ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70459	We are now going to discuss - Final proposal of the Public Sector Register Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 721. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislatives, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the report at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration Davor Ljubanovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70460	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I would like to point out the fundamental reasons for the establishment of this register and then the need to pass this law. The register of public sector employees represents a set of data on employees: civil servants and deputies, officials and public servants, government officials appointed to office in the state body, public service, and judicial officials who are conducted in electronic form primarily to establish a quality and efficient system of centralised salary accounting and human potential management. In addition, the organisation and management of this register is a prerequisite for the successful implementation of a number of measures provided for in the State Administration Reform Strategy. For example, point 5. Simplification and modernisation of administrative operations, electronic administration, simplification of administrative procedures, easier exercise of party rights, and strengthening the role of electronic administration in the development of the economy. A strategy for the development of human potential in the public service, the strategy for the development of electronic administration and the strategy for the development of electronic business. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has classified the establishment and management of this register in the Economic Recovery Programme as one of the measures. In order to implement these measures, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided on 10 June 2010 on the keeping of registers of employees in state and public services and a number of activities have been carried out today. For example, the competent authorities of the state administration have drawn up a functional specification for the register in which the necessary interoperability requirements, hardware and software requirements are installed. Based on this specification, a web application has been developed for the input of data in the test phase and conditions have been provided for the start of data input including the allocation of 3500 smart cards and training of 35 trainers for working with developed application. However, for the full functionality of this register, another additional legal precondition needs to be met. In accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act governing the protection of personal data on natural persons, and the supervision of the collection, processing and use of personal data in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of protecting private life and other human rights and fundamental freedoms in the collection, processing and use of personal data, personal data may only be collected with the consent of respondents or if it is in the public interest or if it is established by law. The legal basis for the collection and processing of personal data on civil servants and tenants has been established since 1994 by the Law on civil servants and tenants and salaries of holders of judicial duties, and now in the 2005 Law on civil servants. However, there is no legal basis for the collection of data and processing of personal data on officials and subsistences in public services. In view of the circumstances, the legal basis for the collection and processing of data is proposed to be established by the Public Sector Register Act. In this context, this law proposes that the Database leaders be any state body and public service that keeps information about their employees. The Ministry of Administration would run a register for the needs of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and public legal authorities, and the Ministry of Justice would be the head of the collection of judicial officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70461	Just a minute. My colleagues and colleagues, I'm gonna make a little precedent. On the gallery is Croatian defender Tihomir Purda, please representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament to welcome him. Thank you. [[Applause.]] Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70462	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the Data Protection Act needs to specify precisely the type of data collected and processed, the way data is collected for data processing purposes, who has the right to access data, during which time data are stored, which measures are taken to protect data, it is proposed to establish those issues by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is also proposed by this law that any person whose data has been entered into the register have the right to request an insight into these data relating to them. What I would like to conclude is that the means of implementation of this law are secured in the 2011 state budget at the Ministry of Finance, and given the activities carried out, the current status of the project is yet to be carried out in order to bring data into the register to be established as soon as possible. In this sense, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70463	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70464	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected by the promoter, colleagues and fellow MPs. Immediately on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club, I can say that the idea of centralising the register of employees in the state administration and public services is not bad, but the proposed law is bad to God. The proposed law is written with the left hand and does not have the basics that such a register must have. But let's take the turn. First, let the motionor explain to us the motives of this bill. It is said in the explanation that the economic recovery programme, hence the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is intended to establish a register of employees in the state administration and public services as a measure of economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, and in the text itself, not a single objective to be achieved by the register itself. There's no sign of what's going on. At the same time, the price of editing the register is 10 million kuna. If we add that this is a collection of registers that already exist in each public body, there is a staff service in each public body, as it used to be called, labour force as it used to be called, today it is human resources or human potentials, and hopefully there is now not only material form, but also in electronic form transferred to the central register costing 10 million kuna. If 10 million contributes to the economic recovery programme, if this investment is a contribution to itself, then it is clear why we have a situation in Croatian society. Instead of saving, we have an investment in non-productive programs. If this, I repeat, adds that no goal is apostrophe, and should be quantified and said, there will be savings in this, whether we will be more efficient in that, then we must really question the well-meaning of the Government of Croatia's proposal to establish a central register. It's about economic reasons. Now let's move on to the essence of the proposal for the collection of data on officials and tenants in the state administration and in the public administration, the sector, which should actually be located in two ministries and in the FINA, one agency. The Constitution states in Article 37 that only the law lays down the objectives and content of the collection of personal data, and in the law, the proposal for a law in Articles 7 and 9 provides that the Government shall determine the content of the data on the register. And the Constitution says that only the law does so, and the Government says give you to the Parliament to decide that I can do so, beyond the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The government does not, therefore, in the proposal itself, reflect the provisions of the Data Protection Constitution, which provides that only Parliament, representatives of citizens, determine the meaning of such registers and their content. But look also at the following situation, three state institutions or ministries and agencies will have aggregated data from that register, and the protection of that data must depend on one man and one body. If we still don't know what the content of this data is, or what's going to be collected, we can only assume that this isn't a completed project, it's the easiest assessment, because I don't want to be mean to the government, and the motion for the government of this law, so I'm going to be gentle and say that they haven't seen all the consequences that can come out of the central register proposed by this law. If, and we must say, we can call for a programme of economic recovery and propose a register of officials, deputies and employees as a reform of the state administration, we cannot pass even the most well-intentioned representatives and the most well-intentioned critics of the government, because the essence of the problem in the state administration is not in the register, but in relation to the very government and the ruling towards the state administration and the construction of the system of the state administration, and in the first place the depolitisation of the state administration. By introducing the register and giving the data from the register into three or two ministries and one agency, it will allow the government, at any moment, to have information on each employee on its desk, according to its findings, and not according to the decision of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament, to further complicate the proposal. So, you don't live off the register even if it's employee registers. It is made up of the idea of the state administration being in a function of development of the Republic of Croatia. The purpose of the state administration is both in service to citizens and legal persons and in the construction of the rule of law, not in political control, and the state administration, even though the political control came from the government itself. So I'm going to go back to the beginning and I'm not going to explain it any further. The idea itself is not bad, it is good to have a register and it already exists in its segments in every state body or state administration or agency or public sector. And it should already be from the human potential's point of view, or as people's potentials are said today, already exist, tendons, schools, experiences, status. Everything that needs to be collected and collected should be in the law, but it exists today. Therefore, this unification cannot cost 10 million, in my humble opinion, nor can it cost 10 million kuna, because if more information is asked, it will be circulated to say so. No employee will be investigated. Therefore, I propose on behalf of the SDP Club that this bill be requalified to go into first reading, as an idea we accept, to check that 10 million kunas are needed now in this situation for the centralisation of the data that already exists and that, according to my assessment again, an unconstitutional provision that the Government will determine which data and contents the register must ensure that the Croatian Parliament, as a representative of the citizens of the law, is doing so in order to protect the possible manipulation of the personal data of civil servants and subsistence and civil servants in the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70465	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70466	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Let me at the very beginning state the position of the HDZ Representatives Club on this bill. The HDZ representative club supports the proposal of the Public Sector Employment Register Act. This legislative project is based on a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the establishment and management of the Register of Employees in State and Public Services, which will cover all civil servants and subsistence and officials and subsistence in public services. It is worth noting here that public services within the meaning of this law include public institutions and other legal persons who are provided with payment funds in the state budget, as well as the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the Croatian Institute for Employment, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Public Institutions, which are provided with funds from the Croatian Health Insurance Fund. The public-legislative authorities within the meaning of this law are state authorities and public services, and as is understood by state authorities, it is taxingly stated in Article 3(1), so point 3 of the law in question, and I do not think that it is necessary to repeat this in this place. The legal basis for the collection and further processing of data on civil servants is also contained in Article 141. The law on civil servants whose provisions and provisions are regulated by the obligation to keep personal eyewitnesses and the central list of civil servants and substitutes. By law, it is proposed that each state body and public service, hence the public-legal body, shall keep data on employees of those bodies and that the Ministry of Administration shall keep a register for the needs of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and public-legal bodies. The Ministry of Justice, based on the provisions of this law, will keep data on judicial officials, and, in accordance with the fact that the Ministry of Justice also performs the tasks of the judicial administration in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Courts. As regards the protection of the data on the register itself, of course, and in particular the provision set out in Article 6 of the proposed law, this has been the case in the previous discussions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In addition, the submission of data from the register shall be decided by the Heads of Public Legal Authorities in which such data and data are kept. The availability of data is absolutely certain, the possibility of abuse should be prevented, limited to the minimum possible measure, but certainly prevented by strict application, by direct application of the Personal Data Protection Act. The case law will cover all public sector bodies, including civil servants and deputies, but also civil servants and deputies in public services, state officials appointed to serve in the public body or public service and judicial officials. I think it is particularly important to stress and point out that this future register or register itself, of course, is not the purpose itself, but will represent not only a mere collection of collected data but also allow proper management of human potentials, and thus a prerequisite for better functioning of the entire public sector. Better functioning of the state administration, better service to citizens and, as we had the opportunity to hear in the opening explanation of the proposing representatives, therefore the basic prerequisite for further affirmation or further strategy of the development of the electronic administration. Therefore, the foothold for a new step in terms of better functioning of the state administration and doubtless that this register will be fulfilled in this regard and the assumptions that the administration is absolutely certainly functioning, to allow it to function in a better way, to make it an even better service for citizens and all those who, within the framework of the state administration, seek the exercise of their rights and to exercise their rights to the public authorities. In that very sense, this law should also be supported. It is certainly one measure in the context of economic development when we talk about better functioning of the state administration, better functioning of the state administration of that segment I would dare say is that important segment so that many of the projects could be realised at the right time and in the right way in the Republic of Croatia. In line with all the above, the HDZ Representatives Club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70467	Thank you. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70468	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. If I had to conclude in six words what I have to say, I'd say, the idea of good, the law not acceptable, pull it back. I didn't consult with my colleague Lek, I read the text and on 11 articles we have at least 12 complaints from the HNS Club, HSU. Our colleagues and colleagues are still going to be correct, and we should say more specifically why we have these and such objections. First of all, an emergency procedure, so law-making by emergency procedure. When I got to the fifth article, then I really asked myself, is that possible? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And we say it's about particularly justified state reasons. As far as I know, Bill Gates has been a billionaire for twenty years, and in 2011, we came up with his inventions and decided by electronic processing to get to the register. It is unacceptable that we are sold particularly important state reasons for the emergency procedure, which is why we are also stealing from such harsh mistakes that our colleague Leko was talking about, so I will not repeat what he has already said. The goal next is which one? The register of public sector employees shall be managed to establish a quality and efficient system of centralised salary and human resources management. When it comes to human resource management, in 2, 3 hours we'll have a law on our benches that we'll try to regulate exactly that matter. It's interesting that this law and the law that follows behind this has almost nothing to do with it. Almost no coordination, we feel that the people who wrote this law didn't even know the people who wrote or wrote this other law. That's not good either. So, always an absolute lack of coordination between individual laws. That's unacceptable. It stands to be possible to apply this law, to spend 10 million kunas. colleagues and colleagues from where we were in 2004? Why didn't we accept it then and go to a register like this, it'd probably be an enormous savings. I'd like to warn you that in 2004, we've set aside 14 billion kunas for the salaries of all government employees. Today, 2011, we stand out 22 billion. So we allocate 8 billion a year more to finance those to whom this register applies. It's one-on-one. I claim that the National Bank allocated an enormous amount of 6.3 billion the day before yesterday, and we only give 8 billion a year for salary financing alone. Who received them, what bodies, what services, with what qualifications, with what purpose, and what have we achieved? We've never really analyzed this House. We've heard on the boards that the register will apply to two 130 to 240 thousand people, up to. So, plus, minus 10 grand. In Croatia, we still do not know how many people work in the state administration or state bodies and public services, plus, minus 10 thousand. I can't accept that. The definition of the public sector is also questionable to us. It would have been better, it would have been more systematic, it would have been more complete if we had included those employees of local and regional self-government. And they live at the expense of the budget whether local or regional. I know that here the purpose is that the state can clearly manage human resources, but I think it would be very good that we can always make one quality partnership between three levels of government, between those who are employed, their qualifications, their salaries and their effects. Of course it's missing. Turns out it's not the public sector, it turns out this law doesn't apply to them. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The content of the data in the register and the collection of documents on employees is prescribed by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia." My colleague Leko said what he was supposed to say. We also disagree with this article. This matter needs to be established by law. The answer also lies in the preceding article. Data from the register are classified data, colleagues classified data. We're asking you if it's the height of the salary to do certain tasks in the state administration, if it can be a secret piece of information. It can't be. Whoever works on these jobs, who's his schoolboy, how many employees do those jobs, can it be classified? So every taxpayer must be able to access that data at any time, whether it relates to local, regional or state administration. Well, that is the essence of the citizens' supervision of our work, of the employment of people, etc., etc. We remember a colleague and a colleague, a scandal from 10 years ago when the government worked for the people who bought the diplomas. Then we remember scandals when many citizens were getting paid in public enterprises, and they were basically working at a party centre for the needs of parties. And Chirac too, Mr. Vice President, I agree, but we shouldn't be running these examples right now, and we have our options to sort things out differently and better. In fact, regarding this data classification, we're afraid of at the HNS-HSU club not to create a new register of defense attorneys of state bureaucracy. Let's not let that happen. Therefore, we at the HNS-HSU Club suggest that this law be withdrawn, that it be done, that it be returned in a completely different form to the parliamentary debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70469	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70470	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen of the Department of Administration, colleagues and colleagues. The HDSSB club will be precisely for a solution, and in connection with this legislative proposal on the Register of Public Sector Employees, so that it is the first reading and that this law is thoroughly completed. In fact, the fact that today, 20 years from the foundation of the Croatian state, we do not know exactly how many civil servants there are, how many public employees there are, is that 230 thousand, 240 thousand, 10 thousand in plus or minus, not known. Although in this country, information and what is invested in information is therefore of high degree and is not at all a problem from ministry to ministry, from agency to agency, from state offices to state offices, state institutions, etc. which has an untold number, something went down last year. Here at the Parliament we discussed the unification of certain agencies, but the remaining seems to me to be about 70 such agencies, offices, committees, etc. in which employees, in particular those in charge, pay almost equal salaries to the ministerial or so on. What is the objective of this legislative proposal? They say it is the goal and that it is actually the implementation of the Programme for Economic Recovery. I imagined an economic recovery by investing in a production activity that brought new profits. The making of the register itself that will cost says under this proposal 10 million kuna does not belong to the Economic Recovery Programme. If what follows after the register, so reducing the state administration, the number of people, and let's be clear and say it out of about 5%, then maybe something would be going on, it would certainly be going according to economic recovery measures, but it doesn't say here. When I talk about informing our country, it's a good example of how. the home offices in the country are not connected by an internet link, e.g. with the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and then reports of the death of some people who are receiving retirement did not come to the right place to stop the payment of non-retirement pensions and from year to year damage to such uninformedness and negligence is close to 100 million kuna for the Croatian state. In the Department of Health, there are data on every employee. Every doctor has his own code, we doctors know it well, under which we are being led and standing on the faxy of every doctor. And not only that, in that hospital information system, there's still an additional code, is there a colleague named Milinkovic? So we're registered, we're all known. This is where the files are mentioned. A little weird, says classified data or files. That word stings me a little bit in the eye about the files. Furthermore, who is in charge of putting together questions and data that will be in the register. We are talking about depolitisation of a state administration that should be depolitized and should be a public service of citizens, of all citizens. Effective, effective, open, transparent. Whether such files, which are said to be the way they are collected and processed, so Article 7 and the right to access data, data storage and data protection measures will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Regulations, not by law, although it seems to me to be in Article 37. The constitution would have to regulate the law passed by the Croatian Parliament. So, what they're going to write in the files, which will be questions asked to employees, the tenants they're going to have to fill out to make sure there's a register of civil servants, public deputies. Is there any doubt, and I think there are some justified ones, that it is, in fact, a politicalisation of the state administration, not a depoliticisation. These days we are witnessing how by secret regulations, I do not know by secret or by any or oral tip of the offices of the Croatian Employment Office, we reduce unemployment. You have all examples and tips from the field but everyone's silent. One tailor in Slavonski Brod was offered a job, and by the way, from Sibinj 7 km, 6.7 km from Slavonski Brod, a waitress in Svilaj was offered a job. A woman is 50 years old, three children. And she said it wasn't that qualification and that the problem of travel is Sibinj, Svilaj and traffic communications. After that, she was removed from the Employment Service and is no longer unemployed. The woman is no longer unemployed. Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! It doesn't count as one of the 340,000 who's looking for a job anymore. And that's the kind of string of cases you have. Look and ask around your offices, in your counties, and you'll see that's how it works. Did the Parliament bring such a regulation? It's not. Or the law, I'm sorry. And who brought that regulation? Whether or not this register, which should be established, will be established in any way you will, and by decision on the management of the employee register, by the government's decision of 10.6.2010, here is a full 8-month commitment until 31 March of this year. However, the obligation is not an obligation unless the law bears the P.Z.E. mark. and he's not wearing it. So that's our internal Croatian thing. Well, just because it's our internal Croatian matter and our Croatian arrangement, our house and our home, I think it's just necessary for the reason that our colleague Leko and Mr. Doric talked about this as a first reading, and, yes, on the proposals and representatives and clubs in the second reading, we arrange this matter in a way that would not be contradictory and that there would be no dispute over the vote of this legislative proposal. I repeat once again that if this is not accepted as a first reading, the HDSSB club will be against this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70471	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70472	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The existing legal regulations are not regulated anywhere to collect and process data on officials and tenants in public services. As regards civil servants, the legal basis for the collection and further processing of data is contained in the provision of Article 141(1). Law on civil servants. Since the Personal Data Protection Act is prescribed that personal data can only be collected with the consent of respondents or if this is in the public interest or is established by law, the need to adopt a special law which in a uniform way would regulate the collection and processing of data on all civil service employees and public services. In this respect, it is proposed to adopt a Public Sector Employment Register Act and to prescribe that each state body and public service shall keep information about their employees and that the Ministry of Administration shall keep a register for the needs of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of the state bodies, i.e. public services. As the national authorities, i.e. public services, officials of the state, are also proposed to lead the data on state officials by the state authorities or public services in which they are appointed to serve, and to have the Ministry of Justice as the Head of the database on judicial officials. In view of the fact that the Data Protection Act provides for the possibility for the controller of a personal data collection to be able, on the basis of a contract of a particular transaction relating to the processing of data within the scope of his work, to entrust the data to another legal or natural person, it is proposed that the data processor determines by decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. By deciding on the management of the register of employees in state and public services as of 10 June 2010, the business of keeping the register was entrusted to the Financial Agency by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the proposed law, and in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down the content of the data on the register and the collection of documents on employees, the way they are collected and processed, the right to access data, data storage and data protection measures. For this reason, and given that the proposed law will implement the established measure of the establishment of a register of public sector employees under the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of Croatia, I support the adoption of the Law on the Register of Public Sector Employees as well as the proposed amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70473	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70474	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning of the presentation, I will stress that I will not support this bill, because I believe that this bill is very flawed, unarranged and that in principle it is not clear what it is intended to achieve, and I do not understand how the programme of recovery, the economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is considered at all as one of the measures means economic recovery. The more the funds necessary for the implementation of this law are assessed, the more it says that this measure will cost 10 million kuna. All those who have had the opportunity to work in the state administration or in the public administration know very well that every body of public administration, each ministry has its own register, and that it has a well available and accurately available with all the data, the number related to the number means not only the official, but also all the employees, as well as the employees, as well as the employees and the tenants. All that data is very easy, in my opinion, can be summed up in one place, and I don't understand in principle what exactly 10 million kunas will cost, in order for this law to be implemented. It is also not clear why we are passing a law whose details will in fact be defined by a government regulation, which is why it is necessary that the government regulation, rather than the law passed in the Croatian Parliament, determine what the register will contain, that is, what the personal file of each employee will look like. The economic recovery measures of the Republic of Croatia also set out that this measure should be implemented by 31 March 2011, and in this sense it is not clear why the articles of this law do not define that the register will be drawn up by 31 March 2011. Why do we have the opportunity to read this in the assessment of the situation, but we do not have it as one of the obligations that the Government and the competent ministry of the administration are obliged to implement by that deadline? Does this mean that the deadline will then be exceeded, and that we may be spending some 10 million kunas again as some measure of that god's economic recovery, and we won't actually get anything out of it. It is too sensitive a problem for it to be fully considered, i.e. the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, without any insight, or supervision, so to speak to the Croatian Parliament, and I do not think it is a measure worthy of a democratic society. By mentioning the defence registry, it seems to me that in some way the Government has quite double criteria when it comes to the defence register compared to the register of employees in the public administration bodies, i.e. in the public sector of employees and employees, in the whole story, and in any case, I would like the applicant to explain exactly what 10 million kunas are actually going to be spent on, when we know very well that public authorities already have all the information related to it, and these are mostly in the secretariats of the ministry, or in the secretaries of those bodies, they have files of all employees, there are all data related to it, there are meanings of the information services that can unite that data in one unique way and in the context of their work, because that is the end and their job, so I am interested in what exactly these 10 million kunas will be spent. Will the Government of the Republic of Croatia hire an information company that will develop some kind of special program that will cost 10 million kuna? It is in this law that we cannot see, and we do not know what we will give approval for if we vote for this law, and I personally, as I said at the very beginning, will not support this law, but I think it was the duty of the motionor, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Administration to make it a little clearer. So this law has a lot of holes, I don't see that it's by any measure of economic recovery, it's something that should be a normal function of any administration, responsible administration that has a reliable register of all its employees, or that it has an accurate insight into what it pays and where it pays, and I don't see any reason why we support this kind of superficial law in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70475	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70476	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are in the immediate process of the Proposal for a Law on Registers of Public Sector Employees, whose adoption, I will immediately say, absolutely support. The adoption of this law, as has been said, and as stated in the explanation, is among other things the result of the objectives contained in the Economic Recovery Programme, and I will say this specifically in the field of public administration, as one of a series of measures therefore envisaged to achieve the rationalisation of the public administration system, and to increase efficiency in the provision of public services, so in the economic recovery programme, the specific authority of the public administration... Therefore, for the implementation of the envisaged objectives set out in 15 or 20, these measures and activities that will contribute, as I have said, to the rationalisation of the public administration system, and to the increase of its efficiency. [[You don't understand.]] In particular, as defined in Article 1 of the Law, it shall be governed by the establishment, establishment and keeping of a register of employees in the public sector, relating to civil servants and deputies, officials and deputies in public services, civil servants appointed to office in the public body or public service, and judicial officials. So their number, as is said, is estimated at around 240 thousand. So this law is actually a legal basis for the collection and processing of data that will contain this register. It was also said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by a provision of the article, i.e. point 2 of the decision on the management of the register of employees in state and public services since 10 June 2010, entrusted the business of managing the information system of the register to the financial agency and is now proposed to Article 5(2) that the processing of data is determined by the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, as specified, the Government must adopt it within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Through discussions on committees, above all on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, several inaccuracies have been observed in the proposed norms and provisions and are proposed to amend them with concrete amendments. I think the amendments will undoubtedly contribute to the clarity of the statements and the quality of the law, so I should also personally accept them. I don't want to be too long, I think it's almost all about this law. For these reasons, I will support, I repeat, the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70477	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Final Proposal for a Law on the Register of Public Sector Employees. I would say that it is not all so black and that it is not a priority to reject this final bill and say that it is bad, that it does not lead to anything because in itself this register is not a key measure of economic recovery, it is neither presented nor presented but is a measure needed as one of the measures for the economic recovery programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, this system of public sector employees will also be made a register that will introduce order to see exactly what the data is needed in the public sector of employees, which will be beneficial to both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the restoring ministries and all public services to which this register of employees brought here today in the Croatian Assembly. An effective and quality system and a way of calculating salaries, and a way to track employees in terms of and the possibility of further progress, this is one law in which we adopt a register, and later we will discuss the Law on State and Public Servants. One personal file does not necessarily mean that it is entered into the privacy and personality of the data to be used in this register rather than above all to establish the exact number of people working in public services, but also all those data that will be needed in some further steps ahead of us when Croatia becomes an EU member. I am also an advocate and that such a register should be brought not only to public service employees in local and regional (regional) self-government because we are witnessing to increase the number of employees in some local administration and self-government units in a way that does not have full control in that system so that in certain counties, let's say here in Osijek-Baranja County, where the government has been able to employ for several years only a person who is a member of that party, and all of them can be on hold because they allegedly do not meet the conditions. If such a register were also adopted for those units of local regional and regional self-government we would have control over what are transparent conditions and what are the criteria that can be drawn from this personal file that any employee, whether it is, so this is a public sector, it would be a local, regional and regional sector, we would know and we would introduce order. First of all, because these costs burden the state, and then it turns out that the government is not helping these units of local self-government, and it's essentially the opposite of political thanks getting jobs, and then it turns out that the government of the Republic of Croatia is guilty. And this is one measure that is a measure of economic recovery, and if we were to introduce order and into this system other than where we are today passing this final bill, if we were to introduce order and into the local system I think it would be more just, more useful than these laws and I think we would benefit first of all from the Republic of Croatia, and thus indirectly to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70479	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70480	Dear counterpart Salapic, you are absolutely wrong when you claim that this will be any measure of economic recovery because there will be no measure of economic recovery. On the contrary, this will be a measure that will additionally burden the state budget with a amount of 10 million kuna for something that we do not basically know what money will be spent on. Secondly, we must trust not only you on the word but all colleagues and colleagues from the ruling parties and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that personal files will not penetrate the meaning of the secrecy of the data and therefore raises the question why it is not defined by this law but will be defined by the Government's regulation which will be the content of these personal files. I think it could easily be solved in a way that accurately prescribes an article of the law, which will include a personal record. Because you obviously have that information, but we don't have that information from the opposition. And the third thing, paradoxically, is that this law would according to the economic recovery measures should be implemented by March 31st, and one of the provisions of the law says that the government will make this register within a month of the date of entry into force of this law, which is still of the meaning of that term, i.e. it will probably be anywhere until the end of April. Well, I think you should pay attention to such little things. It may be petty, but it's paradoxical and contradictory.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70481	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70482	My colleagues, Holly, I don't think they should be petty when it comes to laws that obviously intend to introduce order into a particular system. Effective and transparent management of the public sector register system is one of the positive measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not one of the key but one of the economic recovery measures. Because if you don't have the data that's in one register, and it's all about all the employees who work in the public sector, then we're missing. 10 million kuna is the cost which is already provided, will not be now additional insurance but is already provided, but it is the cost that goes in this year, and will bring advantages for the years ahead. First of all, by entering the EU, the Republic of Croatia. It's one of the laws that is a prerequisite and such measures. So everything shouldn't be so black and I don't see anything wrong that the data that will be requested in the personal register will be passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I don't see any evil intentions, and I don't see any reason why the government would be looking for any information in this register that would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I don't see any reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70483	Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, an esteemed colleague would have just replicated what he said was relevant to the replica of an esteemed colleague, and he also mentioned it in his personal discussion, commenting in fact on Article 7 and what he regulates in relation to even the elements of the anti-constitution. In particular, Article 7 regulates the content, which will be found in the register and indicates that this will be done, i.e. precisely specified by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The anti-constitutional elements mentioned by some colleagues are absolutely falling away because of the above mentioned article 37. The Constitution is not determined by content but by protection and supervision. Therefore, the protection and supervision of personal data as constitutional and legal matter are laid down and regulated by a special law. Article 7 refers only to the content, so exactly what will be in a particular register for certain employees. I also replicate that some colleagues have spoken of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation which will determine the content of a secret document. Well, the regulation is a document adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is published in the "National Journal", which we have access to on the Internet, and in this sense it will contain only the contents of what should be in the file, and other laws, that is, Article 37, which regulates and protects personal data, are laws which are in force and which regulate this constitutional legal matter or already regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70485	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70486	Col. Tomljanovica has now well explained the intention of the legislator of this bill, so I believe that after this clarification and the regulation that the government will adopt will not be counter-constitutional because of the arguments made by Mr. Tomljanovic that counterpart Holly will change her mind and support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70487	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70488	Thank you very much. You and Mr. Tomljanović mention Article 7 but do not mention Article 9 which states that the government regulation will regulate the content of the data in the register. That's what we're talking about. What content? What is the content of this content discussed in Article 9? We don't know that. Furthermore, when you were talking about HDSSB, I guess the whole state knows, and I hope you're also aware that the HDZ membership card is a business ticket for both state and public enterprises and at the local level. Furthermore, I myself should tell the witness here that HDZ's chairman of the board of directors of Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardic's hospital has forbidden me to be on duty at the Brod Hospital because I am not a member of the HDZ. Here's how you know that. Not only me but also Mr. Mirk Duspari, the mayor of Slavonski Brod, under contract to provide services. So that's your justice and that's what you're complaining about, and in fact, you've networked the entire state into an octopus of HDZ's identity card, or how the Slavonski Brod tells us about the prices for applying to work at the HDZ firm of between 5 and 10 thousand euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70489	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70490	Thank you very much, Vice President. As soon as we mentioned that order should be introduced into the local system, it was heard immediately in the assembly that HDZ's identity cards would be State Service exits. I don't think the Croatian Parliament should be threatened by anyone or anything. Not you Boro, I'll go to you now. I said it was heard in the MPs and in the counseling benches, which is not okay. I told Mr Grubisic that order should be introduced in the local administration, that the register of employees in the local administration that then binds to the state indirectly because a new cost is being created in local units, I mentioned the HDSSB because of alleged information coming from the Osijek-Baranja County, and any information should be used in favour of a legal solution that some illogicalities will prevent. We have issued a ban on employment in state and public services, a law that we will discuss later on is that there will be a transfer when it is necessary to achieve assistance in some of the state services or public administration offices, which is also a reduction of costs, and that units of local self-government are certainly burdening the state with new jobs without control, and I said that this is present in our county, which is correct and verifiable. Therefore, there is no need to be threatened and no need to react immediately to something that is negative. It is a proposal that is positive and a proposal which, like this register, which is proposed today, will introduce order into the public sector and order should be introduced into the local sector. Now that it doesn't turn out today is HDSSB, God forbid it's gone, so it'll be us, so we'll do better for our county. And I'm sure the debate was in the context of a positive proposal for this and a law that we'll probably pass in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70491	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70492	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. All these years, the last six, seven years, the state administration has been up and running. And what the hair has now made, and what I ask nicely, rather than even the bill, to see how many employees there are, or how many authorities have hired them. Please, in which the country in which the reform of the administration is before it is then necessarily continuing to reform the judiciary or reverse reform of the judiciary and the reform of the administration, because one without the other cannot, first people are employed, and then eventually they go to count how many there are. So where's the meaningful job? What is the proposal of the Public Sector Register Act in the first place? Isn't it a duty in every public body to have data on how many employees there are and to form a register, unique with networking? That's no problem. And you can't believe that any kind of law, whatever content is in the law of any substance is determined by the famous sentence "By the program of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia" and then goes on etc. And with this economic recovery programme, the state will spend neither less than 10 million kuna. There's already been talk of people hiring. That's not what we need to tell the citizens here, because they have daily experiences about it. But people with VSS, educated, young people, eager for work, and eager at the end of the day for a career in the administration, some administrative bodies, appear so premeditated, and it's not a rare question, and it's not even far-fetched, and who sent you here and whether you belong to the HDZ. He says no one sent us. So they were sent away and sent away with a mockery of pity. And so that's where it came from, that the government was going to see who she hired. People show up from customs every day. There, please, in one room somewhere, three bosses of something and some sector are, that no one knows who or what. So Mr. Barisic stayed and the methods remained the same. And you can still see a little analysis of whose individual body leaders are now on the defendant's benches. There are the most employees in such sectors. That was one extra, normal activity. So that nepotism and employment on such a basis cost the state dearly. However, when we see what the salaries of civil servants and tenants are, because there is one healthy core, one practically engine that pulls out the entire administration and which are generally underpaid with high professional equipment, long-term work experience very poorly paid. The sum of all this is that we really have a large army of clerks, officials, but weakly paid, unmotivated and generally frightened. The obligation was long ago, when this existing law was passed to ensure that by the date of entry into force of a special law governing salaries and other material rights of civil servants and regulations governing the classification of posts and salaries of depositors remain in force of the provisions of Articles 108 to 112. Law on civil servants and tenants and implementing regulations. However, the specific law on salaries has not been passed until today, and the range of coefficients between civil servants was up to 2008 and that of type I jobs ranging from 1.05 coefficients to 3.5, by amending the 2008 law for the same technical provision. It can't be. So today we were expecting to have exactly the kind of bill that will also motivate officials and tenants. Of course, there will be much more to this than this second Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. Therefore, we really don't need a law like this. You don't need to spend money, 10 million kunas in times of crisis because all this can be done without the law, but it has to be done so far. And if we take a closer look at the positive regulations and even certain regulations, it was even a commitment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70493	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70494	Thank you very much. Mrs Antičević-Marinović, you have offered me this replica, mentioned the Customs Administration and expressed some doubt that there are too many employees there and that perhaps you should do a certain examination of this way of employment and reduction. I'd like to use this replica here as a possibility because I just got one very good news. During last year, more specifically in October last year, a reorganisation of customs duties was launched where some new measures were proposed due to the reorganisation and efficiency, i.e. the reduction of the number of employees and the abolition of individual exposures. We, as Assembly representatives of Sisak-Moslavina County and myself, together with the Mayor of Kutina and Sisak, struggled to keep customs offices in Kutina and Sisak because we believe that this is extremely important for our businessmen and craftsmen and that this is of course extremely important and because of the charge of the budget and I must say that right now I have received a reply from the customs administration and our Chamber of Commerce that our arguments are respected and that the customs administrations in Sisak and Kutina remain what I welcome. So whenever it comes to this reorganization, rationalization must be taken care of in all aspects, not only to look paper, but to live real life on the ground. And here's another thank you to all those who have accepted my arguments and my colleagues to put customs out in Kutina and Sisko to rest, it's important for our end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70495	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. You're not that, now you're that, you're too late. So I'm looking at you all... How I didn't notice, and I look at you all the time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I must have been...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70496	Mr. President, things exist whether you noticed them or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70497	Yes, I must've been.....the speakers speak in the same voice./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70498	This colleague you're talking about somewhere needs to stay in the reorganisation, and I'm glad to hear what you're talking about. But I'm also talking about something and why I mentioned customs, because it's an eclectic example of just hiring by grandmother and uncles. Please, according to the data, not to my own, but to the Independent Customs Union, people were first assigned who would be head of the outpost, and then they were physically working on such houses or houses where they could work, and for years they'd been receiving salaries and about those with almost the highest coefficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70499	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70500	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Paradoxically, this government in 2011 reveals the benefits of information technology and electronic business. This law therefore provides that an eyewitness will be kept or kept in electronic form. Well, please, in the 21st century, we're not going to take that notary that's going to write registers with it. So what's the current eyewitnesses in the departments and government bodies? I guess they're electronic. And I don't know, this is really paradoxical, as is paradoxical and absurd that this law is considered part of an economic recovery. So why, if the government has already discovered the benefits of information technology and e-commerce, it has not, for example, tried to enable citizens to submit tax returns by electronic means. Why she did not make them a web application that would allow them to calculate tax, etc., prevent traffic in tax administrations, prevent needless absence from jobs or other obligations, prevent pressure on public traffic in the day of handover of tax returns, and ultimately really effectively and quickly enable the processing of these tax returns. However, it did not occur to the government that it might be one of the measures of economic recovery and improvement of business in the Republic of Croatia. What effect this law will have, for example, on the state administration's attitude towards citizens. It's a suggestion that the state administration really serves citizens, not to terrorize them when they hand over some documents, so you don't have a housekeeper, so you don't have a six-month-old birth certificate or you have this, you don't have that, so all of this can be done so that everything can be pulled out of one place and that unkind clerk on the other side of the counter allows citizens to get their needs and jobs done faster. But the government didn't think of that. The government also did not remember that there is something called the e-Croatian Office which is now and has a function of improving the information system in the Republic of Croatia, the state administration, enabling and e-commerce, etc. No, the government has no confidence in its own office, so the article of this law says that a data processing officer will be subsequently determined even if it is quite logical and clear that it should be the e-Croatian Office. Because who knows more about IT and e-commerce than the e-Croatian Office? At least that makes sense, but there's nothing logical here. We have several reasons why this law came before us and that it will introduce order into the databases of civil servants. So it implies that there's a mess, that now it's a mess and that it takes a special legal solution to find out who in the state administration is working now. Well, that's tragic. It's not paradoxical and absurd. That's tragic. The fact is that there are eyewitnesses and central lists of civil servants. But it takes a new law and a new register with a cost of 10 million kunas to network something that already exists because the government itself admits it in this clarification of the law and in the assessment of the situation. The law is extremely creamy, because these deadlines, deadlines are impossible. The law says one thing, in the assessment of the condition of the other, and it's all so creamy that it's as if someone was doing it because it has to be done, because that's what he ordered someone from above. And right now, this law itself symbolizes a mess that rules in the state administration. We haven't even got any score on why it costs ten million kunas. It's a systematic error of our laws, because in the assessment of the state or usually just toss some number without a nearer explanation, without objective evidence that someone actually made some predictions, modelling, cost assessment, etc. So, behind this, we can suspect that it's a volunteerism, that a certain job will be set up, because if those intentions were gone, then the government would entrust this whole job to its office that has behind it and proven success, which is the Central Office for e-Croatia. Otherwise, if the Central Office of e-Croatia is not needed, then also abolish it within the measures of economic recovery as you have abolished or redistributed people from different other agencies, as necessary, as unnecessary. This law may have good intentions, but it certainly deserves at least another reading if not two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70501	Thank you. Replications. Ms. Representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70502	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Franic, here's what you encouraged me to think, which is that you said the government discovered information technology. Well, obviously she didn't find out. It was almost amazing to me when I saw this bill, when I realized how naive I was, that we don't have a register of public administration employees, that we don't know who's working here, how many years these people, what profiles we're going to need, who we don't need, who we need, who's going to retire, that we don't have all that together. This is another proof that this government and this government, under the leadership of this government, has no strategy at all to go to, what needs and where it is directed and what it all goes to together. And that was the thought that followed me all the time as we discussed this law. I believe that these data there only needs to be put on one pile. And that's probably going to be done now, but it's elemental. So when we do something, we have to have some elements to go on. It's amazing to me that we don't have it, and it was obviously employed with a fist and a hat, by grandma and by uncles, as it was said before, and then it led to this confusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70503	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70504	Well, actually, this is some sort of Schrödinger quantum dilemma. At the same time, we have and we do not, because somewhere in this law, it is claimed that provisions on the management of personal eyewitnesses and the central census of civil servants cease to apply. So, it was prescribed that there were eyewitnesses and the central list of civil servants, only the question of whether he was ever guided and how he was guided and whether it was all one huge schlamper that all of this had to be abolished, so he started over again with some kind of register in electronic form as if these were not in electronic form and they were. So at the same time we have and we don't have exactly like that Schrödinger quantum cat and dead and alive at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70505	That's interesting with this Schrödinger quantum cat. It's just, now you can see that she, the lyrics of that song, who has you, doesn't have a philosophical background. Who has you, who doesn't have you, who doesn't have that dream, right? Who dreams of kissing you, and you have no idea. You see what philosophy and poetry is when they join together in a joint venture. There is another replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70506	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Franic, you are surprised that in one law we pass in 2011 he prescribes the obligation to use electronic data processing. I think the answer is very simple. In the past 15 years, the first job was to hire those who have somewhat mastered numbers and letters, and now we can eventually hire someone who knows how to turn on the computer, and the rest we'll solve the outsourcing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70507	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70508	I have to agree, because the government has already proven its incompetence with information technology so many times, it's amazing. Although there is even this e-Croatian Office that has long pointed to the benefits of open Sources, and Linux technology, which is free, which is better than many platforms used in the ministries and bodies of the state administration, I suppose it would not bring about any commissions or similar marifettes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70509	Thank you. And another individual application, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70510	In this Croatian Parliament, we had a lot of strange laws that we discussed, but this seems to me to be a rational law that might need to be framed, so it should fall under that supreme strangeness. The law therefore lays down the need to establish a register of public sector employees. It presupposes that so far in the public sector we really don't know how many people we have, but then somewhere in the explanation of Article 10 you said that we do know maybe because we have some records, someone's somehow leading it, so we have something. That's great, but somehow we don't get along in numbers as much as 250, 60, 70, so there's about 10 thousand missing, there's not a lot of them, and then there's a law to figure out how many of us are working in that public sector at all, but it's interesting that then all of you, I believe that all those who work in the public sector get paid, and I guess it was meant to do it in a way that those who get paid there are doing it, and then it could still figure out how many of them are there. So a strange law which, if one is true, if we have these registers that will cease to apply when the institutions are established, in the light of Article 10, it turns out that one basic mathematical action, which is called addition, would add up to 10 million kuna to you. I think a math store like that will add up everything we have anywhere would be worth 12 million kunas, so please correct those 10 to the 12 and a half, so it's not exactly round 10, let's make it 12 and a half million kuna. I think a law like this deserves to be the ones doing it adequately paid, so they have a little more money. The second thing in this explanation is why the law is passed to determine how many of us there are in the state administration, why the law is passed, then that's another strange explanation, because it says that, at least that's what you said, it's going to get us a better functioning of the state administration because we're going to have a list in one place. It doesn't make sense that if we write down all the ones that we're doing at the state administration, then the state administration will work better. I have somehow been convinced that in the reform of the state administration, with the reform of the state administration, then the state administration will work better. The list says that there are 250 or 260 of us I doubt there will be a better functioning of the state administration. But then it is also claimed that this is one of the laws that will contribute to, and which is one of the measures of economic recovery in the Republic of Croatia. One more... The explanation, since I am the number and list of what we are about to establish by this law, will lead to economic recovery, or will be one of the measures that will lead to economic recovery, somehow when it comes to economic recovery, at least I think so, but at least that's how most of our citizens think when we're economically recovered, then maybe the bread will be cheaper, then the fuel might be cheaper, then our wages might be bigger, and then maybe we'll live better. [[You don't understand.]] I doubt that the exact list of people who work in the state administration will contribute to a higher salary and that we will have cheaper food and that we will live better. But also when one of these unmistakable laws determines that we should be summed up as many of us in the state administration, when it is said to be this way, that it will be the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the regulation prescribes the content of data in the register and the collection of documents on employees, and the most terrifying, in brackets, personal files, the way they collect and process and the right to access data, data storage, etc. So you passed the law, you could bring it orally, suggest it here, because everything else will have to be passed by a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This when you say we'll collect the data I assumed, and I guess the employee information should be the name, last name, professional cook, job, where he works, years of internships, etc., but what he says will be the content of the data and the collection of documents that we need to give, or employees in the state administration, and then in parentheses it'll be a personal file, you know what personal files look like to me? It seems to me it should be some kind of police business. So are those who work at the state administration suspicious people that they need them in this way with personal files somewhere to support that they have some right to then something, to work in the state administration. Personally, I think this is one dangerous thesis that every employee in the state administration will have their own personal file with still undefined contents of that data that they are obliged to allow to have someone with them in the way that they're supposed to be here. So, I think that one law that's basically based on what's here to read contains a basic mathematical function, and that's to sum up what we have to figure out how many of us there are and it costs 10 million kunas along with these qualifications that it'll all contribute to the better functioning of the state administration or that it'll be one of the measures of economic recovery I think it's even from the government of the Republic of Croatia too naive to push it so hard and it'll all be so wonderful, great and wonderful. A law that is disgraced and which needs immediate withdrawal from the procedure. Assemble these people as many as there are, do not take away those personal data that can be used for other purposes because they are not suspected of having their own files but are honest people who want to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70511	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Commissioner Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70512	Yes, you say colleague, and you wonder how this bill can contribute to economic recovery. The fact is that Croatia has very unpleasant and not much luck with registers. That's what we're sure of. But who's gonna do these jobs? This will be done by people with high professional training in individual ministries with a salary of 2 to 3,000 kuna. And where will the state spend that 10 million kuna? Please see Article 5. – The data processing officer in the register shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It will most likely receive most of the cake, if not all, of course as in the usual public procurement process that is in place in Croatia. I hope he'll be interrupted soon. Thus, this person will recover well, well economically. She's probably already famous.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70513	Thank you. And we have a second replica, it's the esteemed representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70514	Dear Mr Denona, a colleague of Denona, you also spoke of this segment of personal data that it's amazing that the government doesn't actually know the personal data of people working in the state administration despite the fact that the government has issued the OIBs to them, etc. And the question arises on what basis were they employed? For example, did they have to write their own résumé? You have discovered essentially a notorious fact that the Government does not know of something called a European résumé format, i.e. a European Curiculum Vitae format, which probably every agile entrepreneur asks of its potential employers and existing furniture to fill in. So, and that's something that can be loaded without even a problem, if not from E-Croatia then from the Ministry of Science's website and it shouldn't be any data that needs to be mentioned specifically in the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70515	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70516	When I said it was one bad law, then I also thought about what you were talking about. Because, look, Article 6 of the Explanatory states that an officer, a deputy and an official will have the right to the service of those who keep us, and his records for data management will require insight into the data concerning him. Why would an officer ask to have an insight into the information that applies to him? Once I give up my data that's needed, it means I'm tall, I have so much expertise, I have to do these jobs, I have so many years, I have to look into it later when I know what I've given. It's obvious that there's something more to be done in those files, and then I'm supposed to look into that file to see what's been upgraded from what I voluntarily agreed to get into that file. So I'm saying that this is how the law is defined one I would say the law that she might have run or where that record should be kept in some other services, not as it's written here. And yes, colleague Anticevic, it is certain that this information will be determined by, which will guide that data, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, of course, even here, it's written somewhere that those who are authorized to keep that data then to those who do so clearly that they will not do it themselves, they can give permission to have insight into and assume classified, or secret information that is guaranteed that some documents do not come out very much in the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70517	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Honorable Davor Ljubanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70518	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives and MPs. Here I will try briefly to look back on the name of the promoter on what has been presented today and further reasons to change the perception of the law itself, and especially what can be said is that if, and it was obvious that for certain colleagues, i.e. for respected MPs and advocates, they may have come from such reasoning and perhaps some wrong conclusions. So I'm going to try it in some way in this final statement and look back at it. What may have been the most serious objection to the legal text itself is the one, but it was answered by the esteemed representative Tomljanovic, so I think about the decision that the government determines by a special regulation all the elements provided for in the law. What I would especially like to point out is that motives, additional motives that were not sufficiently explained in this introductory section, for the law I initially explained, is that the establishment of this register directly or indirectly still has additional objectives other than the central accounting of salaries and the establishment of a central central way, the central system of human potential management. In fact, we, or the government, have information about every employee. In state services, it is prescribed by law on civil servants and there are those registers and, of course, most of them, if not all lead in electronic form. However, as they were established, it is very difficult to connect these data. Therefore, for each of these officials, wages and salaries are paid, and they are also known, but there is no pooled data in one place. And that's why we know how many civil servants there are but when you say on a few days. It is possible to connect, separate, enter a service, exit certain services of individual bodies, agencies, etc. How you count depends on how you count who you put in which category these differences can occur. But those officers are somewhere safe, so there's no doubt about it. The hardest job now, and you'll do that when you ask experts in IT is the hardest job to connect all the data or all the bases that already exist and that have been done in different systems. And unfortunately, it has its own price. But this price that we specifically mention here, these 10 million kunas, I'm going to try to further say what these funds are for, is that price we have to pay to speed up business. And that's why it's an economic recovery measure and these are these indirect benefits from the register, which is that every official can get the first and basic address of the e-mail. So, how in one place when you have to first connect the data to assign them, that's what the distinguished representative said e-Croatian, the role of e-Croatian, and that's why we included e-Croatian in this, they gave basic specifications of interconnecting interoperability to make this the basis for individual officials being able and trained to communicate with citizens later on. It's the first prerequisite to actually achieve that communication. Then, another role of this register is to assign certain rights to certain officials, public officials, so as to the state and the public, which they will have in relation to individual registers. Therefore, which these rights stem from their doing jobs will create the preconditions to exchange these data as said in the debate why there is no Internet connection between the public administration offices and individual funds, for example the HZMO was mentioned. Why isn't e-Croatia doing this? E-Croatia is a small office, but the Financial Agency Act stipulates that FINA is responsible for the state of affairs. So there is a law that determines who should do the job. What I would say here, so the cost of 10 million kuna, comes from the specificity of the register. Of course, they would be exaggerated if it were a simple register and a list of all the officials. It's absolutely true. However, this is about these broader effects and a wider reach which will ultimately create secure, speed up business, create faster administration, save time for citizens and introduce the possibility, it is a practical life-longening of that principle which, in the new Law on General Administrative Procedure of the Single Administrative Place. Without a single management post, we cannot achieve this, or without this register, a unique administrative place where the demands of citizens will be submitted electronically. they will be able to be identified electronically and on the other hand they will have the security to know that their request will come to a designated official who is qualified for this, they will know what kind of official it is and what its powers are in relation to the registers that exist and who run public services in general. So these are some additional reasons which are not unfortunately stated in the reasoned, so I believe they led to these false notions of what the register should be. Here's how it would have been what might have been further explained. As far as expenses are concerned, there's still enough to go on. Since these are broader effects and it is not just about a mere register, it is necessary to obtain appropriate computers, servers, etc., then it was necessary to buy licences for a certain additional use of additional system software in order to drive it all, develop an application solution, introduce there is now one of the critical moments of costs so-called establishment of a system. PCI is a public key system, security. That's what's important and what's expensive. The protection of, unfortunately, personal data, which is one of the purposes of this law, the price of that protection is quite high, but we avoid that objection to running any files. Why those whose data is kept must have access to that data for at least two reasons. One is the imperfection of those who enter these data into the system, so a mistake may occur that will have a significant impact on their rights or obligations. Therefore, if the date of entry into the service or any date has been incorrectly entered, the date of entry into the service, etc. These people will be denied according to their own rights which belong to them according to their regulations. Another thing is that it prevents any potential for malicious input of false data. It is this system that contributes transparency, not that someone would keep a file in the old sense of the word files that are secret and you can't approach, but this is exactly one measure of transparency, openness when there is data that all those whose data are that those whose data are being kept are at all times able to reach them, check and react if these data are incorrectly entered. Since some 3.5 thousand people should enter these data because more than 2,000 900 institutions whose data will be pooled in one place are working. Three thousand 500 such smart cards that will be accessed by the base bear the appropriate cost, and support these officers who will enter data through the so-called so-called. One help centre or help desk or call center as it is called here is also costing a certain amount of funds. And that would be the cost structure for setting up this register that I believe, or I don't believe, but I'm sure, and the government is behind it that it will definitely speed up business and reduce these problems that exist now. It is that when you hand over documents in one place, one service, that this interconnection will create a prerequisite to just exchange these data and that citizens no longer need to when they have handed over a document or that it was created within a service, they will no longer have to run around from the counter to the counter, but they will only be able to call or these officers will be able to simply have the right to do so. Not every official can verify every data that has the right to do so will be able to verify these data and will not have to ask citizens for the same documents or data. I am convinced that it also contributes to economic recovery, saves time primarily for those who do not want to deal with the administration, but needs to achieve that goal set out in the State Administration Reform Strategy, which must be applied to public administration, which is the administration as a service to citizens and other business entities, that the administration is moving towards them and that it actually encourages them and informs them, rather than vice versa that they must waste time asking the administration for what it already belongs to them. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70519	Thank you. And we have three corrections of incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70520	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed Mr. Secretary of State to mention e-Croatia in a PDF document of the proposal of this law or an explanation. e-Croatia may have been involved in this, but there's no explanation for it, and that's the schlamper I'm talking about. If the false perception was due to an explanation, why was that argument not better written? Why wasn't it better explained and costs. e-Croatia may be small, but it's higher than FINA. It would be logical for her to run and coordinate jobs, not Finna. And finally, at the Ministry of Science, you already have one such functional mega database of all scientists, all faculty employees and institutes with electronic document management where you can see at which point who had such a document and in which state of resolution. Why didn't you contact them?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70521	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70522	I am correcting the alleged State Secretary, in your final statement here you have found that an additional explanation is needed to change perceptions. I think that's all he's saying is that what we're talking about today is bad law, because the law when something is determined then doesn't even need an additional explanation to change perception. The law itself if it is written in quality is enough to understand this perception as the legislator wanted, not to try to explain with additional explanations what is wrong with this written law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70523	And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70524	Thank you very much. We heard in the final address of the Secretary of State that the costs of establishing the register would be 10 million kuna due to the specificity of the register. That's not true, or it's not possible at this point to specify that number at all. Why can't we talk about the price exactly? That's why it bothers me, and you should have indicated that it would be top 10 million because we don't know the content of the data in the register. Look at Article 7, we don't know what's going to be in the collection of documents, we don't know how to collect, we don't know how to process data, we don't know the right access to data, we don't know how to store data, what protection measures will apply. All of this will be made clear by the Government only in its regulation. How can we know all these details and exactly how much will it cost?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70525	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70526	We move to the Final Proposal of the Public Sector Register Act, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 721 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Businessman and the political system. Mr Davor Ljubanovic, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70527	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70528	Amendment 1 to Article 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70529	The applicant accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70530	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 2 to Article 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70531	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70532	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Amendment 3 to Article 6?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70533	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70534	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment 4 to Article 8?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70535	And that amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70536	Thank you very much. An integral part of the proposal has been accepted. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Register of Public Sector Employees. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority, 79 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 26 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70537	Moving to point 4. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, first reading, P.Z. No. 719 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Edmond Miletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70538	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The current Law on civil servants was passed in 2005 and when we talk about the reasons for its change, so there are reasons why it took place during its implementation, which we have seen need to change it, we can place them in three main groups. First, this is a law relating to the conclusion of Chapter 23, it contains procedural provisions which regulate the specific administrative procedure and therefore the provisions of this law need to be aligned with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Furthermore, as I said, it is necessary to remove the shortcomings observed in the application of the law so far. Thirdly, government documents such as the Strategy for Development of Human Potentials, Action Plan, the Economic Recovery Programme sets out priorities concerning reform of the state administration, i.e. reform of official legislation, which is to improve the system of evaluation of civil servants and increase the internal mobility of civil servants within the system. When we talk about the concrete solutions proposed in this bill, I will list a few. In this way, the public tender procedure is more specifically regulated, the authorities of the Ministry of Administration are further authorised to cancel a public tender which is called against the provisions of the laws and implementing rules. The work experience shall be defined in the relevant jobs in such a way as to take into account, in addition to the work experience achieved in the national service or in the employment relationship and the work experience achieved on the basis of the work contract. So it just, this kind of solution comes from practice. It is simply that many young people have a working relationship, or work experience based on a work contract, they cannot be employed. And unless they have proper experience, work experience can never acquire the basic conditions required to enter the state service. If that vicious circle doesn't just break through younger people, they can never even enter the state service system. Furthermore, the possibility of professional training without the establishment of a working relationship within the national body is proposed. This is the duration of the traineeship, of course, with the possibility of passing the national expert exam. The national expert exam is again one of the conditions required for the conduct of civil servants' affairs. And if you've never worked in the state service, you can't even lay it down, etc. etc. So these are all specific proposals that go after them to flexibilize the entry of people into the state service. With regard to mobility, increased mobility of civil servants, or the possibility of their circulation within the system, certain changes are also proposed in terms of milder conditions for transfer. The current provisions simply impose excessive rigidity if the need for temporary relocation is concerned, if the need for relocation is concerned. Large operating systems, for example, customs have the need simply to temporarily move officials from one facility to another and then move them to third, etc. The current formulation in the Law on civil servants is quite strict and requires too much formalism. Furthermore, this bill proposes improving the assessment system, the assessment system as one of the basic preconditions for rewarding civil servants. Light and severe injuries to official duty as a mirror of the functioning of the service system should also be completed. This has been shown in previous practice in terms of the circle of injuries, whether as regards the functioning of official courts. There is certainly a need to change certain things for the purpose of speeding up disciplinary, i.e. proceedings before the Official Courts. Because overly formalism is often used to go out of date or simply and clearly guilty officials do not declare themselves responsible for formal failures. This bill was made in cooperation with the unions. However, the debate with the unions continues. We also had a few days ago and in this debate with the trade unions, and in view of this bill, there were mostly three issues left. First of all, it is possible to give assistive and technical jobs to external service providers through the procurement process. So that's what de facto exists in bodies, certain government bodies. The unions oppose this provision. However, with some correction, I think we can find a suitable solution by the second reading. Furthermore, it is a provision on a union commissioner, a war on the provisions which in this bill states that a union commissioner, as well as any other civil servant, should be responsible for the violation of an official duty which has nothing to do with the performance of his union duties. So he was at war to simply equalize the officers. In practice, there are paradoxical situations that three officials commit the same injury. Two match, one not because the union doesn't give consent, and that has nothing to do with performing union activity. The unions object to such a provision. They think it's a matter of acquired rights in collective bargaining. And they simply suggest that this provision be thrown out of the text of the proposal. And the third thing that de facto caused the most debate. It's an emergency notice. Extraordinary cancellation as a ratio, as one of the reasons for adopting such a provision, is an attempt to speed up the termination of a working relationship for employees who are simply incompetent or who simply do not carry out their work properly. And according to the current model of disciplinary trial, or according to the evaluation model, it takes more than two years to prove to someone that they're not really doing their job. It's absurd sometimes. I think a year is just enough time to determine whether someone's doing their job or not. Of course, this model of extraordinary termination is not previously unknown in our legislation, nor is it unknown in comparative legislation. Slovenians also have one such provision. However, this is certainly a provision to be completed and to be specified in order to avoid any disputes in practice. If, otherwise, in the previous application of similar provisions, there have been judicial disputes on which, due to unsettled solutions, the State has had to pay great damage. That's why these provisions have their other side. If they are not well explained, or if their implementation is not appropriate, they may have more harm than benefits. But on the other hand, they are certainly one of the instruments of flexibility of official legislation. So the committees also point out certain possible improvements in the current proposed provisions that we will certainly do until the second reading then in that direction and correct. After today's debate, we suggest that you support the reference of this bill to a second reading, in order to draw up a quality text that will certainly be a shift in our official legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70539	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. This is, in the opinion of the Social Democratic Party's Social Democratic Party Club, one of the most important laws supporting the construction of the rule of law. It is not possible that there is even a rule of law if there is not a well-organised state administration. Every legal and physical entity in our society meets with the state administration. And what marks, what is characterized by the state administration in the Republic of Croatia? It seems to me that we will all agree, so the state administration in the Republic of Croatia does not provide the rule of law, nor will the development of the Croatian state and Croatian society. Is that how it has to be, after 20 years of having our own country? In order to ensure the basic function of the state, we need to look at the state and state of the government today. That is what we know, and here we have the European Union, the European Commission complains that the state administration is politically dependent on us, that it is politically dependent. The second marking of the state administration is the average in the training of officials and state-run directors, but the equipment is still speculative. Third feature of state administration's impediment. If we remember that in 2008 we had here at the debate of the Bill on the Payments of State Employees, which was very difficult to be born, and then there was no possibility of a contract with a civil servant as a motive for rewarding, paying or bringing top experts to the state administration for a certain time, for a certain time provided for, we will realize that we did not take advantage of the possibilities. The third thing I want to point out is the disorder of state records, which is very important for the release of a civil servant or a state administration as a whole from political addiction. If today we had arranged land books, depositary organisations, stable and arranged spatial plans, fully arranged records in the registry court, the connection of the OIB with all elements was legal, any natural person, we wouldn't have tax embossed, we'd have exact lists and we'd come very easily to the data needed for investors etc. So it's all a state marked by today's state administration. But what is offered to resolve this situation? There's a way out of the way again. A solution to subjectivity is offered instead of building systems and systems. Even the proposer here to explain this law says that it is very difficult to fire a worker, an official or a substitute, but for God's sake he is neither an employee, an employee, or a worker responsible for a bad explanation, so that we now eliminate and enable subjective element and bring down the entire system, and we trust the individual to decide when someone will get fired, regardless of the effects and effects in the work. So we've been building a system, trying to build, and then now that the European Union has pushed us to do something, we offer instead of building a return and a big step back at the time of the cadium and its trial. Kadiya sues you, the cadiya judges you, and he determines when you're good and when you're not good. I mean, the main issue in this law is an extraordinary layoff, let's not run away from it. So an extraordinary resignation is given to the head of state that he decides who he likes, regardless of what results he has achieved in his work, and that after two warnings to the exit card. Whether it is acceptable for us, the representatives of the citizens in this House or not, we will give it a vote. But the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club cannot even accept such standards in its first reading. Arbitrality is not the solution to the problems of the state administration. It's not a solution. We said, here I have already said on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of the Club in the Croatian Parliament, that the system of monitoring work has not been introduced. How can that be achieved? It is very important, and it is also agreed by both professional and ordinary observers of the work of the state administration, including this Parliament, is a deregulation. In fact, the Croatian Parliament makes the laws as on tape, out of the need to get closer to the European Union and into the European Union, we have arranged a system of law-making in one reading, without public debate, and of course there are rules in a bunch of such laws, laws that are opposite to each other, and we do not regulate the system of laws that are mutually harmonised, that they are not repeated, that they are clear to both the official and the citizen, but our primary goal is to meet the needs of entry into the European Union as soon as possible. Something else is very important for the new one to repeat, namely if the assessment that the state administration is politicised, and the assessment is, the government agrees with it, so we saw in the recent reading that even in the law it was introduced that they could not be members of the political parties of the Police Act, but that is the smallest element of politicism. The greatest element of politicism when a civil servant does not know where and where the law will satisfy needs as a service of citizens. When the arbitration of decision-making is at its peak when there are no copies of the records, let's say that we only have spatial and urban plans we shouldn't wait for a construction permit of 3.4 months because, big procedures are waiting for a year and a half, that's the experience I have from investors. Which I have and which investors often tell me that arbitration is very high in this regard. So let's not run away from the need to build up and upgrade and upgrade the system in the state administration, especially rewards and evaluations and wages. In order to allow for greater transparency in state administration bodies. But arbitration and subjectivity are not on the trail of that solution. And the article, I think, is that in 61 of this bill, I repeat completely destroying the system because it allows an individual quite subjective to determine whether a civil servant will not work on a job but rather whether he will remain a civil servant at all. I think the strategy that we've brought here in this House on State Administration on regulation, deconcentration, decentralisation is an important element and we can't ignore it now. In this respect, the evaluation and then the building of trust between the heads of state for individual departments and civil servants cannot be on the principle of obedience. So I'm talking constantly about a proposal that completely eliminates the construction of a system in which a significant effort has been made, and now this is not accepted as a good solution, but is deviating from it and going back. I think it is very important to establish all state records in order to improve the working conditions of the state administration as a service of citizens, but we are back, and there has been a speech here not once, so to say and served to the citizens of Croatia, that the OIB will, therefore, make it impossible for the personal identification number and connections of other state records to improve the ability of the state administration to come out to the citizens in one day and that this system will also prevent corruption and nepotism and ties and friendships and everything else. And then two years later, we came to the realization that nothing had allowed us to do so, and it didn't solve the problem, so we're going to introduce an extraordinary resignation, give confidence to an individual, and the individual is in office of a political party that is in power, that's the logic of the organization, so he's going to try to prove to the state administration what a subjective assessment from the state administration will most likely, by that criterion, kick out officials from that state administration. Such a solution can’t be good in mind. So I'm saying if the Government and the Proposer don't immediately say that we won't support this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70541	Thank you. We have one rectification of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70542	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So my colleague, Leco, incorrectly stated that this law determines that the head of the body of the state administration, or another senior official, will determine who he likes and who doesn't like, will therefore be sharing extraordinary notices. It is simply not true because it does not say so in the bill, but says that the leader is obliged to warn the officer in writing of irregularities in his work and the possibility of an extraordinary cancellation, he will be able to correct that behaviour, after 15 days he will again warn him not to do his job properly. We all advocate for a more efficient state administration, for greater efficiency at work, etc., and so far we have had provisions that the civil servant could not work for almost 2 years, he had to get an assessment not satisfactory that he could get fired after that. I'm asking you, can real sector workers who pay taxes afford that luxury? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70543	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, distinguished representative Damir Cain, please. Your Honor, a little more concentration, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70544	I'm being held back and distracted. We're all nervous, I don't know why. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, yes, someone might say you shouldn't put out the fire with gasoline. What is the key to this law? It is likely that these articles - 29. that officials may be temporarily moved for a year, Article 30 of the State official may, where appropriate, be referred to another State body in the same or other place of work and, if necessary, in any case, this Article 61, which states that a State official who does not carry out the tasks is professionally and effectively within the prescribed time limit, the State Service may, by way of an emergency notice of the head of the body or a senior official, continue to make written reference to the officer in accordance with the provisions of the law. The state service ceases its extraordinary resignation" etc. Yeah, my colleague Anna's right. At a time when thousands of people in this country lose their jobs, working in the state service is "almost a privilege". And that is why it is clear that these people are responsible for this public service. Someone may call me for one of these qualifications, but thousands of people in this country have tried to open up a company, some small craftsman, I don't know, get a job with a private employer, they'd be disappointed and they are, and I'd love to if we could get a job in the state service. We would especially like to get a job in the state service at this time of crisis, if nothing at all makes us logical because of relatively modest pay or modest pay but safe wages and "inability to quit". Clearly, it's not always like that, but let's see what's going on around us. Every day in the Republic of Croatia, although in two years this country has lost 140 thousand jobs, hundreds of people are out of work. In a public service without a job, we can say in the last two years there has been no one left in the Republic of Croatia. So much one could conclude that clearly with health is a mental mind that often many lack the likely job capital. I said she's been out of 140 thousand jobs for the last two years. And this is increasingly related to this real sector, but it also needs to be fair and admit that it is not public administration's fault and because we have such trends in the real sector. Neither should anyone in the public administration be punished. I look at these small companies, we look at these little twists, we look at the people who run these small companies are often these people in a far more difficult position and from the workers who work with them themselves. I agree that officials may not have often understood the needs of citizens, often they may not have understood the needs of the economy, those who are weak, but in general I also want to say quite decided that public service is especially when it comes to wages always regularly shared fate with the average or with the citizens of this country. We just have to admit it. What is the biggest problem with public service? These are primarily unarranged, superficial laws, laws that are often mutual in cohesion, one hypertrophy of legal regulations. A man asks himself the question of where this Hitrorez went where nothing in this country can be simple, where nothing in this country can be quickly but everything must be complicated. And then it's clear to the civil servant sometimes that he's arbiting, sometimes to speed something up amongst other things, and because of the level of pay himself, he can be subject to some temptations, that I'm not trying to characterize some of the dates. However, I am also absolutely opposed to anyone playing with public servants. This article 61 speaks in these two warnings. It is clear when we look at Article 61 that there is an emphasis here on a work that is not carried out professionally, which is not effectively, that the emphasis on a job is not done within the time limit. So no one should stand on the other hand to protect someone who does not professionally do a job, who does not respect the deadlines, who does not respect the authority in that system if it is not effective. On the other hand, however, can the predominant in that ministry be biased? Well, that's fine. Can someone who's supposed to be an officer be exclusive? Absolutely can. And that's why you should especially work on legal medicines that, with the appeal, I don't know the objection, the clerk can always get an adequate above all impartial answer. I am deeply convinced that even in the future, regardless of this law that we are discussing today, there will be no cancellation, especially not a lot of layoffs in the public service. However, these layoffs should be considered the least possible and no one in this country needs to be feared by a public official. Cancellation in no way can be turned into a rule, it must always be an extraordinary solution. Article 63 of this page 46 here speaks of liability for work duties violations, Article 139a "In practice, problems arise in the implementation of the procedure for determining the responsibility of the deputy for labour obligations violations, as well as the imposition of sanctions for workers' injuries from employment" etc. I don't want to read all this. All of it is clearly not possible that we and perhaps it is possible, not that it is impossible, perhaps it is possible, that we may be resented by the public on "excessive" compassion towards officials when 200 people in the real sector a day are left without a job, but once again I will point out that people who are in the public service must in no way be exposed to anyone's self-government, and especially let no one think that these people are privileged, especially when we talk about their salaries. The fact that wages in the public ministry are regular is that wages in the public service are secure, which is almost impossible to lose a job, something is clear that should be appreciated, and that is why any official should be clearly shown. The vast majority of people who work in this public ministry are inclined to do so in a word of such conduct. Public service wages are certainly insufficient for the naked survival of the vast majority of those mentioned 200 and 60 thousand. Everything would be different if the economic opportunities were better, if the budget was fuller. There is a question of where to take, who to take, how to start an economy, how to hire more people in the real sector, how to get more investment, and how to then the public service, regardless of what activity we are going to talk about now, can benefit from it. However, it cannot be that anyone in the public service is out of a job, it is important that the work is done in a correct way. It is also clear that this job can be secure, long-term, but that should be the goal for all those working in the private sector, not just the public sector. It would be natural for everyone to get paid in this country, not that it's only a privilege for some if it's the right information that almost 80,000 people in the Republic are irregularly receiving salaries. It would be also natural to open jobs, not to shut down, but the law as a law is not controversial if the practice of canceling by some case would not be natural. All in all, once again, I believe that the law is not disputed provided that some of the self-authorities of those officers, public employees, are not usurped by rights that do not belong to them and that we clearly give every official the opportunity to try to defend their status through legal medicines.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70545	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS club, distinguished representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In my opinion, and in our club HSS, being a civil servant in every democratically decorated country means that you have reached a high degree of expertise, professionalism, responsibility and diligence and that you represent or should at least represent the elite of the administration and that you are proud of your status in society and that the state is also pleased that it created such an effective state administration. The Republic of Croatia has its own state administration that has changed a lot over the past 20 years compared to the one before. The changes occurred in both directions, so both in a positive and negative direction. The intention is to form a state service that will be a worthy service for citizens made up of officials who are interested, professional, responsible, engaged and ready for continuous training. Of course, in order to achieve this, it is necessary to create certain assumptions such as the adoption of a good law, the insurance of decent wages, the promotion of quality personnel, the giving of deserved status in society, and so on. A civil servant can't be anyone, in our opinion. A person working in the public service should have envious moral and professional qualities in order to deserve the status of a civil servant. Therefore, the amendments and additions in question give us all the opportunity to create conditions for the creation of a state administration exactly as any well-organised state should. We at the HSS Club see this proposal as a chance to correct the shortcomings of the existing law and introduce positive developments that will contribute to a state administration that will be available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia with its efficiency and expertise. We believe that certain positive shifts are proposed, but we should also examine certain provisions in our opinion, since their effects are questionable in practice. For that reason, I'll name the following. The proposal for a law of 19 adds a new Article 61a, which, after a long time, corrects one injustice and fills the legal gap in such a way as to prescribe the possibility of doing training without establishing a working relationship, thus creating assumptions for larger activities related to that part of the population. In addition, the same Article 3 provides for the possibility of passing a state expert examination which is almost always a condition for receiving a person in the public service, unless he is an apprentice. Thus, this will provide opportunities for unemployed people who have done training to pass a state-level professional exam, thus obtaining conditions for applying to the public service. However, we believe that passing a state-run expert exam should go to the expense of the state budget because it is about unemployed people. For the past few years, we have been facing the consequences of the economic crisis and of financial weak activity, and so on because of the cost reduction of this proposal, so-called. outsourcing, i.e. the removal of certain services from the state administration that carry out technical assistance. We believe that these services from a security aspect are very important and that they play a very important role, although that is not the case at first sight. In companies where there is a great fluctuation of staff for profit, which is completely understandable, it is impossible to have verified personnel since these companies often change workers. Therefore, we believe that technical assistance should be kept within the state administration, not allowed to be carried out by various external companies which are often "not known or owned", and in particular whether staff and to which extent the quality of their technical capabilities are verified. We also find that it is a questionable provision in Article 39, which amends the current Article 28(2), which stipulates that the civil servant ceases the state service by force of the law on the day of enforcement if it is once assessed as "unsatisfactory". There are a number of justified, but also unjustified reasons why an officer can be assessed by such an assessment, especially since the state service in our country is still deeply linked to the political influence of various political options, whether I want to be recognized or not. It should be noted that public officials are always exposed to interrogations by their superiors in the year following the elections, even often even discriminated on the political line and the said provision could also be used for these purposes. We believe that such a relationship should change, and that can only happen if politics is distanced from personneling. Such a relationship is extremely unfair for non-party activists and who do business professionally and professionally and who advance exclusively thanks to professional qualities. In view of the above, we believe that the provision of the above article should be reconsidered in the sense that the official ceases the state service under the law if two years in a row is assessed as "unsatisfactory". Although we have already heard in the debate today in replicas of comparison with the real sector and with civil servants. Furthermore, we believe that it is necessary to review the provision of Article 41(5), which provides for the possibility of extraordinary progress to officials who do not meet the conditions of working experience, but fulfil the conditions laid down in the Regulation adopted by the Government and determines what these conditions are. In this way, the State Service could become an instrument of political elite, as similar people will be placed in the executive offices without appropriate references. We believe that this proposed formulation of Article 41(5) should certainly be reconsidered and not allow officials to be used for partial daily political interests. Article 49 amends Article 101 of the Law proposing that in the Council of the Official Court the President and one of the members no longer have to be a judge but merely a graduate lawyer. In this way, the quality of the proceedings and the independence of the Official Court are at stake, and there is a risk that, under the allegations, unsurprising officials under questionable circumstances, they will be decided on their fate. We therefore believe that, precisely because of independence and competence, this proposal should be reconsidered and the previous formulation of the article should be left. It should also be seen what to do with the provision of Article 61, which adds a new Article 136a. a which provides for the possibility of an emergency dismissal of an officer based on a discretionary assessment and two written warnings by the head of the body or even more dangerous for a senior officer not to carry out entrusted tasks in accordance with the provisions of the law. This formulated provision gives the head of the body or a senior officer great authority and the possibility of abuse. It also represents ignoring the systems of easy and serious violations of official duty, official courts and sanctions they impose. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to change the way in which the warning can be sent exclusively by the head of the body, and by no means by the officer responsible, and the authority to assess the violation of the official duty exclusively to the Official Court. The HSS Club advocates and believes that official standards will be met in the future, that the professionalisation of the administration will be implemented regardless of political options and that the Republic of Croatia and its citizens will have the management of which the Minister of Administration will also be proud to know that all assumptions are created that the best candidates are hired, that officials are encouraged by positive measures to carry out their tasks effectively, that they are adequately paid and that their work and professionalism are correctly valued. We advocate the introduction of objective and measurable criteria for assessing the results and quality of work in relation to the results set and expected, and the introduction of a system of rewarding the above average results of work and taking appropriate but fair measures towards non-efficient employees. Therefore, according to all of this, the HSS Club advocates a competent and effective state administration whose work will satisfy all Croatian citizens, which we believe will be achieved after a quality debate and respecting the comments made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70547	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70548	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike the previous bill, this bill is at least on a good track with several of the evident shortcomings spoken of by both my predecessors and the secretary of state mentioned still unresolved issues in the negotiations and talks with the union. We certainly agree with you that these talks should continue and try to find a common solution at least regarding these issues. But I'd like to start with those good suggestions first. At the HNS Club, HSU, we agree that the mobility of civil servants should be increased unequivocally. We agree that the use of external service providers should be made possible when it comes to technical assistance. We agree to better manage human potentials. We agree that a higher degree of decentralisation of decision-making and greater individual responsibility of civil servants should be ensured. Furthermore, we agree that objective and measurable criteria should be provided for assessing results and quality of work. We agree that we need to introduce a system of rewarding the nat average results of work, but also the opposite of that, until cancellation. Of course, there should be very careful. And we agree with the remarks of my predecessors that there really must be a union to ensure that those who do not meet minimum standards must or may be fired, but that there are no later clues that will be dragged through courts for years and years. We agree that in addition to the public tender, it is necessary to allow the transfer of employees and subsistence staff, to solve and fill certain jobs through promotion and internal advertising. That's good solutions. In practice, the Institute of Transfers is rarely used as needed, and we think it is good. In this way, without new employment, professional, quality and timely work can be ensured. Furthermore, we agree that methods should be introduced to better assess the needs of education, that a study leave should be introduced for professional training and training of employees, we agree that a new law should also be adopted to regulate the salaries of civil servants, i.e. the law governing the salaries of public sector employees, foreseeing their remuneration according to work and the results of work, i.e. efficiency. As regards this principle mentioned in the opening part of the law, we discussed several proposals from our cities, from our municipalities, from various institutions, and one example is very eclant as regards this. Namely, the lab technician mentioned us doing the same work in the MUP lab, in the KBC lab, and in the laboratory of some Biomedical Faculty. The same jobs are done, they are all paid, i.e. on the state budget, and the salary range is almost one to two. So there's a lot of work to do, there's a lot of things that need to be corrected, and certainly that, with such changes and additions, we might have to do a lot more in that direction, that we need to be more transparent, that our criteria must be more objectively yes. However, colleagues and colleagues, all of what I have so far praised at every European Union or Council of Europe seminar aimed at strengthening the capacity and efficiency of the state administration, will be found in the titles and subtitles of the lecture of all these measures, all these proposals. Therefore, they are not controversial, their entry into the law is not disputed. Dispute is their application in practice. It's always our pain, and unfortunately, and so far we've had some solutions that we haven't used, and that way we could've certainly been more effective, but of course we didn't know or wanted to do it. What you would underline as bad or something you may or may not be able to solve in a different way would be the following. First of all, colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if anyone mentioned, I mean these changes and additions are essentially changing more than 40% of the law, changing 72 articles out of 151. It seems to us that it would be a better solution if we were on our way to making a new law. It seems to us. Then, certainly, we should announce at least, we seem to need to do this very quickly, and bring this law into line with the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional self-government. If the secretary of state remembers that Varazdin case, it seems to me that where the officers were fired and severance paid, that the second day of employment, after the county of the city administration, we think that there is a lot to be reconciled there too, a lot to be resolved, a lot of money saved, and that we would definitely have to withdraw the amendments and additions of that law at the same time. Then the pro futuro needs to be harmonised and the Payments Act is mentioned here about the salaries of officials, but of course also the salaries of those who work in local and regional self-government as well, for the same reasons try to really network the entire system, all those who are on the state manger. I agree with you, it seems to me that my colleague Leko was speaking, article 11, which should be worked out very well. It leaves a lot of room for subjective evaluation, it allows us to continue to solve everything by grandmothers and uncles, in particular Article 11, paragraph 1, the choice of candidates in the public tender procedure, or internal advertising, is done on the basis of the results of the examination of knowledge, skills and results in the work so far being determined through testing and conversation. That's certainly not good, I think we made a much bigger shift when we passed the Law on Courts and the DSV Act, and then we worked out the criteria much, much better and I think we should maybe take some of those criteria to avoid the subjective moment that's being read here from this proposal. Furthermore, in the case of suspension of the tender procedure, an internal advert, the tender procedure, i.e. an internal ad, will be suspended by a decision if, in view of the significantly changed circumstances following the call for a public tender, or an internal ad, the filling of the workplace cannot be carried out. That's a little funny, give me at least three criteria you're thinking about under significantly changed circumstances. That's the subjective approach we have to try to eliminate again. It must be eliminated because we all know why competitions are being suspended today. Because the one we set up that tender doesn't meet the requirements, it can't go through, we're suspending a clear procedure and new criteria are going. That's obvious, and let's not allow it by colleagues and colleagues. Here, therefore, I will not repeat myself in relation to what my colleagues and colleagues before me have said, but once again I repeat in front of the HNS Club, HSU law is on track, there is much more to be corrected until another reading, but after that there is always the big question of whether we will be able to properly implement it, implement it in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70549	Thank you. It's the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70550	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, in particular it is in the first reading, so this proposal, which is in front of us in the text as it is the first reading, will definitely be in line with the observations made on the committees and with those observations and views heard here in this plenary debate. So, of course, we will support this law because it is a consequence, that is, it stems from several strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia, which have already been accepted in this Croatian Parliament or in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So this is, above all, the reform strategy of the state administration in 2008-2011, which has a very important segment in its composition, which is management of human potential, which is based on this human potential development strategy in 2010-2013, which in that part established the principle that employment in the state service and progress in the state service must be based on the merits, therefore according to the knowledge, skills, skills and interdependence of each individual, which applies either to entry or progress in the state service. There are also the negotiating positions of Chapter 23, which we have pledged to bring all specific laws in line with the Law on Administrative Disputes, and therefore stems from the economic recovery programme which has its own plan of operational and enforcement activities which determine certain measures, both in the public sector award system, for which it is necessary to amend the Law on Civil Servants, so all things are being traced to a more efficient and efficient state, more quality state administration. Equally, the measure of increasing the mobility of civil servants, within the body of the state administration, but also outside the body of the state administration, again precisely to ensure that competences, abilities, the skills of those human potentials that we have used as much as possible and as much as possible. In this part, I would also say that there may be a provision which is now legally legal under this proposal for the possibility of auxiliary jobs, i.e. jobs now carried out by the state administration authorities, which is already used as a practice in many state bodies, so that these jobs can be entrusted to external service providers in accordance with public procurement regulations. Here I have to say that I see this expression outsourcing in the promoter, and we can say it in Croatian, but fortunately in the text of the law, it is only in reason that this word is used. Before I go into detail and praise what is good and warn about some questionable situations or those that can still be asked, I would say that the state administration is doing a large number or most of the state officials honestly, diligently doing their job, using all the opportunities for education and using their knowledge. They should be kept for the reasons that tasks are increasingly difficult in front of the state administration, mainly as part of the adaptation of our system to the European system of implementation of European directives. So these and such high-quality human potentials should be safeguarded, but precisely because that small number that often gets into the eyes of citizens, so those who don't work, those who have seen the state service as a good life-long syncure from which no one can ever push them out and can get fired as it is bored and there has been. Which is based on the legal provisions, and which in practice was the right thing to do, then introduce these new provisions that introduce stronger discipline and also allow for greater flow of these civil servants with all their skills and competences. Here, I'll try to get through the law. So we said that through the whole law you can see that the provisions are in line with the Law on Administrative Procedure. Good provisions have been made possible by the Central Authority of the State Administration in charge of official relations, so that the Ministry may cancel the public tender if it is prescribed against the provisions of the law. So, if he had given him such an opportunity, he'd stepped up his surveillance, but then he'd given him the possibility of undoing, so he'd also be sanctioned, not just something written in the law, but actually it's no effect. As regards the provisions on the tender procedure, the internal advert, the regulation of the possibility of suspending the procedure, therefore all of this should have been established by law. In particular, it seems to me to be a valuable provision on the ability to accept people without working experience in state bodies. Therefore, enabling the acquisition of work experience to pass a professional exam. And as an alternative is left in the law, i.e. the dilemma of whether or not such persons who are employed temporarily are paying for work experience themselves or not. I, of course, and we at the HDZ Club have been pleading to pass an expert exam on the burden of the state so that these young people would be stimulated that when they had an exercise internship for a year to pass that exam. I will point out this to the provision of Article 2, which is in the basic text of Article 35 which speaks of conflict of interest. Namely, conflict of interest in this law is an interesting topic. Let us not forget that we have a Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest that sets very strictly provisions for officials. But they often work, act, edit independently, by civil servants – guidelines that decide on rights, large material amounts or very important rights for individuals, so these provisions on conflict of interest are very important to work out in this law as well. We propose this proposal to delete the words "other legal persons" in Article 35, which means that according to this proposal, a civil servant must not be a member of the administrative or supervisory body of a company or, so far, there have been other legal persons, and now there is no legal person, if the body in which he is employed is supervised. I warn that the head of the conflict of interest has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 articles, that in all other articles which, in terms of conflict of interest, prevents conflicts of interest, prohibits the establishment of a legal person or the opening of a craftsman, the possibility of carrying out an additional job, the duty to declare a possible conflict of interest, all these articles speak of natural and legal persons therefore include companies and all other legal persons. And it seems inconsistencies to me that only one article in this chapter is singled out by another legal person, so I suggest to the Proposer that, until the final text, the entire head of conflict of interest is a little bit coordinated. In Article 8 of this proposal for amendments and additions, which is an article, the new article, which is added to 45c, speaks of the fact that prior to the opening of the public tender, all public authorities are required by the Central Authority of the State Administration, and that is good, to check that there is a government of officials who meet the conditions for the schedule. Namely, to avoid hiring new officials if some officials have not found a place for them after certain schedules, they are therefore out of work. Now, Article 4 says that if we really want to implement what is the meaning of this article in paragraph 4 says after the verification of competences is carried out, the national authority will decide to fill a position with that official or to write a public tender. So, I suggest that this is where the state body is bound if that official on the schedule meets the requirements, so he proved his competence, that he must be employed in that body without having to call a public tender. In fact, the point is that we don't let ourselves volunteer to have someone take their new man if he already exists in the system of state administration. I have already said that in article 19, in the case of employment of young people who have no working experience, to enable them to obtain the opportunity to free themselves from the duty of paying for a professional exam. In Article 23, which is Article 66 of the Basic Law, indeed, the Secretary of State, I warn you, and you will assess, this article has received two new items, where it says that the president and the board members assess the head of the central government responsible for official relations, which is the minister of the administration if I read well. And then against that decision on the decision-making process, the appeal is made to the secretary, or to the current secretary of the government. So the secretary of the government is no body, the secretary of government cannot decide by appeal. I don't know if this mistake was something I didn't really want to recognize, but it would be logical if the government decided, not one high, but he's still an official, but he's not a body. Therefore, it is good in Article 27 that provisions have been introduced specifically for the jobs of government officials, so these are the former assistant ministers who have recently been officials, but on the basis of depoliticalisation they are now received through competitions and it is good that these obligations have been introduced into this law. And I see the time is over, so I'll just mention two more things. This is to first see that this bill increases the protection of whistles, or persons who have reported corruption in good faith. This is on the trail of the Anti-corruption Strategy, so that two serious injuries to work duties are imposed if there is a chicane to such a worker or if his right to protection of anonymity is violated. And finally, about the extraordinary resignation that was already being discussed here. So, I don't need to repeat that in this situation certainly the vast majority of civil servants will never come, but it has simply been unacceptable so far that for two years a person who doesn't know how to work, will not work, that he has to be assessed for two years as insufficient to get fired. Of course, the provisions must be introduced that there is no volunteerism, but this proposal has been introduced in some ways, but I suggest that because the secretary of state has said and should be warned. So, after this decision to fire, there is protection. If the worker succeeds in this protection, then the state can be paying huge damages. It may be necessary to strengthen the responsibility on the part of the head, or the direct jurisdiction of the officers. Just one more sentence, I suggest that it really cannot be done on its own by a senior civil servant, but always by the subsignation of the head of the body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70551	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues and fellow MPs. When we discuss this legal proposal on civil servants, it comes to my mind that although it is not a civil servant, it is the directors of the House of Health in Slavonski Brod who is calling for responsibility because he has received children of inadequate parents, partyly inadequate. So how does the ruling HDZ party’s application of the future Civil Service Act look in the light of such behaviour? This is the one I'd say would be a benign example but it's an example. There are a number of others. In fact, last week or before, we passed a law on police depolitisation, and then we talked about cementing the current state of cover, now they're masquerade, so they're under the cover of depolitisation of the police, and my God, if someone leaves their party belongings, that doesn't mean they've crossed their political commitment forever, attitudes, ideology, etc. So it's a bit of a demagogy wrapped in cellophane and, in fact, the possibility of nepotism in state services. I believe that we are all in the Croatian state agreeing that the state service is too bulky, that large funds are allocated to the work of the state services, that it needs to be rationalised, that it needs to be efficient, efficient, that it needs to be competent, that everyone agrees. When it comes to the rationalisation of some others, one plan shall be drawn up which shall be laid off mainly by senior officials or employees, along with the plan which shall then be provided with severances, etc. If the aim is already to rationalise the state service, then such a plan could also be made in connection with civil servants. Clearly such a plan is known how it is done. So in order to reduce the number of civil servants, rationalise the state administration by about 5 or 10% as far as is foreseen, then there is another way. This introduces the possibility of doing this law, political staffing, of firing unsuspecting officials, of quitting on the basis of an assessment of a superior, and of two warnings due to a serious breach of duty. Interestingly, this material of the bill states which are more difficult, which are minor infringing work duties. Maybe as an ex-surgeon, I can't quite figure it out around here. In fact, Article 98 defines easy, not easy, but minor injuries to official duty. I'll count them. Says easy injuries to official duties are frequent delays to work or early departure from work, leaving work rooms during working hours without authorisation or unwarranted reasons, disorderly keeping files, data or other verified documentation, unwarranted absences from work one day, failure to inform a senior officer of the prevention of work, etc. and other minor violations of official duties prescribed by law. They're minor injuries. What a tough one they are, then. I have 33 years of work, I don't have days of sick leave or work, so this really looks like a little bit of a set-up that these minor injuries really seem a little weird to me. What else to say about this bill of law on which the union has also given its opinion and an unfavourable opinion, civil servants. They're against a law like this. Article 2 states that it will enable similar officials to be members of an institution’s board of directors or supervisory board or other legal persons and will influence the decisions of those bodies through them and there is... Therefore, I am talking about the fact that the evaluations received by officials through their superiors or their leaders influence the fact that employees, officials may also become members of the board of directors or supervisors. [[You don't understand.]] The question of party similarities and belongings is again raised. A new way of assessing especially appropriate and exceptional are also reserved for only who. And therefore, there is a difference in wages, which then creates a social difference. So one assessment that, hardly objectively it is, is very often subjective and then clearly that there will be great poisoning and diversity of opinions as we had during the Homeland War in hospitals. The head of staff's discretion to assess someone in his monthly work according to some criteria and he was getting 10% on the salary, and the other one was getting -10%. Now in some other service, so in the state services we have about the same thing. I'm not saying it's 10%, but we have that difference. And believe me, such decisions were major problems in our hospital, and there was dissatisfaction and everything was. I'm talking about the subjectivity of the evaluations of those who give them and the possibility of abuse of those assessments. The system of advancement in the ministry will likely adapt to similar ones that will be easier to get the rating "extreme" and "equitable", and if someone accidentally gets a three-fold consecutive score "successful" won't improve it. I guess it's a three, good, successful one. Because it has to be an internal order rule of some kind of vacancy that the head of the body should determine where it will progress or prevent it from progressing. All depending on that subjective assessment. The deadline for an extraordinary resignation is really too short. I hope you agree with that, Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry. Twice in 15 days of written warning that someone can make their mistake, now has various mistakes, has those easy and difficult, within 15 days prove that he corrected it. He may not even be able to be the same type of mistake he could fix within 15 days. And now he hasn't come across a case like that, so he finds out he hasn't fixed it, she's the first one left, and what's fired, a man gets fired or a person. From the current two years I think it's also too long a period, so it doesn't turn out that I am exclusively defending and representing acquired rights that are also quite civil servants. So really two years and a 15-day cut is a drastic, drastic difference, you have to admit. So it seems to me that the whole amendment to this law was written to hire people before the election, similar people who are currently working on an act contract. In addition, we also get another relatively well-supervised official, who is the president of the Committee for Decision-making on the conflict of interest, who, along with the Secretary of State's Election Commission, will receive a respectable, as someone said, respectable pensions, a respectable salary with a coefficient of 4.26. As is said, former ministerial assistants are receiving, and current ministry directors and other former officials. All other officials continue to receive salaries under the regulation, and only these two officials I have called have said with a salary at the level of former officials. In any case, the HDSSB's club for rationalising the state administration is for an efficient state administration, competent, capable. But how can we possibly have such a state administration when we have established here these days, yesterday in the debate that yesterday's bill of law came two years from the proposal's intention. He was Prime Minister Sanader, so Mrs. Kosor on the Guarantee Fund. It takes two years for the government to come to the constituency benches for the billion kuna Guarantee Fund. Is that effective? You need to punish someone in the government for being so slow. What's the score going to be? Successful, unsuccessful, remarkable, as it already has those grades and who's estimating it. Well, clearly, if we have a model of an inefficient and incompetent government, we won't have a successful or competent or efficient government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70553	Thank you very much. Here I am informing you that in 13.22 minutes it is time to report a ten-minute hearing. Now we interrupt the morning session. We'll continue at 15.00 hours with an individual discussion. And the first in line is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Thank you very much, and I wish you a good time. We'll continue the afternoon session. There has been a change in the application of the honourable MPs. The first will be on the agenda for the individual debate, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70555	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Several amendments to the Civil Service Act were always intended, at least so, so we had the opportunity to read in an explanation of how to get to the state administration as effectively as possible. We all know that civil servants are the mirror of every state, and what state administration is in one administration is essentially the quality, i.e. the level of legal statehood in that country. Many laws have also been passed on officials, and on tenants, salaries, regulations, etc., but let me read you an excerpt from Maria Teresa's command of behaviour in the state service, which is also current today. He only has one leaf, and there's all the strategy, the goal and the means to get to it, so please listen. Every day the only days of the week will come to the schoolhouses at seven o'clock diligently in the office and be there until fifteen o'clock in the afternoon. Every time, and longer if she asks for a multitude of corrections, she will diligently and accurately do her work, as well as what she is instructed to do, and for that to be done, and for it not to bother or to prevent her from speaking, not to talk in vain, not to be measured, not to fight, not to play, not to be drunk, and not to be guests in the office, nor to the outsiders, so that they will be sober and moderate, to love peace and harmony, and to rule in all things decent and handsome. From outsiders not to let themselves into suburban and closed room offices, and finally honor and honor of the aforementioned council and offices to try to keep and maintain unblemished. So how do you get to the civil servants, who will be primarily educated, who will be motivated, who will be industrious? So, for one thing, to end nepotism. That people come from the earliest age, when they finish colleges, or a certain preparation, and that they will enter the system and see their careers, or experience the peak and end of their careers, that they can count precisely on their efforts, on their knowledge that they will advance, that right in the government they see the possibility of progress and that is the basic motivation. I'm afraid that's not the case today. One of Austria's developed, it's a cradle of just fine administration. Not to quote Max Webber now who has just established the good principles of the administration. When you have a good administration in one country, you do not have any, you have little problems, and even economic hardships when they find a country when you have a quality administration, it is well and effectively solved. And you have satisfied citizens. One Austria, she doesn't know what a silence administration is. There every request is resolved in 15 days, but they are also not satisfied with their administration because they believe that there are engines that work and do practically all that work, and that there are also those who are a little squirming along with them. And they built a pilot project to reward their own civil servants, including the tenants, on the results of their work. And it's not true that only work in the industry somewhere can be measured in motion. It is possible to measure the effectiveness of the work of the civil servant, which should be the basic criterion of progress. We do not see him in this, nor in this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on civil servants, but there is, in fact, a serious objection, that is what my colleague Leko was talking about, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, about volunteering the superiors. How can someone who is in charge and who has come by political preferences be objective? In fact, people who are in the system before, or who have come, who have just come from the foundation of their abilities, how can they be promised the environment of those who came based on nepotism? First, they cause mistrust and unsympathies just because they stand out with their work. And they're not denuances, they're doing their job. They are not, unfortunately, popular, but they are, they need to be nurtured and afforded, first of all, to keep them, to motivate them, to pay well, and to enable them to progress. We know that a state school for civil servants has been formed, but has it started working? Ever since she was formed, she should have started working. We have made significant progress, and the foundations made right in reforming the judiciary and progress of entering the judiciary, precisely on the basis of the State School for Judges, the Judicial Academy. Unfortunately, we don't see objective criteria here, not for entry, let alone for advancement. Therefore, the basic meaning of amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants should be traced to a significant reform of the administration, a state administration without which there is no judicial reform, because the vast number of cases faced by the judiciary is being poured out from an inefficient administration, because of the silence of the administration, because of illegal decisions, look only recently, in the last year, two days as they have been overcrowded, as the administrative court is overcrowded, which solves the very illegality of the state administration. If a man is to wait for one permit for a few years, then what are we talking about? And at the end of the day, not only do we have an unsatisfactory citizen, but it's not solved, it's brought to justice. But what is very important, and that is to protect a civil servant from chicane behavior, so that we have such measures, such legal provisions, which will protect the good, but which will also have mechanisms to get rid of the one who does not do his job, and which is a distraction in the system, so how to find that one balance between those two aspirations that are not in the opposite but are precisely aimed at a professional state administration that is educated and motivated, and also well paid. Is it okay, I mentioned something just now when we were talking about the Register Act that with the same expertise we have a range, so at first-class jobs, a range of 1.05 to 3.5. That's the coefficient. It can't just be. If he has any use for that register then he'll have to change it. They cannot be civil servants of the same training paid, or denied in their income for 4 thousand kuna. It just can't be. It is also a pity that this legislative proposal does not have a P.Z.E. code. Because everyone, we also saw it in the opposition, could not be evaluated by discretion, and even less fired by an extraordinary civil servant. The biggest remarks were just at the head and the head of the court, which are mostly the presidents of the courts, right in the assessment of the judges. And there are now really objective criteria, criteria. And here it was left to him on the dispositive head of the body to evaluate the subordinates. And on that assessment, and this is Article 28, that on the basis of the leader's free assessment, he first and foremost determines his transfer, but also his assessment. It has to be objective because of that, that's how we get good employees. And then we end up getting the results of the work. However,
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70556	Thank you very much. Your time is up. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Mirela Holly, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70557	Thank you, Vice President. Well, as my colleague Leko said when he spoke on behalf of the SDP club, this law that we are discussing today is a very important law, and because the safety of citizens is directly derived from a good, quality and effective state administration, and it should be a public service of citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, our administration is not and citizens and citizens are justifiably complaining about the work of bureaucracy, which is very often acting as if it is its own purpose, as if citizens and citizens are there because of red tape, not bureaucracy because of them. And therefore, the definitive fact is that we need a reform of the state administration system, which is unfortunately expensive, massive, inefficient, autistic and often blatant in Croatia today 2011. The new law is necessary, but also the best law, and this law is definitely not a good law, does not necessarily ensure an improvement in the existing situation if those most responsible for law enforcement are, in this case, the heads and heads of the body of the administration reluctantly and/or unable to implement this or any other law. The fact is that fish stink from the head, and unless the head clears up and their quality and responsibility for their work is difficult to expect that the body of the fish will suddenly become fragrant. And that's exactly what this law is all about. And that is why I cannot support this law even in my first reading because it is simply not possible to improve it because the intention behind this law is unacceptable. And the SDP advocates reforming the state administration, firstly in the direction of transformation from the model of governance to the model of governance, from the autistic... Yeah, I'd like to beg if you could calm down a little bit. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Of autistic, an antipathic
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70558	It's usually the usual. And this morning, the same thing on your part was such a jam. It's a common jam. Proceed with the debate. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70559	Okay, okay. So, the antipathic and one trom of bureaucracy towards the public and loving service of citizens and citizens who quickly and effectively solves the needs, demands and problems of our citizens and citizens. What specifically does this law bring? It makes adjustments in the section relating to the evaluation of civil servants and officials, increasing the mobility of officials and officials, and outsorcing services such as catering, cleaning and canteens. The corrections in the evaluation part seek to introduce order in the direction of the public service of citizens and citizens, and that is indeed something that is the weak point of our entire system. However, the question arises whether this model proposed is an adequate model for achieving such a goal? I do not think that it is because evaluation and the possibility of progress should be looked at according to the work results, according to the improvement of certain business solutions and processes, rather than political similarity or internship. Unfortunately, it seems to me that in our administration, that our Government and the Ministry of Administration, which is the proposer of this bill, has not consulted enough with certain possibilities, modern opportunities and solutions that are being used today in some developed democratic systems, which is the introduction of a project management programme. Because it is through project management programmes that means there are in all public administration bodies that could be significantly easier and much more transparent in fact by our public administration which is now still one bureaucratic tromi system to turn into a transparent public service of citizens. In what way? Namely, the project management programme means that all tasks are guided and assisted by computer-led details in which at any moment it is seen at which stage, where the official, in which way and in which time, a certain part of the work must be done. In this way you can at any time any citizen who has a request to know at which point an object is found in solving it can be told precisely here it is, is there and there, at that stage of resolution and will be finished by then and then. This is very transparent and it is used not only in public administration systems in the world but also used in a large number of large corporations because it is thus controlled by the effect and the work results of every tenant or employee or anything else whether it is public administration or company. I can see there's no way to think about that model here. I think it is bad because it would avoid such an ad hoc or political decision on how to evaluate someone's work, because it would be seen exactly how tasks are done, in which time it is on average necessary to perform a task, who is able to perform a task in a much shorter time and with a favourable or good quality result or one that works faster but his work results are not so satisfactory. And just on the basis of such measurable things, you can give a satisfactory assessment of who and how it works. Unfortunately, there is still a situation with us in the public administration so that inside the system leaders evaluate for their sympathies and antipathies, and you in this way whether someone is fired or not may get fired may happen that some official is underrated precisely because for some reason, whether he is politically similar or simply because he is antipathetic to a leader or head of staff and is given a lower grade than he deserves and thus is actually prevented from progressing in his service. When we talk about the mobility of officials, that the mobility of officials is necessary, but not based on the antipathy or sympathy of the head of the body who may at some point wish to get rid of officials who are not the same political colour or political omen, and that should also develop the ways and modes of that mobility. And as far as outsourcing is concerned, what's going to happen to system builders who are currently doing cleaning, catering or canteens, I at least failed to read it from this bill, so I'd like the secretary of state to answer us in that way how he plans to take care of these employees in public administration bodies. Whether it will be through their employment in certain services that will take over as outsourced companies and businesses or in any other way, because it can also cause very big earthquakes regarding these people and their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70560	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70561	Talk to your colleagues about the need to depolitize. Here's what you see and when the Civil Service Act was passed in 2008, what it looks like after that and before that since 2005, the sixth one where it's constantly talking about depolitisation, what does it look like? Namely, the violation of official duty under Article 47 under point 9 "the conduct of a civil servant against the ethical code is when damage to the reputation of the service is done". Let us remember all the speakers of the then Ministry of Agriculture, now known as Pavic, who insulted and discriminated on the basis of the marital status of Ljubica Laic, then the Minister of Agriculture, Cobankovic, claimed that there was no violation of the ethical code. Today he's after that and he's even taking an adventure. And in the meantime, she was punished just because she wronged the officer's ethical code that she had caused damage to the reputation of the service because she had no hairstyle. That state official with the VSS has a salary below 5,000 kuna, two children raised and charged with a large loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70562	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mrela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70563	Well colleagues Ingrid you are absolutely right and exactly the problem in our entire system is that the laws are read and interpreted and implemented in the way that it suits people who are in a position to implement the laws. And as long as that's how we can pass really and most qualitative laws, the best laws, but if there's no will, or if there's no ability to implement these laws in a way that's objective and transparent, then we're going to have these situations that you're describing. And in that case such a serious violation will actually be interpreted as being completely normal, and in another situation something which is a matter of personal human rights of each individual will be interpreted as a serious violation of official duty which shows that in the whole system, total chaos and anarchy are worth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70564	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mirjana Ferić Vac. She's not losing her right to debate. Dear Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70565	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in the procedure of regular procedure. The application of the applicable Law on civil servants has identified certain problems and their resolution is proposed by these amendments and amendments. The proposal also complies with the provisions of this law with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on civil servants is indeed comprehensive, so I will refer to the most important changes in my presentation. The proposal provides the possibility for external service providers to carry out auxiliary technical and other activities of the furniture. The newspapers are the fill-in of public authorities’ vacancy, in particular, of the publication of an internal advertising public tender, the choice of candidates in the public tender and internal advertising process, and the suspension of the election procedure. With regard to the costs of the expert examination, the proposal is to carry, for the first time, the costs of the examinations by the state authority referred to in the examination, while the costs of the second laying would be borne by the civil servant himself. I welcome the proposal, which gives the opportunity to accept the professional training of young people without establishing a working relationship through a traineeship in order to ensure that the conditions for working in the bodies of the state administration are met. It also introduces the possibility of a temporary appointment of leading civil servants to the elections through a public tender in time of a maximum of 6 months in order not to endure management tasks. It is also proposed that a civil servant may, for the sake of the need for the service, be referred to another State body for the longest time in a year with a written agreement by the head of the body in which the Head of State is working and the head of the body to which it is referred, and that the complaint against the transfer solution does not delay the implementation of the solution which encourages a measure to increase the mobility of civil servants. The paper is interesting when assessing civil servants in order to achieve the purpose of evaluation, which is to encourage civil servants to carry out quality jobs and respect their official duties. In this sense, a "successful" assessment is proposed for an officer who has the necessary competences and who does quality work... evaluations "e.g." and "exceptional" for those officers who are extremely creative and achieve greater results than anticipated. [[You don't understand.]] Lower grades are "satisfactory" and "unsatisfactory". The proposal referred to by a state official as "satisfactory" shall refer to additional professional training or be moved to another post. A state official who has been assessed as "unsatisfactory" ceases the state service on the day of the implementation of the evaluation solution. In a similar way, evaluation and replacement shall be prescribed. Furthermore, the responsibility of the union commissioner for the violation of official duty is introduced while the provisions on violations of official duty are complemented in a way that increases the number of both minor and severe injuries. From severe injuries to official duty, it is necessary to highlight the coming to work under the influence of alcohol or drugs or to influence them during working hours. It also regulates the way alcohol and drugs are tested. It is an important paper that is proposed to continue the procedure for serious violations of official duty after the termination of the state service and, on the basis of the established factual situation, to decide on liability without giving a sentence. In the event of the determination of responsibility for a serious breach of duty, a ban may be imposed on the state service at a time of one to four years. Proposing the introduction of the possibility of an emergency dismissal to the civil servant will certainly cause a number of debates. Therefore, this proposed provision should be more clearly explained and regulated, taking into account and the possibility of the termination of the state service in the procedure carried out in view of the serious violation of the official duty. In view of the above, I am of the opinion that these amendments and additions really propose important changes in the system of official rights and obligations. I will therefore support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, and I expect the Proposer to accept all the quality remarks and proposals in the debate and install them in the final draft of the law. I believe that, following the final proposal and the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, the adoption of a special law will finally follow the adoption of a law laying down the salaries of civil servants and employees in the public sector in such a way as to provide for a reward according to work and results in work or efficiency in order to implement the principle of equal pay for equal work, i.e. work of equal value, which is precisely prescribed in the provision of Article 10. Law on civil servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70566	Thank you. It's time for the Honorable Representative Boris Kunst, come in. You're pulling. Then it's up to the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And then we came to the esteemed representative of Damir Sesvecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70567	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here are the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants that are ahead of us and I will immediately say which I support, based on several strategic documents that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has brought from 2008 to today. These are the State Administration Reform Strategy for the 2008-2011 period of March 2008, then the Human Resources Development Strategy from December 2010-2013, and the April 2010 Economic Recovery Programme. Therefore, a number of questions are envisaged to follow the objectives outlined in this law, and in my debate, I will look only at some of them that I hold important, of course not underestimating everything else. First of all, this is the alignment with the General Administrative Procedure Act, which came into force as we know on 1 January 2010, for example in the section relating to the resolution of administrative matters relating to the exercise of the rights and obligations of civil servants. For example, compliance with the possibility of making a complaint against a solution which also decides on the rights and obligations of officials where the paper is to account for a period of 15 days from the date of delivery of the solution, not as before from the date of its receipt. I think it's a good solution because it prevents manipulation by not taking the solution and by delaying its enforceability. I also find it important to consider the amendments and additions relating to the area of evaluation of civil servants, which is also introduced in the same way as the substitutors, therefore by this law. As is said, this law aims to improve the system of evaluation of civil servants so that it would be an incentive for better quality work and a basis for rewarding officials for merits, knowledge, skills and skills in work. Accordingly, it is proposed not only to assess the effectiveness of the work of the officers but to assess the scope, quality and deadlines of the performance of the work, respect for the official duties as well as the behaviour, so the personal behaviour of the officers during the year. In particular, the evaluation of civil servants is specified, they are defined differently as we have seen the evaluation itself, the evaluation process is more precisely arranged until a solution is adopted and the way an assessment of the staff is taken, the education obligation and the category of education programmes, etc., so a number of other things is defined. However, I would especially like to stress that this law more precisely regulates the impact of the assessment on the position of a civil servant, the impact of poor assessments is being given in a way that suggests that an officer who has been assessed "is not satisfied" ceases the state service by force of the law. According to the current provisions of the law, so far the official should have been assessed by a negative assessment for two years consecutively in order to stop his employment relationship. Since the proposed provisions of this law, which in some way propose the liberalisation of possibilities, therefore the liberalisation of conditions for the termination of the employment relationship of officials have caused negative reactions, in particular by unions, should certainly be re-analysed until the second reading and try to bring this issue into line with the unions, of course other issues, and we heard from the promoters that these days talk about it. I mean, first of all, the introduction of an extraordinary layoff institute where it takes care not to make it possible to quit, or get fired for no good reason. So, some kind of self-will of a senior officer, but also not to allow for the protection of the unemployed. Therefore, those officers who do not do their job knowingly, responsibly, and in accordance with some minimum standard of quality of work and rules of profession. Therefore, it is necessary as precise as possible, as clear and unequivocally as possible to regulate this institution of extraordinary termination so that the impact of the free, discreet, or discretionary evaluation of the senior officials is allowed as little as possible. Here's why I'm going to support repeating this law once again in my first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70568	Thank you very much. The guest of Gordana Sobol is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I would like to warn, to assume some questions related to something that is before me and my colleague, Mirela Holly, also mentioned, and it concerns that part of the bill that speaks about external service providers, that is, what they say about the organisation, the needs of the service, that there will be the possibility of providing assistance and technical services to the external service providers in accordance with public procurement regulations. In fact, it's about those state-owned deputies working on jobs mostly helpful to say jobs like cleaning, such as perhaps canteen workers, probably part of waiters, catering services and other technical services in state administration bodies. So, in order to guess whether or not I'm looking for an answer whether it's going to mean it now, so that these workers and workers are being fired, whether the state will make sure they get new contracts in some companies that I'm going to think of and know in advance that they're going to make deals with the state eventually to do these jobs. What I would particularly like to warn is that the reasoning of Article 1, so the amendment and addition of this law is at least scandalous because you wrote that in the public body therefore there is often a problem of sickness, vacations and so on when it is necessary to provide for the replacement of the absent householder, when the question of the daily exploitation of the work of the tenants in some largely smaller state bodies. In other words, what does that mean? Does this mean that these workers are the ones who go to the sickest, take advantage of the goodness of the state, go on vacations, imagine going on vacations. Does this mean that they have more vacations than other workers and workers who are employed and are looking for an explanation for such an explanation? Because this argument to me is discriminatory and morally very questionable. Just as the union of civil servants and tenants assessed it, so he made one card for International Women's Day when he congratulated Women's Day on those women who are most likely to lose their jobs because of this law and because of this article. Why am I still saying that? For the sake of reminding all of us that in this category, most of the majority of women's labour are women with lower education, women who are otherwise discriminated against. And when they find themselves at the Employment Service in those categories, they're the hardest employees. I'm saying this today because it's only been two days since that Women's Day when many in this country have talked about the position of women, of the labour market, of employment, of this, of that. Now I wonder when they're at the Employment Service how we're going to deafen ourselves to getting a job? Will she perhaps enter that program in which, say, 300 women will be educated so that she can write her CV or that she can talk to a future employer? I repeat more than 85% of the labor force in this category, in the state services it's women. I repeat, low-level professional training is the most difficult one to employ. I am interested in who guarantees and how these women will find themselves in a working relationship with these entrepreneurs holding these different services, service services and the like. So, we're talking about the staff doing cleaning rooms, I'm talking about the catering staff and other technical services. So in that part of it, I'm looking for answers to these dilemmas, because otherwise it's really going to turn out that the state in this case is being dealt with as some excess, I guess. Or is it a real part of the state administration reform, and then the weakest get hurt first. I don't know, you probably won't even know how many people are working on these jobs right now. I guess you won't be able to answer me because before this, we were talking about a public administration register where it turns out you don't know how many people there are. But I'm warning and reminding you that also the attorney for gender equality a few years ago, more specifically in the 2006 report, has been working on an analysis of the sex structure of employees in our ministries, and where I would say this is a devastating situation for women to work on these lowest-ranked jobs. Here, and I'd like to ask if it's possible that today and before the second reading can explain itself to us. And I especially ask for an explanation about what you wrote in this bill, which is that these tenants often experience a problem of sickness, vacations and the like. Does that mean that you've been doing some sort of analysis, does that mean that you've been doing that they're going into sick leave. And secondly, what it means is that it would be more economical to trust service providers through service contracts. Because from the whole of this law and in those opening arguments, but in the end, there's no mention of what figures are and how much of a state is thought to save. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70570	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70571	Dear fellow Sobol, two days ago, we marked Women's Day on March 8th, so we all had the opportunity to talk about it and inform the public that women are just the women workers of the biggest victim of this economic crisis, which is especially visible in the textile industry sector, and this famous Kamensky case, where women are mostly and who end up on the road or even when they work fictitiously do not receive salaries and the like. What is sad, and what you have very well drawn attention to here in the Parliament, but also the entire Croatian public, is that the government, as an employer, has decided in some way to deal with the female sector, and perhaps, because of that, with such an inappropriate comment, is in fact explaining this measure of outsourcing services, so the question is whether today for the Croatian government, the problem is that there are women who are born, who have so-called "outsourcing services". Women's diseases, so maybe it's a way for one day in the near future that the government as an employer will also be led by the fact that women should basically sign a certain obligation that they will not have children, and that they will probably be sterilized or something like that. A truly sad example.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70572	I'm sorry, Your Honor, but this law thing really has nothing to do with it, and even less with the debate of the distinguished representative Gordana Sobol, who just backed it up as a fact, she did, and you were just talking about it. Come on, let's stick to the subject. Here you go. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70573	I thank my colleagues, Holly. I'm actually going to say this, namely everything that's been going on in recent years, and when it comes to women's problems in the labour market, and that's what I'm talking about, because in the state administration, if we excuse two large ministries where men, the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Defence are mostly men, then also in the state administration, most women work in the ministries. If I'm not mistaken somewhere, the ratio is 58 to 42%. And that there will be women who will probably be the most connected part about this, let's call, state administration reform. And I have to say that my grief is actually a fact, since I read somewhere today that Minister Poppie is on the government, representing some kind of guarantee fund for women entrepreneurs, said it was part of a week of women's markings. I didn't know there was a week of women. To which the prime minister replied that women should be given a place where the money is and where the power is. I'm afraid what this says here, what the government is unfortunately doing, or still what it's not doing, doesn't contribute to women being in places where money and power are. I would say that, unfortunately for Croatia, the exact fact that one of our colleagues said the other day at a NDP meeting where she said that for the Croatian state, an unemployed man is a problem, but an unemployed woman is a housewife.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70574	Thank you. I'd like to pray that we stick to... agenda and topic. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Dear Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70575	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am, at the very beginning of my debate, going to say that I absolutely support this bill, with a note of course that this law is in the first reading. And all those proposals and remarks that we have had the opportunity to hear in the debate so far, which concerns improving permanent institutes, and some of the representatives of the club MPs, I don't think there's any reason why at least some of them shouldn't be accepted, in terms of making a final bill, and therefore that the institutes, in particular the new institutes provided for by this law, are even better, even more precisely, so that we have a better law. Of all these new institutes, which I find unusually important and unusually important to emphasize in this debate, I've singled out four. There have been a lot of words about them in the debates so far, but I think there is also a need to further highlight the very institutes which, in my opinion, the system itself is certainly improving. The first of these institutes, of course, refers to compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. It's like, in terms of new laws, making new laws, definitely obligations, and of course it should be supported, and I haven't heard anyone or noticed who's against it. It is about the process, the norms of a procedural and legal nature, compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and they absolutely need to be supported and accepted, and it is about resolving administrative matters, it is about those deadlines for appeal, it is about the deadlines for repealing and abolishing the solutions adopted in the administrative procedure itself. The second institute that I think is worth emphasising, and we find it in this bill, concerns strengthening administrative inspection supervision of the application of laws and other regulations. In my opinion, the unusually important institute, not only for inspection, what is said for inspection, but in order to remove all the irregularities or shortcomings that we have seen in the current functioning of the administration, and in short lines, it is that, in the same fact and legal basis, different solutions are being made, or in the same factual and legal basis, we are coming to a period of time or unnecessary lengthy procedures, which ultimately result in judicial disputes, there is silence of administration and therefore, those situations that are inappropriate, which are precisely these inspection supervisions can in any way be removed, and that all together creates one and practice, the practice of functioning of the administration which, therefore, the institutes that we need to support. The third institute, or the third thing that I want to stress, some of the distinguished representatives have touched these things, but I don't think they've highlighted enough her positive things, especially positive things with regard to young, educated people, who are first involved in the world of work or in the world of work within the state administration, and that's professional training without a working relationship, to gain the job experience needed to get into service and schedule on the job. So it's a newspaper, this paper needs to be seen, recognized and supported, because for the first time we have the opportunity for a young man who finishes college, so without starting a working relationship to enter the world of work, it allows him to even pass a professional exam and the suggestions that I support are that the costs of this professional exam are reduced to the least possible measure if they can't be released already, and that his work experience is to him, what is being said in the work experience, in terms of the possibility of competition for a job or future start-up of a working relationship. In today's conditions, so certainly this thing should be highlighted, it is a good message, a good legal solution, and I hope that young people will take advantage of this possibility within the system of state administration, and that this will make it easier for you to enter the world of work. And the fourth or fourth institute, it's the institute when we talk about disciplinary responsibility or responsibilities of government employees. When we're talking about this thing in principle, then we're full of order, work, discipline, efficiency, we're calling on the Austrian-Hungarian institutes 100 years ago, 200 years ago, and in fact it's essentially a relationship between employees within the state administration and their jobs. And when we come to this fact that for those who do not do good work, who are doing serious damage to work obligations in a system in which we are, as we have not had so far, I would say so, the mechanism that such behaviours are primarily defined, and since they are defined that in one normal process or procedure such responsibility is, if such situations have been established and that the basis of the procedure provided for, that responsibility can, of course, be established in those difficult situations, lead to the end of the working relationship. I agree with all those who wish to objectify the whole situation, so that the criteria, regardless of the serious or easier violations of the labour obligation, are maximumly objectively objective, to prescribe procedural norms or norms of procedural nature in order to define what constitutes a serious breach of the labour obligation and the way it is established in order to raise the entire process of accountability, hence the disciplinary responsibilities in the state administration system to one qualitatively higher level, and which should again result in the effectiveness of the work in the system of state administration. So this law should be supported. He's in first reading. We know that certain norms, some institutes we have had the opportunity to hear this in the opening presentation submitted by the State Secretary on behalf of the Proposer, are still talking to the social partners, are still polished, i.e. we are still looking for the best possible solutions for certain legal provisions and there is no doubt that in the time ahead, so until the second reading, we will try to find the best possible solutions. This law as a new law should be passed and in this sense my full support for this regulation in first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70576	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is the esteemed representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Tomljanovic is asked to commend volunteering in the state administration as you presented it. In fact, you're stressing that the welcome newspaper is that the graduates at the university can be involved in the state volunteering administration. Well, it's governmental exploitation of the labour market situation. Instead of paying experts to perfect and train in traineeship practice she uses the situation on the labour market and says come practice and work for us, learn, but we will not pay you. Such an approach can only be commended if we do not have a whole system designed to involve young, educated and trained in the world of work as you say it on a regular basis. So, don't take advantage of opportunities and keep it on traineeship practice for another 2 years and don't pay and use it to work without being financed by his parent. That's not a good message, that's a bad message. It's a very bad message and it should be said just like I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70578	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70579	Quite the opposite, dear colleague, and I'm sorry you misunderstood this good legal institute. What's this about? You're talking about a college graduate. What kind of expert is that? You and I were experts when we graduated college? We finished college, we got a degree, we didn't have a day of work or any idea what our job would look like, and for any competition, the conditions were minimum 6 months of work, traineeship and so forth. And also wherever the competitions occurred at that time, and so it is today, an appropriate job job was sought. And you know very well that's how it is. What does this institute offer? This institute offers that someone enters the world without establishing a working relationship, but it is recognised to him precisely in this internship that will benefit him for future work and, more importantly, enables him to pass a professional exam. Where can you get a serious job at the state administration without a state-run expert's examination? And the conditions for you to take that exam and take it. We even supported those solutions to allow these young people to pass a state exam for free. And now you're gonna tell me it's the same situation as when someone graduates from college and gets a degree and wants to get a job and wants to work. That this is, in another way, possible for him to enter this board world, pass a state-run expert exam, and then compete in all competitions at one, let's say more equal, more favourable and better way than if this institute were not there. Unfortunately, I think you've got this institute all wrong, but what do we do?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70580	Thank you. And another replica, the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70581	A respected colleague behind better or worse legal institutes stands real lives and real people. The person who graduated from college you say is incapable of working and doesn't know anything about it, you have rudely offended all those who work at colleges and who educate those young people on the one hand. On the other hand, this volunteering means that young people at the age of 23, 24, 25 when they need to start their families and start their lives will be happy with the compensation of 1600 kuna unless they have previously had one month’s work experience. I ask you why this law does not stand as it has been until now to establish a working relationship as a trainee and thus earn 70% of the salary accordingly? Why are we legalizing people to work for free? I'm not saying that people with college graduates and those with years of internships know the same and can do a certain job equally. There's experience on the side of one side, there's new knowledge on the other side. Therefore, it is very ungrateful to compare such things, but to say that it is good for people to work for free – no. I'd prefer it if you'd advocate it, if the system of state administration would allow students to volunteer and get calls during the study. I got a call from a colleague who's studying international relations. No single state institution wanted to accept to volunteer and practice in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. It will be done in the institutions of the Republic of Slovenia. Student, a Croatian citizen studying international relations. There that volunteering during the course of the studies in order to acquire practical titles, but completed people who from the country get a certificate, or a diploma to have a certain profession, to legalise that they work for the state for free and that's good, a colleague it's not good at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70582	Thank you. I must tell you that he did not tell the distinguished representative Tomljanovic that with the university he knew nothing, but that they were not experts. That's right, not that he doesn't know anything. I'm sorry, being a top expert and not knowing anything is a big difference. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanovic responds to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70583	So the answer to the replica, thank you for intervening in this reply to the replica, I'll say the following, so incorrectly you hurt the Businessman and you insult when you say that I said that someone with a college of ignorants and unprofessionals and incompetents. I didn't say any of that, and let it serve you honor. At the end of the line, I can expect it from you. So, by one I didn't say it, and yet completely one good legal institute you twist and interpret it the way you want it to be. So, this institute allows someone to enter the world of work without starting a work relationship, to acquire expertise after a university, to pass a state expert exam, to enable them to even pass it free of charge so that they can compete in all those jobs where the basic prerequisite is some kind of a job internship and a state-run professional exam and nothing else. It's pure demagogy, you're now using some kind of twisting of something that I didn't say I just don't know why. And maybe even in practice you know someone who immediately became an expert in his field of education who may have even mastered, doctored, but I don't know. So whoever finished and got to a diploma, a young, smart and capable man who didn't have a job and who didn't do a traineeship, if you want to go to a court that's closest to me who didn't pass a judicial exam, so what can he do to whom in the judiciary and the justice system can compete? What can he be without a judicial examination? Could he be a judge? He can't. Could he be a lawyer? He can't. Can he represent the company where the value of the case is slower than 50 thousand kuna? He can't. This is a system that enables comparisons to work in these and such situations so that people still gain knowledge and more work experience that they can rightly translate their knowledge into work tomorrow or live from their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70584	Bring the end. Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, the esteemed Edmond Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70585	Thank you very much. I very much thank you for many interesting remarks we will take into account when correcting this text. But I'd still have to look back on a few things. First, this law does not apply to public services as some of the MPs have claimed, only to the state service system. Secondly, I have to be very reserved on behalf of 52 thousand 691 employees of state services, of which 2 thousand 759 tenants, that they are all unprofessional, incompetent and corrupt, etc. Those must have been my colleague Holly talking about it in a very general way. These are certain phenomena that exist in the functioning of the state service to be avoided, but generalising on all employees it is not at least appropriate. Now, there's been a lot of talk today about this proposal for a standard that talks about an extraordinary cancellation and then a lot of qualifications like not knowing how to politicize nepotism, abuse of position, etc. I don't think things need to be pulled out of context. Croatia is not really a country that is legally unregulated. The system of legal protection of civil servants and subsistence shall take place in the context of a legally regulated procedure called the administrative procedure. Therefore, any act deciding on the rights and obligations of civil servants is an administrative act which means that it must be detailed, that it must be based on facts. It is also not the only provision of an extraordinary dismissal that has discretionary powers or a free assessment as stated in the General Administrative Procedure Act. At the end of any organization you have to have one level of which any manager has some discretion, because otherwise the issue of the organization as a whole is being raised, then we have a collective decision on everything. Of course, this provision that I have pointed out about the extraordinary cancellation should be completed, if it remains in this bill, in any case it should be completed, but it is nothing new or anything that deviates from the average practice either in other countries. When we talk about this specific provision that speaks of an extraordinary dismissal, so I agree that it should be strengthened, even the minister said that it should be strengthened to be the only qualified form of some... state officials that would take into account the application of this provision. But the most important thing is that no matter who applies such a provision if it is in law, he has to explain it well. The Administrative Procedure Act states that the solutions adopted on the basis of the free assessment must be well explained. In the end, it's not even a new institute and it's always been that way. This provision, in fact, poses more danger than irresponsible leaders, than a threat to the officers themselves. Because what I said in the opening statement, because of the irresponsible behaviour of individual leaders when they abuse their powers where they need to explain certain decisions, the state loses its disputes after 7, 8 years and then it comes to a charge. That is why this provision needs a fat explanation and should not be seen as a key problem in the official system. What it's all about are extreme situations and if it comes to them it's something that is really very rarely applied. Of course, I am not running away from the need to explain this well and that the simple burden of evidence should be placed on the manager if he wants to reach out for such a provision. Something about tenants. I'm the one who said that 2759 tenants are according to our latest data. We usually have data on the weekly database by any subsistence of any clerks so that of course it's possible that I'm wrong, but it's a very small number if I'm wrong. I think what is written in the bill is simply not well read, or quite another content is given from what it says. Therefore, depending on the organisation and needs of the service, these activities may be performed by external service providers in accordance with public procurement regulations. So, exceptionally, no one is saying that now all the accommodations will be abolished, no one is saying that all these jobs will be done by external service providers. In the end, you have a whole series of state bodies where for security reasons it's easy to apply such a provision, such an exception impossible. You have the police, the secret service, the president's office, etc., etc. where you have to have people checked out who are there every day. This is something that exists in almost everyone or in most cases, such a possibility of official legislation. It's just a possibility, but that doesn't mean that now all the tenants, so 2759, are going to be fired, or they're going to be cut off. As for that argument, surely the intensity wasn't like that, in the end it was written by women who were mothers and I'm guessing they didn't have that aspect that you were talking about and the intention of hurting a female. I didn't even read it like that. It's about bodies where you have three cleaners, two of which are always sick or three cleaners, whatever you want. So it's just a matter of doing business. Of course that thing can be interpreted exactly as you said, and then I think we need to take care of it. But it certainly wasn't the first or the last intention. The interns, as far as I could understand, you understood that the work experience gained outside the working relationship to pay for it now. Well, no one has abolished the training institute by this law. They will continue to be admitted to the state service and will have regular salaries. But this is just allowing people outside the state service to gain what's called work experience, work experience on relevant jobs, not having that barrier when applied to individual jobs. But, well, I thank you, and we'll consider these remarks of yours, and I'll try to come up with a better proposal for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70586	Thank you. We have one correction. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70587	Mr. Vice President. Explaining why the reasoning of Article 1 is stated as Mr. Secretary of State says it is not true that there was such a tendencyal intention. But Mr. Secretary of State, it's true that it's obvious from, it's totally inappropriate to say that it was written by women. It doesn't matter if they wrote women or whether they were written by men. This argument must have gone through your hands, through the hands of the minister, through the hands of the government, so I guess someone could see that what it says here is absolutely discriminatory in relation to anyone, in this case with regard to these tenants.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70588	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70589	We move to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, this is the first reading, P.Z. Number 719. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am giving the vote the following conclusion: "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants and 2nd all objections to proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law". Let's please get involved and vote on the conclusion. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 85 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 19 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70590	We now skip item 5, this is the Proposal for a Law on Cooperatives because there are no proposings and we are going to process the point we put into the agenda today, that is - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 726 Proposer: Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Stjepan Adanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70591	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. As you can see, the process of drawing up a new bill was launched for the reason that the European Commission has been in the common position of the European Union since 18 December 2009 relating to the fulfilment of the obligations set out in Chapter 19. Social policy and employment require a clear installation into national law of the protection of motherhood, meaning pregnant women, nursing mothers and workers who have given birth, since this is not covered by the Law on maternity and parental support, but also by the legislation in the field of labour and protection at work. This draft draft law provides for a Council Directive 92/85 of the European Economic Community on the introduction of measures to improve the health of pregnant women and workers who have recently given birth or breast-feeding at the workplace of pregnant workers, workers who have recently given birth and the right to a day off for prenatal inspection. The duration of compulsory maternity leave of an employed and self-employed mother under the Directive as an exclusive right to the protection of motherhood from 10 weeks shall be extended to 14 weeks of compulsory maternity leave. Mandatory births cannot be passed on to a father unlike the child’s additional birth to the 6th month of a child’s life. The length of compulsory maternity leave from working for unemployed mothers and compulsory maternity care for mothers outside the work system and seeking employment from 42 days was extended to 70 days after the birth of a child. The amount of cash compensation of 80% of the budget base during the use of an additional 60 days of parental leave added to regular parental leave if the child's father uses the right to parental leave for 3 months at that time. I must point out here that by entering the European Union, parental leave will last at least 8 months of which the mother is used for 4 months and 4 months by the father. Since these four months, only three months are portable from father to mother and vice versa. The possibility to transfer users' rights from one parent to another users who are not the same working legal status, additional flexibility and avoiding, for example, situations where this right could not be transferred from an unemployed mother who is hardly ill with an unemployed father, or an employed father. That the right to leave, to work in half full-time for the care of a child with severe health damage can start to benefit immediately after the used maternity leave since it is now prescribed that parents can only start using this right to parental leave. There we have had criticisms from the Office of the Public Attorney and Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities and we think that here we have now made a quality solution that is actually confirmed by NGOs, or the Roda Association, who has directly stated that this law is more than expected than they have actually suggested before. A new way is introduced to calculate the amount of parents' salary that uses the right to work in half full-time for child care since parents ask for taxes, contributions and taxes to them for the second half of full-time. This provision should remove those ambiguities, and in an explicit way, it should be prescribed what makes the compensation and how it is accounted for for by the parents who are employed, and how it is for the parents who carry out their own activity. This provision is governed by the proposal of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that the use of leave by both adopters under Council Directive 92/85 of the European Economic Community particularly points out adopters as beneficiaries of the right, and the amount of compensation during the application of the right to adoption leave could be transferred to another adoptor, unlike the current solution in the law. The right of foreigners with the status of asylum seekers or persons under subsidiary protection for maternity and parental support. This is an obligation under Council Directive 204/83 EC of 29 April 2004. In addition to this law, these amendments and additions to the law have been carried out both nomotechnical, conceptual and gender coherence of the text of certain norms in order to make it easier and clearer for them to apply, as well as to comply with the terms and regulations in the field of work and protection at work. In addition, the Office for Health Insurance for the Data Verification in the process of recognition and in the control of the application of the rights conferred under this law is empowered to exercise its powers, and to make clear the supervision of the implementation of the law by the Ministry responsible for the family. It should be noted here that the European Commission has given a positive opinion on the text of the draft bill and I think we have made one good law, or one good amendment and addition of the existing law, and that it goes absolutely in favour of all our parents, fathers and mothers. Finally, I will also mention, that is, the amendments, two amendments to the Legislative Committee that this committee has given at today's session, which we have also accepted on the committee. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70592	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Nedjak Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a law that meets the obligations of Chapter 19. – Social policy and employment, as Mr Secretary of State has said, which is being incorporated into national legislation for the protection of motherhood and is, of course, in line with the legislation of the European Union. The Law on maternity and parental support, which has been applied since the beginning of 2009 in a direct way, promotes birth, protects motherhood, helps to bring family and professional obligations into line and stimulates greater and greater participation of fathers in early raising and child rearing. Its application certainly contributed to the quality of family life. It should be said that, in addition to the objectives achieved, they are listed in the national population policy, there has been a huge shift and a step towards improving and expanding the family support system, free choice of parents in the way parents are used and redefine the role of the current family support system. Thanks to the most promising measures, a positive trend in the growth of the number of newborn children from previous years has been continued, and of course we must constantly highlight this because national population policy is also pursuing this. In addition, new legal solutions have been positively accepted by parents themselves. This applies particularly to the delay in the application of the right to parental leave immediately after the expiry of the right to maternity leave and the increase in the number of fathers in the application of the right. This law aims to further strengthen its innovative effect, which will allow parents to become more involved in the world of work without loss of rights, rather than exercise rights. Employees and self-employed parents can use parental leave until the eighth year of a living child, and parents outside the work system are allowed to work without losing their right in the unused part of maternity, i.e. parental or childcare. This law further strengthens the protection of pregnant workers, workers who have recently given birth and women who are breast-feeding as well as the introduction of a day off for prenatal examination. There will also be an increase in the number of persons and is expected of about 10% or 15% in the use of parental leave. The number of fathers will increase because the right to parental leave of 180 days, or 6 months in total, is extended for an additional 60 days. With Croatia's entry into the European Union, parental leave will last at least 8 months, of which 4 months will be used by the mother and 4 months by the father. Since these four months, three months are portable from father to mother and vice versa. In addition, it is possible to transfer from one parent to another who is not the same working legal status, so for example, the right to an unemployed mother who is ill will be passed on to a working father. The extended period of compulsory maternity leave from 70 to 98 days will certainly contribute to the protection of the health of the working and self-employed mother and newborn child. This amendment significantly extended the period of right to compulsory maternity leave. This law will also contribute to clarity, which is not irrelevant, in the application of certain norms, and especially when one parent uses the right to leave in the full-time care of a child with severe developmental disturbances or in the application of the right to adoption leave. Exactly what makes cash compensation for the second half to full-time, with net wages, and for the employed parents, and those who carry out their own activities, is prescribed. It is also clearer to use leave for both adoptors, so it is possible to transfer the right to another adoptor, and so far it has not been possible. This law extended the circle of users to a special vulnerable social group of asylum seekers, and a person under subsidiary protection. In any case, this is a contribution to further affirmation of the protection of human rights and freedoms. As the Secretary of State said, Mr Adanic said that the European Commission gave a positive opinion on this text of the law, it should repeat once more that the Office of the Ombudsman for Children, as well as the Office of the Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities, as well as the Roda Association, also gave their full support for the adoption of such a law. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will also support the adoption of this very high-quality law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70594	Thank you. It's next to the HNS Club, HSU, the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that the HNS and HSU will also support this bill. And at the very beginning, I'll say, Mr. Secretary of State, I think you've made a small mistake, the Legislative Committee has tabled four amendments to this bill, that the truth is, God is nomotechnical, but four. We understand each other. There is a proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to amend the Law on maternity and parental support in a way that extends the duration of mandatory maternity leave from 70 to 98 days, to regulate the transfer of rights from one parent to another parent who is not in equal working status, to regulate the compensation for additional leave when used by fathers, to regulate work more precisely in half the working time for the care of a child with severe developmental disturbances, a new way is introduced to calculate wages for such work. The proposal for this law introduces the extension of established users of the rights under this law to the social group of asylum seekers, and persons under subsidiary responsibility, and gives users an even more flexible access to the labour market, in particular to the unemployed and those who are outside of the work and job-seeking system. This proposal of the Law on maternity and parental support is harmonized, as already stated by Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union, and some Council directives, which improves the protection of pregnant workers, workers who have recently given birth, breast-feeding workers, and is normatively and institutionally improving the application of the law. Once again, for these reasons, the HNS Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70596	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. This law is in line with European legislation, and therefore all these changes are going in this direction and I say at first that the SDP club will also support this law. This law aims, as we have heard and, earlier in discussions, to further strengthen its optimal effect, to enable greater involvement of parents in the world of work without loss of achieved rights and to strengthen the protection of pregnant women, workers, who have recently given birth, workers who have recently given birth, breast-feeding workers, and, of course, continue the trend of increasing involvement. However, I would say that the fall of standards is precisely what seems to be the main reason for the growing number of children in families and in transition countries, as well as in the advanced world. We think that just raising standards, or creating conditions of normal life, is actually the key to greater birth. Let us not forget the gap between the private sector, which imposes longer working hours and up to 10 hours of working hours, and greater commitment to work, and to the public where kindergartens have unadjusted working hours, where school classes are very often in two or three shifts, hence deciding on parenting in such situations is not easy. Bringing a child into the world, let alone provide him with financial resources for the coming years, so parents should be responsible from the beginning. I would refer to a few articles, so it is precise now that certain concepts of pregnant women, the working woman who is born, the breast-feeding worker, are then detailedly prescribed the rights of the custodian whose underage child is entrusted with the conservation and education decision, then listed as the beneficiary of the right to foster a minor with the right to time support according to his working status, working status, but without the right to financial support, because that form of the right is governed by social care regulations. Then, in addition to Article 13 of this article, when looking at the provisions of this article, they speak, i.e. they protect pregnant workers, workers who give birth to children, including any form of employer’s self-will, i.e. avoiding the application of the prescribed employer’s obligations, I also welcome that. However, the return to work and protection against the termination of a pregnant woman, who also gave birth to women who are breast-feeding, has not been established by this law. A more quality solution to this bill and concerns a mother's leave with a child with developmental disturbances. We also welcome the decision that birth permits will be 8 months by entering the EU, that there will be 4 for father, 4 for mother, or the possibility of moving from right to right from one to the other for at least three months. However, the primary issue of parenting decisions is primarily the issue of ensuring the conditions of organisational, material and other as necessary preconditions for family enlargement. It is not, or should not be the primary goal of isolateing a woman from the world of work, but should provide quality support for raising a child without neglecting her work at the same time. This is viewed exclusively through the prism of mothers and parents, and only secondaryly as a member of the community, which can make a significant contribution in social, economic, scientific and other aspects. Despite the existence of a number of strategic documents and legislative solutions, we are witnessing that women in Croatia are today unequal and discriminated against in many areas. In the current circumstances of the economic crisis, the situation of the woman has been particularly deteriorated, which is what we have heard these days. That is why we must agree with the saying that in the circumstances of the economic crisis, poverty still has a woman's sound, or female face. I would stress here one of the forms of inequality which is also directly involved in the fall of birth, i.e. the possible fall of birth, which is precisely the conclusion of a contract at a certain time. This is a particular pain specific to our society, and the UNDP confirms in 2007 that as much as 85% of the contracts are concluded for a certain time and that most are women. In our country, only the establishment of a working relationship for an indefinite period of time can protect a woman from being fired, or it can act positively on the most intelligent policy. Women are those who are far more exposed to violations of the right to work in a working relationship and we know examples that very often is the main question whether you have given birth, how much you have given birth, whether you intend to give birth. The very interesting data is precisely on the topic of maternity and parental support is from a survey conducted by the Office of Advocates for Gender Equality when women and 48.3 surveyed women want to have 2 children compared to 25.6% of how many there are in reality. Then 14.8% wants three children, compared to 9.3 who actually have them. I just mentioned the availability of the service, now I'm gonna do it again. As regards the availability of child care services, children are known mainly to protect mothers in combination with family members. According to UNDP data in Croatia, only 15% of children aged 1-3 years stay in organised accommodation. Children's kindergartens, homes for elderly and powerless persons do not exist or have insufficient accommodation capacity or are too expensive. And of course that still gives you an additional problem. The burden of caring for these categories often falls on the shoulders of women. Then I would also mention the project "saten" which should be revived and which, of course, we welcome as the possibility and greater employment of women, but also as a contribution to child care. However, as we see because of the lack of compliance with the legislative legislation, this is causing recommendations. I would mention here a housing policy where there is no quality program that would allow young couples to acquire first real estate, and about the possible expansion of property for the expansion of family members if I didn't talk. As we can see, the problem of women's position is multiple and, of course, such a solution requires a truly sustainable and long-term population policy. However, as many of these indicators point to the deep problems facing women in Croatia, we welcome this legislative proposal that will, of course, help in the realization of motherhood, which will protect pregnant women and breast-feeding, and I would particularly refer to the positive initiative of a greater participation of fathers at an early age for children whom I believe is proposed not only in the spirit of gender equality but also in terms of a more effective and appropriate relationship with regard to parenting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70598	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go. You're giving up? Okay, thank you very much. And then there's the Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. The Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol is your turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70599	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to, so just maybe warn a few things about the problem that comes out of this law. In fact, by welcoming those amendments and additions to this law that go primarily to make the provisions very clear because so far, at least in the application of certain rights, different interpretations have occurred in different services, and ultimately the children themselves, or the parents who have used or were able to apply these rights, have been the most damaged. What I would ask all of us, which is related to the general application of the rights arising from maternity leave, that is, the right of this law, that is, our kind of years of trying to get into this problem, that is, what we call child rearing from the earliest age of as many fathers as possible. I mean, I think it's still a devastating fact, not thinking that in some countries it's closer or further, much better, but I think we should talk about it. So, I think it's a devastating fact for us that, after all this data that the Ministry has given us, statistics show that when you take into account all, all possible rights, the fees that come from certain positions of only 1.8% of fathers in relation to mothers used one of these rights. And the devastating fact is that only about a hundred fathers each year use the possibility of some form of parental leave compared to thousands and thousands of mothers. And somehow, it seems to me that as the years go by, we will continue to satisfy ourselves in just that, and of course here, I want to say that neither joining the EU is going to help us much in this fight to try to make as many fathers tend to use their obligation as possible, rather than their right to participate in raising children from the earliest age. In fact, we have witnessed that recently, although the European Parliament has adopted the truth with a narrow majority, the possibility of, or the obligation to extend the compulsory maternity leave to 20 weeks, and not 14 such as today, a minimum maternity leave and then, within that, at least two weeks, that it will be mandatory for the fathers, unfortunately, the Council of Ministers has rejected it. So it's something unfortunately I have to think about and see what it's all about to do. I'm saying this because I'm going back to women on the labour market and their problems when it comes to their employment. When we talk about women on the labour market and when we talk about the employment of women, the opportunities to hire me constantly and the need to reconcile family and professional life. One of the things that we're talking about in this case is finding a way for fathers to get more involved in raising children and at that earliest age and then later. I still think unfortunately that in that part, we're a little out of battle, because I personally don't believe that what we're giving through this law is going to encourage a little more fathers or a little more fathers or ten percent of fathers than we have so far, which means that somewhere next year we're going to talk about 110 fathers who used this or 120. Watch if he's using between 10 and 110 fathers today that possibility of using parental leave, and we say that in the following year he's going to increase by 10 to 15%. How much is that? It's 10 fathers a year more will use that possibility. No matter how much you've projected twice as much funds instead of $120,000, it's said that that's exactly what 230 grand are going to be allocated to, I'm actually interested in what it is. And I'm particularly interested in whether there are other options in the government that we might be able to tie this use of parental leave by our fathers to other privileges that we might then be able to get a family like that. So in that part, I think there are still untapped possibilities and it can be done better. So, I welcome the amendments and additions to this law in all the parts that they mean improvement, clarity, the exercise of rights and as few problems as possible to say both red tape and administration when a right is to be achieved. But I also use this law as I used the one before to warn once again that in that part of the harmonisation of family and professional obligations when women in this part of the care of children or the participation of fathers in child rearing at the earliest age, unfortunately we have not yet been able to do enough. And in that part of the protection of pregnant women when, say, hiring when job talks, etc. So in that part, when it comes to women on the labour market, we also haven't done enough. What I am also warning myself is that this is the case that the attorney is quite concerned about whether pregnancy is a disease or not that in certain cases this interpretation of HZZO has this one case which is the most true media knowledge when HZZO found it medically assisted insemination that this woman was unable to establish a working relationship since it was a risky pregnancy, so it was declared that she was sick and that she had abolished all her rights, and so far it has not been resolved, regardless of the prosecutor's opinion and the solution to discrimination against that woman because of her pregnancy. So here's my debate going in to point out not only to the government but to all of us that maybe in that part we haven't done enough yet. And to say I always kind of think about not having fathers involved in raising children, but about the rights of fathers to participate in raising children from the earliest age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70600	Thank you. Corrections. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70601	I mean this institute correcting an incorrect quote to actually deny the figures that you're presenting here, Mrs. Sobol. You said it was a devastating fact how few fathers used this parental leave. Just before, the Committee on European Integration had a guest director from the Ministry of Defence and intergenerational solidarity who said that the number of fathers since 1.1.2009 was increased by 250%, which means that it is not currently a fact of 100, 150 fathers at the moment about a thousand 300 use this parental leave. It's still small and we certainly need to stand up for more, but the numbers aren't right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70602	And Mrs. Representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who incorrectly says that the law won't help us get more fathers involved in the use of parental leave. On the contrary, Mrs. Sobol, because this law leaves opportunities for parents and that they freely agree on how to use parental leave. In addition, here is another argument, that actually parental leave is being extended and it will last at least 8 months, 4 months for a mother, 4 months for a father, just as it will repeat once again that it is expected by way of a degree of this law that 10 or 15% will increase the number of fathers in the application of this right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70604	Replications. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70605	Good fellow Sobol you noticed that in this part of mandatory leave for mothers, and only the father's right to go on parental leave is discriminatory. He is in direct contrast with the Family Law, which requires parents and fathers and mothers to care and raise children together from birth. It's their duty. And we here by this law for women are still necessarily moving them away from the world of work, although she can have both mother and other opportunities and it's important to come back before, no, she can't come back. And here we still have one nakarad and old opinion of the majority that you still see and father has the right to worry if he wants to. Don't move your head on me because for a man, so for a parent, it's a father's right, and for a mother's duty. And I'm asking you what right you're making discrimination with? And there is still here, you are calling for European Union directives, there are men in the good part of the European countries who are obliged to go on maternity leave, on parental leave, it doesn't matter what it is called, to be with a child of the earliest age. We see here from most, too aggressively maybe expect it, right... But we have cases today that in a divorce at the earliest age when they have a child in common who has a few days a father is looking for that child, and please a beautiful mother must be on maternity leave, and he is looking for it. [[You don't understand.]] But he doesn't ask him to worry so much but often to wrong his wife because there she dared ask him for a divorce. It's a shame. It's the facts of life, dear gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70606	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70607	My colleagues Antičević-Marinović, you and I are fundamentally in agreement. I also believe that an equal democratic society and fathers and mothers should equally benefit from this parental leave. In the same way. If that's a year then six months, six months father. I was talking about it when we were evening out by the age of retirement, so I said that we didn't remember here in this law that we gradually over the next 20 years increased the days that a man, or father, must be at home with his child. And otherwise, if we don't do it, there will still be defeated statistics, colleagues and colleagues, who write in this law and in that great explanation, which says that in June 2010, out of the total number of all possible uses of various forms of parental benefits, leave, etc., this was used by 71646 people, and of which 1313 men are equal to 1.8%. That's what I'm talking about. Furthermore, it is said in the explanation that the right for an additional 60 days is based on the use of the father's right to parental leave, to be used between 100 and 110 fathers. It says so inside, so I'm just reading what it says, and that part is prominent and especially in the table. But I'm saying, 1.8% of fathers and mid-2009 and mid-2010 use the right to parental leave. That's what the official statistics say. I didn't make them up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70608	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70609	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sobol, I am sorry that in your debate on this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, instead of all the benefits and improvements that this bill means for both family and children, both for mother and father, your debate remained only on the number of fathers who use mandatory leave during the first 180 days, i.e. how many male birth benefits and parental support. But that doesn't surprise me. So, I'm sorry because what you're unhappy about, I'm proud. I am proud of this 100 and 110, respectively, from the data provided by the Ministry or by the promoter by this Croatian Council of Fathers who use mandatory maternity leave, as well as the 1300 total users recorded in June 2010. Because this law makes it possible and it is my wish to tell you that this replica is also a message of these amendments and the addition of the law that eventually this number is likely to increase, certainly not in this expected number of yours, but it will grow from year to year. And in order for this to happen, this law and the Croatian Government, which put the most intelligent policy in the first place, also on page 3 of this material, which shows the increase in the number of children from 2000 to 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70610	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70611	Well, colleague Bilić Vardić, I don't know why you're mad at me and my debate and why you're complaining to me, so I'm twice in my debate, and at the beginning and at the end of the debate, I stressed that I support all the changes and additions to this, I stress everything, forgive me if you didn't listen well then look at the phonogram. But I have the right to take advantage of this debate, in this House I think that I am talking about this problem the most and I will speak, repeat, if it should be like a parrot when it comes to the position of a woman in Croatia and when it comes to the equality of women and men the way I understand it and I think that in that sense I have the right to say it, as you have the right to express your understandings which do not have to be the same as I do. But we in our laws have also clearly written in our national policies such as national gender equality policy, and it is not a population policy above national policy, and we have passed the Law on Gender Equality with over 100 votes and some votes, so unanimously in this House. And when we also see from this aspect a part of this law relating to equal participation in raising children from the earliest age, fathers and mothers in Croatia or mothers are not equal, or if you want different fathers are not equal. So I think then I have the right to try in dialogue, I told Secretary of State Adamic that I would like to, and today in the debate, I said that we should try to see if it is possible in that sense in the future to improve the laws. Since most in this House feel that we should not go in this sense and that we should be happy that 1.8% of our fathers are using this and that next year it will be either 2%. You might be able to settle for that. I personally don't, and I'll always be willing to find a way to get that percentage up much faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70612	Final Review of State Secretary Stjepan Adanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70613	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Here I am very pleased that those discussions that were ahead were very high-quality discussions, that you supported this law, i.e. by amendments to this law. These discussions of yours show that we have made a very good law and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed an extremely high quality law to this House and I thank you for that. Thanks to this law and the national population policy adopted by this government, we have more live births every year and you know that the trend since 2003 when there were the least lively children means 39,000 and something we have now come to 44410 children born in last 2010. It is not good that this discussion is now eventually thrown out on whether fathers use parental leave more or less. I'm absolutely up for them to use it more, so I also have the right to raise children. I would also prefer to be with my children, because in the end I am a parent, a man just like you other men and women. And I think the government procedure goes in that sense because we are and there is Mrs. Anticevic right. We have positively discriminated against men in this sense that in this law we have said if they use a three-month parental leave then this state, this government, this law, this House that will confirm the law, will give them two more months to do so. And we wanted to encourage our men, so all the men of the fathers in the Republic of Croatia to use more of this parental leave. And thanks to God for the last few years, we've had success. We don't have the kind of success we want, but we do. But that's why I'm telling you when we enter the European Union that it will be mandatory then. It may be next year or when we join the European Union. But this information that until the law was passed, we had only 150, 200 fathers in parenting, and now we have over 1,300 speeches, too, so we have a significant shift. I think that in this sense we should view it so positively and that in some ways we will have a greater share of fathers in raising their children. And finally I thank everyone for the positive points in this discussion for this extremely good law. And in the end, I would say we accept all amendments to the Legislative Committee. I said it was two actually. I made a lapus. It's about four amendments. We accepted it today on the Committee on Law and now we also accept it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70614	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70615	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 726. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law. In accordance with Article 169 of the Treaty on the I give the businessman the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on maternity and parental support. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 106 votes, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70616	We move to the next point - Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Macedonia on cooperation in protecting against natural and technical and technological disasters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 722. Proposer of the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative and Internal Policy and National Security. The proposing representative shall remain with his proposal. The committees? Legislative? National security and internal policy? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70617	Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the protection of natural and technical and technological disasters is the result of a common desire to deepen joint cooperation and mutual assistance in disasters. The agreement was signed in Zagreb on 14 October 2010. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Agreement was signed by the Director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, Mr Damir Trut, and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, Director of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue of Macedonia. The main objective of the adoption of this Law is to regulate cooperation and mutual assistance issues in disasters and conditions and forms of cooperation in this area. Among other things, the conditions of cooperation in disaster prevention, co-operation in the areas of mutual notification of threatening disasters, the resulting disasters and their consequences, cooperation in the field of education and training as well as the exchange of scientific and technical information relevant for the protection of disasters are laid down. For all issues of monitoring the implementation of the Agreement, a permanent mixed commission will be established in which each party will have at least three members. The Commission's tasks are to address specific organisational and technical issues, as well as to determine how to maintain links and inform each other. By agreeing with Macedonia and other countries, Croatia is becoming a more active participant in creating a more efficient system of disaster aid and major accidents. In order to deepen cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia, there is the interest of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible to end all the necessary procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement, and thus to create formal legal conditions for the effective implementation of all forms of cooperation provided for in the Agreement, and therefore to propose the adoption of this Act by an urgent procedure. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia to protect against natural and technological disasters.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70618	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70619	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am extremely pleased today to discuss before the Croatian Assembly on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in protecting against natural and technical and technological disasters. This Law, namely the previous Agreement, very well defines this cooperation and in which areas this cooperation will take place. I would point out that this will be on the planning and implementation of measures to protect against floods, earthquakes, fires, environmental pollution, navigation accidents, radiological dangers, and industrial and other natural and technical, technological disasters. Cooperation will be evident in the mutual notification of dangers, occurrences and consequences of natural and technical... technological disasters, mutual assistance in protecting, saving and removing the consequences of natural and technological disasters. [[You don't understand.]] What is more important, cooperation will be evident in the education and training of members of the service, and units for the protection and rescue and other members of rescue teams through information meetings, courses, training, seminars, and other, the organisation and execution of joint exercises for protection and rescue. Cooperation will also be in the exchange of scientific and technical data, as well as other documents essential for protecting against natural and technical and technological disasters, and what I particularly look forward to because this is what we need both for us and for the Republic of Macedonia, and this is cooperation in the development and production of equipment for protection and rescue, because it is actually the new value that both Croatia and God needs for the Republic of Macedonia. If I had any objection to this agreement, I might have objected to Article 2 of the Agreement, but it cannot be changed because the agreement has already been signed, because I believe that the objective of the agreement is not to mutually assist the Contracting Parties, but rather that the aim of this agreement is to regulate the legal rules under which the parties can assist each other, because the aid itself is an indication of the will of one and the other parties in the agreement, so in this case one and the other friendly state. It is hardly possible that the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Macedonia can be compared with any other country, namely, in cooperation with our two republics there are no open issues, and I quote one former Parliament president or president of the Parliament who said that there could be open issues when we are not bordering at all, which means that when it comes to borders, these relations of friendship and cooperation are much easier and much more concrete than it does with direct neighbours. But otherwise joke aside, we have historically good relations with Macedonia, in all segments of social life. I am proud to be able to present this agreement in front of the Croatian Parliament, I am glad to be a rapporteur on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party, and for the fact that in the second term, I am already the leader of the Croatian-Macedonian Friendship Group, so between our parliamentarians and Macedonians, and in our group of friendship there are 35 MPs who, with such feelings, have such feelings for the Republic of Macedonia. And I am also grateful to the present colleagues and colleagues who have allowed us to organise a wonderful reception of our colleagues from the Macedonian Parliament when they visited the Republic of Croatia. What can be said specifically about the law and the agreement can only be praised and it can be said that the agreement, like the law itself, is very clearly written, and how fortunate if the laws of this kind were clearly written in the domestic legislation, if it were precisely all established without doing what we normally do to be too often referred to underlaws, to various regulations, regulations, instructions. So in any case this is a very precise, correct and excellent job done, and the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will be happy to support this bill, and will be in the position of further promotion anyway of good co-operation with the Republic of Macedonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70620	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70621	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the protection of natural and technical and technological disasters, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 722. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the protection of natural and technical and technological disasters. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill is accepted by the majority of 103 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70622	We move to the next point - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the area of the prevention of natural and civilizational disasters and the removal of their consequences, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 723 The debate was conducted by committees of legislation, internal policy and national security. Reports received at the session. The applicant's representative does not wish to further explain the proposal. I'm opening a debate. HNS and HSU representatives' club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70623	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here on behalf of the HNS Club, I will also say that we will accept this bill for the sole reason that the agreement on this cooperation has already been signed in Zagreb on 17 September 2010. Just a few words, which is the basic objective of adopting this law, is to regulate in an appropriate and acceptable way the issues of cooperation and mutual assistance in disasters, the conditions of cooperation in disaster prevention, and other forms of cooperation in this area. Perhaps just a definition of what is considered a natural and civilization disaster means is the situation that has arisen in the territory of one of the parties to the agreement, as a result of a dangerous natural phenomenon or technological disaster, clearly except for war activities, which may have or may result in mass human sacrifice, damage to human health or to the environment, major material losses, and violates the living conditions of people. As with the previous law, we will also point out and say that by adopting such a law we confirm the agreement and we think that we contribute to improving and deepening mutual cooperation. There's another HNS club, the HSU supports the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70624	Thank you. HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70625	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. Today we have before us a proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the areas of the prevention of natural and civilization disasters, and the removal of their consequences with the final proposal of the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament. This agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation is the result of a joint desire to promote and deepen the cooperation and mutual assistance of the two countries, and a desire to strengthen traditional friendly relations between the peoples of the two countries, all in accordance with the Declaration of Friendship Relations and Cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Russian Federation since 18 December '98. A year. The agreement addresses issues of mutual assistance in disasters in the territory of one of the agreed parties, the conditions of cooperation in disaster prevention and cooperation in the areas of mutual information on threatening disasters, disasters created and mutual assistance in the elimination of the consequences of disasters. Cooperation in the field of education and training in the protection of training of experts on an agreed basis in the educational institutions of the two countries, exchange of interns, lecturers, scientists and experts, rescue and provision of assistance, cooperation in the field of demining and exchange of scientific and technical information relevant for the protection of disasters. The main objective of the adoption of this Law on the Verification of the Agreement is to adequately regulate the issues of cooperation and mutual assistance in disasters, the conditions of cooperation in disaster prevention and other forms of cooperation in this area. In the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Russian Federation, this agreement is an element of further improvement and deepening of mutual cooperation, and its enforcement is an important impact on the security of the Republic of Croatia. It is important to point out that the implementation of this law at the request of the provision of additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, but by supporting this law in the Croatian Parliament, we provide a reliable partner and friends and we guarantee greater security. In view of all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the adoption of a proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70626	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70627	We move on to the Final Proposals of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the area of the prevention of natural and civilizational disasters and the removal of their consequences, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 723. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the area of the prevention of natural and civilizational disasters and the removal of their consequences, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 723. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of 104 votes in favour, nothing abstentioned and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70628	We move to the next item - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum between the Council of Ministers of Albania and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on the settlement of the debt of the Republic of Albania on the basis of accounts related to trade between the Republic of Albania and the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, second reading, P.Z. No. 718. The applicant's representative does not wish to explain the proposal. Reporters? No, there are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70629	We move to the Final Proposals of the Law on Confirmation of Memoranda between the Council of Ministers of Albania and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on the settlement of the debt of the Republic of Albania on the basis of accounts related to trade between the Republic of Albania and the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 718 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on this final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 104 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70630	We are going to the next point - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the Law Implementation Centre in South East Europe is an emergency procedure. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget. The applicant's representative does not wish to further explain the proposal. You received the reports at the session. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, which is not available. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Resumption tomorrow at 9:00 in the morning with a debate on the final proposal of the Cooperative Act. ... So let's succeed, given the number of reported, if we could finish up to 12 hours if there was a vote on the remaining points of the agenda and then this session would be concluded afterwards. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Just the Final Proposal of the Cooperative Act. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Tomorrow at 9:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-10-0.u70631	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the Centre for Law Implementation in South East Europe, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 725. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the approval of the Convention of the Centre for Law Implementation in South-Eastern Europe. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 106 votes. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We're continuing this session. And we move on as announced on - Final proposal of the Cooperatives Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 634 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. You received the reports at the sessions. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Ms Tihana Kraljić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
