ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79275	I'm opening a session. It is on the agenda - Proposal for a decision on a spatial plan of the area of special features of the multi-purpose Channel Danube – Sava. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The discussion was also conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Construction and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Nika Sudarevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As mentioned in the introduction, the Government of the Republic of Croatia forwarded on 1 September 2011 a proposal for a decision on a spatial plan for the area of special features of the Multi-purpose Channel Danube – Sava. Namely, I will indeed in short lines chronologically explain the legality of the adoption of this extremely important spatial planning document, after which I will also explain in short lines the pervasive concept of this plan. Namely, as I have said, the adoption of this spatial planning document is defined by strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia, the Spatial Planning Strategy, the Spatial Planning Programme of the Republic of Croatia, and the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. In view of the above, the competent Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction was the holder of this spatial planning document, and the Office for Spatial Planning of the Ministry as well as the Office for Spatial Planning of Sections were the expert designers of this spatial planning document. Its construction lasted just over five years for reasons of the importance of this spatial planning document, as well as the development of the necessary previous professional bases that were a prerequisite for the development of this spatial plan. In short, what I would really say is that all legal acts were carried out in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction and the first public debate was held on 9 May to 11 June 2007. In view of the scope of the procedure, the public debate was organised in two counties, so in Vukovar-Srijem County and Brod-Posavia. What is important to say is that during the 30 days of public debate and public hearings held, we have had observations of 75 as to how competent administrative authorities which, in accordance with specific regulations, are obliged to give their special terms, but equal and all those present at public exhibitions. In view of the complexity of the procedure and of the expert debate that was brought about during these public debates, the competent ministry has assessed fully the analysis of the entire space-plan concept and the implementation of the procedure under the second law, the Environmental Protection Act, and the corresponding regulation, so the process of environmental impact assessment for this extremely important and complex procedure in space. The procedure was also carried out and the ministry decided on 18 February this year to decide on the acceptability of the procedure on the environment, with a number of expert laboratories or measures that condition the way in which the plan is built and managed. I would also like to say that, after the resulting solution, the expert maker has, in addition to installing all the measures from the environmental impact assessment process or the corresponding solution, also valorised and fully developed all the professional bases that were made for the first public debate or for the first proposal of the plan, and also a number of regulations for the fields of nature protection primarily, given the importance of the procedures in ecological terms, have been developed and installed in this plan in order to avoid all possible sensitive interventions in space and in order for space to remain as it is in its basic character characteristics, and also to enable the construction of this extremely important project to be built. Public insight, of course, in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, has been repeated public debate for 15 days... from June to 13 July. And in that public debate, really held again in another county and in three places in the town of Vukovar, the Municipality of Sikirevci, and the city of Vinkovci, we must say that we had only 32 remarks of which 27 were fully accepted, so they were professionally justified, two remarks partly. One is not accepted and only because it did not refer to the procedure which is the subject of the spatial plan, but to the spatial plan of the lower level, and two are given interpretation. I point out this because it shows that this proposal has been significantly improved in terms of all those issues which were the subject of the first public debate. I would also like to show that the Council for Spatial Planning of States held on 29 and 30 June of this year also adopted this proposal, gave its positive opinion and, as such, referred it to the competent ministry which, in accordance with specific regulations and collected the necessary opinions and consent from all relevant ministries, and primarily here I will highlight the Ministry of Culture as well as the Department of Culture Protection, but also the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, and other relevant ministries. That's what's brief in the procedure itself. Since this is an extremely important spatial-planned document, I would only repeat it once more, defined by the strategy and the programme of spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia. The basic function of this spatial plan determines the position, conditions and measures for the construction of the canal, the length of 61.4 km and all accompanying functions that will be in the function of the channel. What I'd say is that its basic function is primarily sailing, and we can't forget also its watering and draining function. As for the very navigational functions of the canal, I would point out that it is fundamentally noteworthy that the integration of the Croatian waterway of Danube, Drava and Sava through state-owned Croatian territory will be achieved in a transport sense and will enable internal transport between Croatian ports. Similarly, the channel project will determine the development strategy of individual Croatian ports, and here I primarily think of Luka Vukovar, which will include the reconstruction of its existing port, as well as the construction of a new port. The implementation of this project should also be evaluated as the first phase of the implementation of mixed transport integration between Podunnova and the Adriatic via Croatia, as well as the successful transport integration of the Mediterranean, Podunnova and Baltica. It also does not need to be pointed out, I believe that you have read enough about the passage of this space-plan document in the media, but I will point out again. Sava's sailing towards Western Europe will cut its waterway by 417km through the Danube-Sava channel. So it's also very important in financial terms. What I would also like to point out is the second significant function of this spatial-planned document, which requires the primary construction of the canal is also a system of irrigation of agricultural land that will contribute greatly to increasing the yield of traditional warfare and changing the structure of plant crops which are attractive to the market, and this is about irrigation 35750 hectares of agricultural areas. And the third, not irrelevant, very important feature of the canal is the draining of the canals, which is very important for an area of 173,000 hectares. Of course, I would particularly like to point out here, and during the public debates, mostly the first ones, it was questionable in terms of part of the forest profession, above all, that the channel would change the level of groundwater in the Spačvanska swimming pool, which was explicitly professionally and scientifically decided, said that there would be no, that any procedure in the area would be managed in a way that would primarily valorise the space, that water levels would be regular monitorins and that there would be no talk of increasing the level of groundwater. And the Spačvan forest for you who are from part of Slavonia is certainly better known than I am, is primarily an economic function because of its constituents, and in the other part it is certainly important and due to the ecological aspect and, of course, it has been very much taken into account. What I would also like to say is that this space-plan document is important not only for these two counties that I have listed and 12 units of local self-government that are within the scope of this channel but indeed for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. And what's also important to say, here I have to say from the space-planner section that all spatial plans, as well as two spatial plans of competent counties, so units of local self-government will need to be consistent with this spatial-planned document. During the process of drawing up this plan, we contacted both the counties and the municipalities and through the development of this plan, since most of them were either designed or completed so that they would not have to immediately start their changes and complements and that the adoption of this spatial plan would not impair the implementation of other parts of the units of local self-government which of course do not act only in the context of this operation but all other procedures defined by all spatial-planned documents. So this is where we cooperated with cities and municipalities and, of course, over the next few years, all these spatial-planned documents will have to be harmonised, but only in the part of the procedure that it is. What's important to say, I believe that a little of you in this space-plan sense know what spatial plans look like, but I believe that you've all seen them and that they're primarily important, all cards are important but primary conditions of space use, or the purpose of space, so I'd just say one functional distinction that's in the space-plan document itself. Therefore, it is the first corridor of a multi-purpose channel that has a basic coverage of the construction of the canals and belonging to the canal. The channel operation zone is also part of the procedure area, but also other infrastructure operations, and I have said primarily in the introduction, it is building both the port and other infrastructure facilities that will be in the function of the canal, but also the complete development of all settlements that are covered. This contact area, and the contact area is of course an area relative to the border covers to the channel procedure area. Here's how much I'd like the introduction, and if there's any questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79277	Thank you. Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Chairman of the Committee of Ms. Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79278	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On the 50th session held on 5 October 2011, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly discussed the proposal for a Decision on the Spatial Plan of Area of Specific Characteristics, the multi-purpose channel of Danube-Sava, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the draft decision in question on the basis of Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the opening explanation of the proposing representatives, she pointed out that the multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel was established by the Strategy and the Spatial Regulation Programme of the Republic of Croatia, and that the spatial plan of the area of specific features of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel determines the position, conditions and measures for the construction of channels and accompanying functions, as well as the terms and conditions of use and space protection. In order to protect the value of space, the plan prescribes a series of measures to protect landscape value, protect nature, protect cultural goods, prevent adverse environmental impacts, protect against natural and other disasters. The presentation of the plan by the coordinators and the development of the plan from the Institute for Spatial Planning of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction is given a detailed overview of the features of the planned multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel. It has been pointed out that the channel route of 61.4 km starts on the Danube in Vukovar, ends at the Sava in Slavonski Šamac and passes through the area of two counties, Vukovar-Srijem and Brod-Posavina and 12 units of local self-government. The position of the canal is conditioned by uniting three basic functions by irrigating about 35,000 hectares of agricultural surfaces, resolving surface drains to about 173,000 hectares and underground drains to about 62000 hectares and canal navigation. The plan provides for the construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel in four phases each of which represents a functional and hydrotechnical unit that can function independently until the upgrade in the next phase. The first phase includes a section from the Sava River to a merger with the Bij River, the second phase of the stock from the Danube and Vukovar to the Bosut River. The third from Vinkovac to the village of Cerna. And the fourth stage, which is in the function of the final arrangement of the Danube waterway – Sava, where the full profile of the canal is performed on the part of the first phase and all other planned buildings in the final frames. Within those phases, the plan provides for the possibility of development in several stages, particularly depending on the development of the area and the planned use. The canal plans to build five ports and ports, and 23 road and walking bridges. Under the international contract, the channel will be built as a waterway for the fifth B-class. In the debate followed by board members, they supported the adoption of this plan as a document providing space-plan preconditions for the implementation of the strategic project of the multi-purpose channel Danube – Sava and development in the area of this part of Croatia. The members of the board positively assessed the possibility of phase channel realization, of which each stage represents a functional and hydrotechnical unit that can function on its own, especially for reasons of the need for procedures in a time and financial sense. The Committee considers the participation of all relevant entities as well as respect for the spatial plans of counties and spatial plans of urban and municipal arrangements in the development of the plan and its flexibility towards their future desired spatial development. As regards the planned purpose of the channel, it is considered that its construction is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia due to irrigation of agricultural land, disposal for the purpose of preventing potential floods and in the function of future airworthiness, both from the aspect of freight transport and passenger transport. Furthermore, the discussion on the Committee highlights the importance of an environmental impact assessment of the Danube-Sava channel, which results in clearly defined environmental protection measures and an environmental monitoring programme for each of the planned channels. And as Mrs. Niki Sudarevic's representative said, three public hearings were held. One public debate for a normal plan. After that, after the correction of the second public hearing. But there was also a public debate on environmental impact studies. And after the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament on the spatial plan of the area of special features of the multi-purpose channel Danube – Sava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79279	Thank you. Committee on Development and Reconstruction, Chairman of the Committee of Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79280	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 52nd session held on 5 October 2011 discussed the proposal for a decision on a spatial plan for the area of special features of the multi-purpose channel Danube – Sava, which was delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government by a decision of 1 September 2011. The Committee discussed that proposal in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. In the opening statement of the proposal, the Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Construction pointed out that it was a large investment project worth almost 950m euros, covering 2 counties and 12 units of local self-government. The plan is to build five ports and ports, and twenty-three road and walking bridges. The channel combines three of the most important functions – sailing, irrigation and draining, and the traffic connection of the three most important Croatian rivers Dunav, Sava and Drava with the possibility of performing the increasingly popular river cruise tourism. The construction of the canal creates a connection with road and rail infrastructure, and Croatia is positioned as a Danube and Adriatic state. The channel becomes part of the complex transport corridor Podunavlje – Jadran, i.e. combined river-rail connections and enables better integration with Central Europe. An environmental impact assessment has been carried out and a solution has been adopted whereby the intended procedure is acceptable for the environment, with the application of the laws prescribed and the relevant solution to the established environmental protection measures and the implementation of the environmental monitoring programme. The importance of adopting this spatial plan is highlighted in terms of strengthening the economy and forming a business zone in the area of channels with expectations that investors will recognise the benefits of cheaper transport. A representative of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy stressed the importance of channels from the perspective of water and forest management, which took place during the two public debates held in April and May 2007 and in June 2011 was the most remarks. During the second public hearing, the comments and proposals were submitted by a total of 32 entities, almost 27 of which were accepted. It has been pointed out that the Council of Spatial Arrangements of the Republic of Croatia has assessed that the plan respects the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, specific regulations and objectives, and that it is in line with the strategy and programme of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia. In a positive assessment, he proposed to be referred to the adoption procedure and his professional recommendations were made by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. The debate supports the adoption of a spatial plan because it combines the construction of a water canal and the water canals for irrigation and disposal, which highlights further processing of small water during the dry summer period. The question of the influence of the canals on the lowland forests in the Spačva swimming pool is asked – Bosut, which stands out as a natural wealth of European and global importance, the more they depend on the hydrogeological circumstances in the rivers and their dynamic water regime, especially because the waist has a shared opinion. A representative of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy provided information on which a study was made on the basis of a ten-year monitoring in the area of a spa pool related to the growth of wood mass at the request of the Croatian Forests. The debate also expressed the concern of a member of the Committee, without prejudice to the importance and benefits of this project, that there will be no repeat cases from Baranja where all the wells were dried up after the melioration, which was removed by giving a professional response to a member of the Committee of Scientific and Professional Institutions. In particular, the debate highlights the importance of this project in the section relating to irrigation, as it will further enlarge the agriculture of Slavonia as well as the role the channel will play in the rescue of floods with which Croatia has been fighting for many years. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly a decision on a spatial plan for the area of special features of the multi-purpose channel Danube – Sava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79281	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community Mr Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79282	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. From the first half of the 18th century, more specifically according to the preserved writings of 1737 until our time, the topic is how to connect the Danube and Sava with the channel. Since then, 14 different channel variants have been proposed to date, based on the technical requirements of the times in which they were created. The main reasons why the channel has not been realised so far are economic opportunities and various interests in the country and the environment. After the independence of the Republic of Croatia, the issue of the construction of the Danube-Sava channel was updated, and the project was included as a strategic facility in the development programmes of the Transport Infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia. Accordingly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at a session held on 19 March 1991 on preparations for the construction of the Danube-Sava channel. The Government's decision set out tasks to prepare the construction of channels, the basis for their implementation and the holders of individual tasks. Technical documentation was based on this decision, which developed technical solutions to the future system of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. From the first ideas of the navigation canals, it comes today to the multi-purpose role of the Danube-Sava channel. This project has great importance for the entire Republic of Croatia, especially for our eastern Slavonia, and our two counties of Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijemska, which will restore their deserved role as Croatia's cereals. The Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel has four main functions, which are drain water, small water processing, sailing and irrigation. When we talk about the disposal of multi-purpose canals, we can arrange surface drains at 173,000 hectares, and ensure the conditions for building underground drains to 62,000 hectares of agricultural surfaces, eliminate flood damage, and regulate the water regime of the spa pool according to forest vegetation needs. The construction of a multi-purpose channel meets the technical conditions for the processing of small water on parts of the waterbeds, Bosut, Spačva and Vuka, training them for irrigation, and also manages the water regime of the spa pool according to forest vegetation needs. The construction of a multi-purpose channel will allow for the reduction of navigation from Sava towards Western Europe by 417 kilometers, and towards Eastern Europe by 85 kilometers, and the integration of the Croatian network of the Sava-Dunav-Drava inland waterways, and the achievement of the 560km long transport corridor Podunavlje-Adriatic, in the form of a combined river-rail connection of 61.4km of the Danube-Sava canal, 340km of the regulated Sava River, and 160km of the Rijeka-Zagreb railway line. The entire channel route will allow intensive irrigation of about 33,000 hectares of agricultural land and will allow for an increase in the volume of agricultural production from 20 to 50%. The possibility of irrigation is the most important positive impact of the Danube-Sava channel on soil and agro eco systems in that observed area, since the canal will have a certain amount of water for that purpose. This will allow along with traditional warfare cultures to grow more vegetable cultures, flowers, transplants and fruit materials, cultural plants, ornaments in open and closed spaces, plastics, greenhouses and... growing, as this production can become very lucrative and attractive for young people who could find reliable sources of income there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By changing the structure of agricultural production so far after ensuring the conditions for irrigation... the damage caused by drought, increased yields of extensive traditional cultures, allow for the introduction of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the culture of vegetables, fruits, seed crops that can bear the costs of investing in irrigation systems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The channel itself is 61.4 kilometers long and its construction is projected in four stages. Construction of a 15km channel along the planned route from the Sava River to the Biđ waterway, construction of approximately 25km of canals with a full profile of the trough, to ensure the conditions for airworthiness from Vukovar to Vinkovac, the third phase of the length of the waterway 22km of the full profile of the trough from Vinkovac to the settlement Cerna, and the fourth final establishment of the waterway from Danube to Sava. As the first phase of construction of a multi-purpose channel includes the construction of a channel about 15km long, which is reduced depth, its construction overlaps in nature with the BJ Bosut field waterway, whose construction has already begun. Project documentation has been developed so far, where the location permit and the principle building permit for this entire channel share have been issued and land purchase has been completed, and construction permits for the construction of 5 of the project envisioned 6 shares of the Melioracian canal. This year, construction of the first section of the waterway melioracian canal in the length of about 6km was completed, and contracts were concluded to continue the construction of the second, third, fourth and fifth sections, a total length of about 14.7km, as well as for reconstruction of the Konjsko channel, and other preparatory works. This phase of the project is covered by the catalog of investment projects of interest to the Republic of Croatia in the public sector according to which it should be realised by the end of 2015. The construction of the canal will ensure irrigation of about 4 thousand hectares of agricultural areas in the area of Bijd Bosutsko polje, i.e. Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijem County, as well as regulation of the water regime of surface and underground waters in the Spačva forest complex, and for this project in 2011, planned investments amounting to around 56 million kuna, given that the entire Croatian profession of hydrotechnicians, builders, agronomists think that the realization of this project actually began to realize the 100-year dream of building a multi-purpose channel and that of course this project should no longer stop or stop. This spatial plan of the area of special features of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel is actually a preliminary issue so that this important project could be built for the entire Republic of Croatia. How the execution of the canals, as I have previously exhibited, will be carried out phase and phase, and at each stage the space intended for the construction of the canals and the accompanying elements will be edited in such a way as to enable the function of the channel in accordance with this spatial plan. Therefore, in front of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, we support the decision on a spatial plan for the area of special features of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79283	Thank you. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing a proposal for a decision taken by the Croatian Parliament, which concerns the adoption of a spatial plan for the area of special features of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. The plan itself has passed the public debate process and the procedure of the repeated public debate, and we at the HNS-HSU club think that only the adoption of this spatial plan of the area of special features of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel is not disputed if they are indeed and indeed give answers primarily to the profession, the answer to the questions raised by the professional public and if the construction of this channel, if one economic study, a study with relevant data, a study that defines the inability of this entire project, which certainly exists in some segments and is certainly present. However, given the overall position of our economy and the total moment and position of the state budget and all other elements, the question is whether this project is feasible and what is the reality of its construction at all. So this is one thing we're discussing today, and the other is the question that remains definitely open, to which we have no answers, which is the reality of building this facility. It is already mentioned how long this channel is, which is happening in the shortening, how much it reduces sailing towards Central Europe, towards the Black Sea. Normally, this possibility and position of irrigation of 35 thousand 750 hectares is particularly important, as we are at the beginning of the irrigation of the surface at this point, as in many other segments of countries that have organized irrigation in their space, cca 10 thousand hectares. Thus, it is not worth mentioning at all and every story on the subject and every step on the subject when we talk about irrigation is extremely useful and extremely good quality. The only problem with this project is the lack of money. For the start of the construction of this project there is no kuna in the state budget or this year, it is not scheduled for next year. Therefore, it is very clear and loud that what we are discussing today is a matter of spatial-planned documentation, and the construction of this project itself when it will be, when we will see it. And in any case, in this context and in the context of the debate on this point, we at the HNS-HSU Club again point out that at the end of the mandate that this project is announced as a possible project, at the end of the Sanader-Kosor mandate as well as many other projects, which are realistically at the level of the letter of intent, that this is a project that has been spoken of since 1737, that this project that was taken out of the drawer and at the end of Sanader's government in 2007, is a project that is once again being removed from the drawer and from the oil and at the end of this second term and certainly and almost certainly from that project in terms of implementation should be responsible and be realistic, for a long time, nothing will happen. Why do I say that? First of all, there's no swear to start construction in the budget. Secondly, the project itself, the project weighs around a billion euros, 950 million euros. And on the condition that this project goes and that its construction starts, and provided that the construction of this project does not raise prices as it has happened with highways over the past 8 years, and I hope that such infrastructure projects will ultimately be no longer the key to the construction of the projects being held by the State's Attorney's Office and the USOKK, but the profession is questionable for these billions of euros. The project will run for European money. All right, in this regard, the fact that Europe is introducing a practice of revitalisation of river flows is not quite ready to build a channel. But even if she's ready, do we have 20% of our participation secured, 25%? We don't. Furthermore, the question is whether and when this billion kuna will be made through navigation, how much will it take to invest in this project? Do we have answers to questions on how to earn money for both this facility and the waterway? The argument will affect the business zones that investors will be coming to. Excellent argument and certainly logical and necessary, but the fact is that INO investments from 2009 to 2011, means at a time when the government is run by Mrs. Kosor, it fell from 2 billion euros to 200 million euros. The fact is that our external debt has increased from 40 billion euros to 47, the fact is that our liquidity has increased since 2009-2011 from 20 billion to 40 billion. The fact is that 145 thousand jobs have been lost. Therefore, in these relations of argument, it should be realistic and aware of the moment and of its added value over the past period. Furthermore, the fact is that the profession was very clearly determined according to this project. We at the HNS-HSU club have almost no reason not to believe the argument we heard from the proposing representative, but at the same time, the fact that actions have been brought to the Administrative Court against the environmental protection ministry's decision on the accepted study on the environment of the facility. That's a fact, that's obvious. Yes, the expert public is asking a whole series of fully justified questions on which we still do not have very clear and concrete answers to what impact this project will have on nature and the economy, and it is certainly irresponsible, no matter how irresponsible a project at some point seems to be, it is quite irresponsible to initiate and lead this project if it threatens other sectors. I accept the argument when we talk about... the forest which is a national treasure, I accept the argument that the Ministry of Regional Development has supported this project, however, the fact that the profession itself, I am talking first of all about people associated with forest associations, still have a reserve according to this project. Is that where the consent was reached? I trust the expert public of forestry professions far more than the administrator or someone from the Ministry of Regional Development, far more, and I don't think we have a clear and clear answer. The question of drinking water arises as a problem in this area, whether this problem is solved and a whole series of things that the profession has asked very clearly, we have heard from the proposer's representative that they are to give answers to the questions of the profession, however, what is key to this project: Channel Danube-Sava is a project that requires an extremely large responsibility, a project that needs to be economically soundly founded, and a third very important thing, a project that needs partners, without partners, we can't really implement this project without partners. At this moment, the Government of Sanader Kosor has nothing of it, has no solid economic analysis, if there is any I would very much like to hear from the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People, and the rest of you and representatives of the position and opposition would very much like to hear that information. And what's key, this government doesn't have a partner to build this facility. Therefore, this project is a letter of intent, a pre-election story that could look good, but realistically from it almost certainly and should be told to the citizens, because it is absolutely certain that citizens from Brod-Posavina, Vukovar-Srijem community of extremely county, are extremely interested in such an object, but it should be realistically said that there are a whole series of elements that are necessary and necessary and that this project could be launched. Therefore, this spatial planning documentation, what we are discussing today is definitely something that is necessary throughout this process and there is no reason why if the professions are respected, if the legal provisions are respected, if the strategies are respected if, there is no reason why we do not accept this proposal in the HNSU Club, there is no reason, but what is important to say clearly and loudly that there are a whole series of open questions and there is nothing from this project except the stated intention and desire would be good. The fact that we return to the Pelješki bridge, the amount of Pelješki bridge for construction is now in pre-election time, below 5% of the total investment, of the funds that Croatian roads receive for compensation, is that the answer? Is that responsible? One again in a series of pre-election promises, pre-election flossules and public deception. I don't think it's correct, first of all, to the citizens of Brod-Posavia and the Srijem County to give one false hope, by accepting this document that I repeat to me at the HNSU Club, we have no reason not to support it, but we need to make it clear and loud that no conditions have been made for the construction of this project, and that such a project could go into realisation that it is necessary and necessary, but at the time when all conditions are created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79285	A few corrections. First Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79286	I thank Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague, Korajevic, who said that the project is being removed from the drawer in pre-election time without anything happening in the meantime. You should listen carefully to the Ministry's representative, who said that for five years it has been working on spatial planning documentation to deal with ownership relations, and I believe that you know that this is even a prerequisite to start designing, to start with consumers, to start looking for partners who will participate in the financing of this project. You mentioned the word " fact" several times. Well, the fact is, from this exhibit of yours, that you do not support this project and that when you come to power, this project and the Peljek Bridge will be stopped as well as many other projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79287	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79288	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, Korajevic, who is in a series of inaccuracies, let's say we don't have an investor. What we are adopting today is the basis for further work, and on the basis of this plan, documentation will be drawn up with which investors will be sought. Next, you tell your colleague that nothing was done, it's not true because you haven't studied the material. You spoke politically, not professionally. If you'd read the material, you'd have seen that the first stage of the channel started, but I won't be answering you right now, but stay here and I'll tell you that in my debate. And another thing, don't deceive the citizens of Brod-Posavina County here, he said it was a false hope for the citizens of the Brod-Posavina Vukovar-Srijem County. Cola Koračević is not true, farmers in my area are welcoming this by war building the first stage and intending to change the cultures that are in the lower part of Croatia's eastern glow so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79289	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79290	Thank you very much. Article 209 both colleagues and colleagues obviously did not want to hear the attitude of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People to support the adoption of this Decision but we do not support giving false hopes to citizens that the project will come real for this there is no position. Making this decision and spatial planning documentation we support, building an object we support but do not support public deception that it will start with the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79291	It's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's controversy with allegations. Madam representative, Đurjica Sumrak, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'm correcting a series of incorrect allegations, one of which is that the waist didn't give a positive opinion on this. So like this, colleague Koračević, the profession gave a positive opinion. If you were a little more interested then you would know that the Faculty of Agriculture and the Faculty of Forests is respected professors and Mustapic and Petosic have done just one study of meliorisation that is already being conducted. Ask the population what that means to them. It's the same for your information, but don't deceive the public, for 10 years you've been testing the ground level of water. What does that mean and how useful it is? Of course, and as far as the facts are concerned, it's one fact that your party president is in bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79293	Okay. Thank you very much. Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, next amendment. Okay. Thank you very much. Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79295	Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Koračević said this project is being removed from the drawer. I think he's cheating on the public, because these are the very days that giant cruisers have arrived on that channel, bringing in numerous tourists to watch the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79296	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Thank you very much. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79297	Yes, it is. A colleague says he's pulling the project out of the drawer, but the giant cruises are on their way. The giant cruisers are now anchored on the lake... near Djakov and watching workers in barbed wire.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79298	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, an esteemed colleague amongst the incorrect said that this was actually about a letter of intent or a desire to achieve a particular project. That's an incorrect quote, because this is a very important decision. It is a decision to make spatial planning documentation. And you know very well that without the spatial planning documentation that must be defined strictly in accordance with the regulations, there is no serious project and that this decision is the basis for accessing and realising this very valuable investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79300	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79301	Thank you very much. Well, I have to appeal to Article 209 again because my colleague is correcting something I didn't say. I repeat, we support making this decision with spatial planning documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79302	It is not true, colleague Koračević, that it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You said repeatedly that it was a letter of intent. And counterpart Tomljanovic says it's not about the letter of intent, it's about something else. And then you can't paralyze and thus claim that it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure when he corrects yours obviously in his opinion a claim that isn't correct. Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79303	Well, here's a colleague, Koračević, who said that this project has nothing and that no funds have been provided to achieve this project. So I'm going to remind him that actually this beginning of the construction of the canal has already begun by building this melioracian channel that overlaps with the channel path. Finally, as of 2010, only the pilot of the irrigation project totalled €199,71 million of State budget funds financed by the production of project documentation, the resolution of property-legal relations, the preparation of works, research, archaeological works, etc. In 2011 Investments amounting to about 56 million kuna are planned. This fellow Koračević is nothing, these are assumptions that the construction of the canal can go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79304	SDP representative's club, Mrs. Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79305	Thank you, Vice President. At the beginning of the debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the Spatial Plan of the area of specific features of the multi-purpose Channel Danube-Sava on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia a question. Why did you refer this document to the parliamentary procedure for the final session of the Parliament in this session? Why are we discussing in this extremely important document less than two months before the parliamentary elections in which this set will not win election success? What's this about anyway? One of the many pre-election tricks of the ruling party manifestion is the improbable political responsibility of wanting to benefit by making such decisions to worthy clients of the ruling elite, land speculators who are called investors or developers in the ruling circles. In the SDP club, we conclude it's a combination of everything previously said. It is definitely a pre-election trick aimed at convincing the public that this government is working and has the power to realize valid infrastructure projects such as this other symbolic Peljega Bridge, a project that could almost be realized by the number of excavations so-called. First shovels for pre-election purposes. However, the ruling party underestimates citizens and citizens of Croatia who no longer fall for such transparent tricks, and this is most visible from the fact that this project, which in one part is extremely controversial in terms of environmental protection, no longer even causes a nervous movement by NGOs and activists and environmental activists who are not excited because they know that the realization of this project will be nothing. This is about a manifestation of precisely incredible political irresponsibility, as no responsible government, which has been in power for eight years, has made these decisions at the last session of Parliament. Because Kanal Dunav-Sava is an extremely invasive project in both economic and spatial and environmental and social terms and as such requires a completely different political treatment from this. In other words, it's a project to start, not end of term. Because of the above, it cannot and does not conclude that this proposal is just another possible corruption trick of the ruling, a trick-or-treating fear that their days in power have been numbered, so this is literally the last moment for land speculators who have already witnessed clients of the ruling elite to take money or to flee. For what? In view of the fact that this decision is taken after the spatial plan of the area of special features of the multi-purpose Danube-Sava Canal has been significantly increased overnight by the value of the land covered by the plan. Unfortunately, this is a scenario that we have seen many times in the direction of this government, a plan that does not rest on the desire for a project to be truly realized, but that artificially inflates the value of the terrain without any state protection mechanism to prevent abuse. Why does Croatia not have such a protective mechanism in the area of spatial planning, forgive me, spatial manipulation, the question is worth millions and millions and even billions of not kuna but euros, a question this ruling set never answered. I expect a reasonable and understandable answer from the government, which is why this decision has now been created in the parliamentary procedure, and why is this important project, if they ever really thought to implement it, has not been launched before 8, 6, 4 and even 2 years ago, already now? I believe that this answer will be extremely interesting not only so-called. the interested or professional public is already a large majority of Croatian citizens and citizens. I have already mentioned that this project is invasive in both economic and spatial and social terms and that as such requires a completely different political treatment than that offered to us by the ruling. In fact, it is indisputable that this project in the section concerning the construction of the waterway, i.e. the sewering and concreteisation of riverbeds, is extremely controversial in terms of environmental protection, more specifically the protection of valuable forests and forest habitats in the area of Spačva and in terms of water balance disturbance. I would remind you that the idea of realising this project is extremely old, more specifically dating back to the period of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. In the past 100 years, however, in science, especially in hydrology and ecology, or sciences on the interdependence of living organisms and their habitats, many of the changes that appear to be the government of Prime Minister Kosor have not yet been accepted because they still live in the past, which is the most visible and from its recent pre-election performances. In fact, if there is a sewerage of the Danube and Sava riverbeds for the purpose of construction of the waterway, they will be threatened, and perhaps completely destroyed, extremely valuable specimens of the oak tree that grows in the Pachvan forest, which are necessary for them to be partially flooded twice a year. I would like to remind the ruling majority of this occasion that several years ago, the director of the State Institute for Nature Protection in a national daily paper on the realization of this project, I quote: "A more concrete example of the Sava-Dunav channel which, in the context of the Austro-Hungarian region at the end of the 19th century, had its function, connected Central Europe, Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland and Germany over the Black Sea with the area of Eastern Europe and Asia, i.e. connecting Central and Western Europe with the Adriatic Sea, which is very interesting in transport. At the end of the line, Austria built the port of Metkovic, and in the former Yugoslavia, the channel had its justification. On the Bosnian coast of Sava, there was a large port that brought prosperity. There was a load coming through the canal at Vukovar to the Danube and it has open directions to Western Europe and east to the Black Sea. Bosnia and Herzegovina was less developed than Croatia and Slovenia. To further develop BiH, Yugoslavia has made the port of Ploče. It is now the current 5c corridor connecting the Adriatic via the port of Ploca right through BiH and going to the waterway rivers, so on the Sava. As Yugoslavia falls apart, things change. Croatia and BiH are becoming separate countries, and this raises the question of whether a channel that will inevitably encourage the development of a port in another country is at all useful to Croatia, except that the Vukovar port then becomes unnecessary. And from the point of view of nature protection, the most valuable specimens of the oak tree in Europe, some of which are found in the Spačvan forest in the world. The oak pot is an extremely valuable export product for Croatia. The reconstruction of the channel, Academyman Slavko Matic warned, would call into question the survival of a oak shell because it must be partially flooded twice a year to develop. It is therefore necessary to take a good look at whether it is wise to question the existence of such natural resource because of a transport connection which would most likely have no positive effects for Croatia at all, but for the neighbouring country. The second option is to make a waterway practically to Zagreb, but the Sava should take extremely large procedures that would endanger the Lonjsko polje. Nature park Lonjsko polje is a swampy habitat, protected at the world level by the Ramsar list, therefore these are globally inadmissible procedures that could destroy the area. These are the very things that regulate the European Union's directives. In the event of any interventions that may affect nature should be consulted with the profession." I stress and repeat, this is not stated by some environmental activist or environmental activist or political opponent from the SDP. These are the words of your party colleague, director of the State Nature Protection Institute, who recently reaffirmed his mandate at the post. This project, in part of the sewerling of riverbeds for the needs of the waterway, has been extremely critically stated by many experts and experts of various professions and forests, and biologists and environmentalists and geologists, hydrologists, spatial planners, not to mention. And... This project is written as, quotes: "a utopian plan that swallows funds and landscapes in Croatia and warns that among other things this project lacks cost analysis of cost-effectiveness." Since 1991, since Croatia decided to prepare construction, the project has already swallowed the cost of planning and project, which is millions. [[You don't understand.]] And this Lončar warns of damages from the realization of this project on the forest cover in the Spačva area, quote: Water is a oak shell dominant economic factor. It's a very sensitive kind of tree relative to water, and it bothers him too much as it does too little water. Spačvanske forest eco-systems will be influenced in the future by two procedures covered by the Space Plan of the Republic of Croatia, the Danube-Sava channel and the Zagreb-Belgrade highway. The canal was designed on a move from Vukovar to Shamac in the length of 61.4 km in the direction of the northeast-Southwest, and would cut deep into the field and cut off the streams of groundwater flowing in parallel with Sava from west to east and supplying spazvanian forests with water. Since it is virtually impossible to determine the streams of groundwater and the real impact of the fall, as well as the rises in groundwater levels, it is not safe to predict the state of water in the habitats of the Spanish forests after the construction of the canals. Such a water-tech procedure is undesirable because it poses a threat to the lowland forests that are in the area of its unfavourable influence and have a significantly greater value than itself. The result of any similar procedure in this area was the drying of forest trees and, above all, the oak of the loins as the most economically important species that does not tolerate coloring or water shortages in the habitat. All previously quoted is that channelling rivers for the needs of the waterway would put Croatia's natural wealth extremely at risk because of the economic questionable project. In other words, this project could be summed up briefly and... They killed a cow to bake a steak. [[You don't understand.]] The SDP club also warns that the countries of the European Union, which are so often a role model for all and all things, in the last 10 years have shown an extremely high skepticism in the practice of channelling rivers and are deeply regretted that the implementation of such projects in their countries has irrevocably degraded space, disrupted water balance, threatened biodiversity and increased risks and damages from floods rather than controlling them, preventing and reducing them. The fact is that recent scientific research has shown that the flood story is not exactly black and white because seasonal floods do not cause damage to nature but participate in a normal natural cycle by enriching the soil with fertile floods from the river. As a result, today the European Union is moving from the Strategy for regulation and sewerling of rivers to an integrated management strategy for flood valleys and is encouraging the return to the original state of its destroyed, regulated rivers. In fact, it has been scientifically proven that regulation of rivers turns rivers into narrow canals with low water capacity. River streams are being accelerated by the cutting of means, which is why they are turning into streams at every increased level of water. By channeling the rivers, natural flood areas, such as sparse plains and Lonjsko fields, are destroyed, or natural flood defenses. Because of this, regulation and channelling of rivers is justified only in settlements and industry because it protects the lives and assets of people, but it is absolutely unwarranted to regulate and channel rivers in uninhabited natural areas. Because of everything previously said in the SDP club, we support this project in the part concerning the construction of a meliorative network, i.e. a system of irrigation and disposal, which makes agriculture in eastern Croatia no longer dependent on rain, but we doubt the benefits that the Danube-Sava waterway realization would benefit from. From the information available so far, this segment of the project could result in significantly greater damage but also environmental benefits, as well as the economy of Croatia. And because of all of this, it is very unserious to make such an important decision five seconds before the end of this government's term and convenes the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79306	Thank you. Corrections. The first is Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79307	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed colleague said, I think a few times incorrectly, of course, that this is about a pre-election trick and another corruption trick. That's absolutely incorrect. I will repeat once again that this is about the decision to make space-plan documentation as the first prerequisite for continuing the realization of this valuable investment. And then how can you at the end of the exposure I realized you're part of it and you support the decision itself. How can you if that's essentially what you think it is. How can you support this? So obviously you're also contradictory in your presentation, and what you've said is notorious untrue. I repeat, it is a decision, a decision, a definition of spatial-planned documentation as a basic prerequisite for the realization of this investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79308	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79309	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect allegations also repeatedly in the debate of my colleague Holly being a pre-election trick and that this is unserious. My colleague Holly did not do it at all, and that is not a pre-election trick and that the Croatian Government headed by Mrs. Jadranka Kosor thinks I will give you a serious argument. First of all, do not refer to 1737 or Austria. First of all, the multi-purpose channel Danube – Sava was established by the strategy and program of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in '97. 1999, respectively. Secondly, in 1997, the Republic of Croatia signed a European Treaty on the main internal waterways of international importance. It went into effect in '99. the year, and inside it is contained and envisioned a multi-purpose channel of Dunav – Sava. And the third, making, that is, jobs in the design of this spatial plan began in 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79310	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79311	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. ... This is not the pre-election trick of fellow Holly, this is a programme of the Croatian Democratic Community and coalition partners that has been in realisation for five years. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] We've heard how much funds have been spent over the past year, we've heard how much funds will be spent this year, and here's a little glimpse of the actual outline of your pre-election program. They say briefly: stop the Danube channel – Sava, stop the Pelješki bridge, and we will probably hear some more picnics from the SDP programme and the "Kurika" coalition these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79312	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79313	My colleagues, Holly, although I agree most of the time with your exposure, but you said something that made me want to pick up this plate of correction incorrectly. You said it was impossible to claim a stream of groundwater. And then how can you determine that the Spachvan forest will dry when the canal is dug, if no one can determine the flow of groundwater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79314	Mr. Representative Boro Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to answer to my colleague Holly primarily as a member of the board. My colleague Holly should know that when she speaks, I will correct her incorrect allegations, that she is related to the plan, to the institutions, to the environment, to the meliorative channel, etc. Because it's a few things she mentioned that don't match the facts, the truth. It is true that the plan has been made for a long time and that all institutions have participated in its work, and this speaks sufficiently of the seriousness and character of this plan. Oh, all those subjects clearly gave everyone on their side what they were supposed to do. An environmental impact study has also been carried out. Therefore, it covered everything. It's also clear to fellow Holly that both of us, that the channel will not be easily completed. But that's why there's a plan to work in stages. It's stage work, and the greatest positiveness of all of this is actually completing and supplementing what has already been proposed from the '97 strategy, '98. A year. Because there's practically only one-third of the melioracian channel left, because two-thirds of the melioracian channel is done. That would be my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79316	House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79317	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs. Last week on information shows, we had the opportunity to hear the information that the last rain in Slavonia and Baranja fell more than three months ago, that the crop of corn was only 70% of the average year. The climate change impact projections on this area speak of a further negative trend, i.e. a decrease in the amount of rainfall in that area. As a result of such conditions, the hardness of agricultural land also increases fuel consumption if the country's processing of existing agricultural technology is even possible. That's the state of things today. But in what way does this condition change in the future? It's a question that today's generation must begin to solve. Unfortunately, because of the scarce financial possibilities, we do not see the possibility of a more recent implementation of a project to build a multi-purpose channel of Dunav – Sava in the whole that just described the situation could change. What we can do today to speed up the implementation of this project is to bring the appropriate space-plan bases that are the basis for other steps that will one day certainly follow. The phase of construction as envisaged will allow for a gradual solution to the problem of irrigating the area. The speed of implementation of the entire project will depend on the possibility of financing its construction, final viability and sustainability of the entire project during its use. It is, as we know, a major investment project worth 950m euros, which includes two counties and 12 units of local self-government, and plans to build 5 ports and ports, as well as 23 road and pedestrian bridges. Support for finding ways and opportunities to finance this project is seen in the recently adopted Danube strategy which supports the projects of reviving the trade in goods and making greater use of the Danube River as a waterway. Together with this strategy, it supports the resuscitation of social and economic activities in the area covered by the Danube Strategy, which are both counties with channels and passages. However, in order to run for a co-financing project from European funds, it is necessary to carry out all the necessary preparations, and one of these preparations is the adoption of this spatial plan. The financing of this project should not ignore the possibility of private investment gatherings such as the possible contribution of landowners, which will be irrigated by the realisation of this project, it is large regional strong enterprises with which the forms of joint investment in this project would have to be discussed, with the aim of common benefit, because the increased yield of agricultural areas owned by them would directly ensure greater income in the future. The following way of providing funds is seen in the careful use of mineral wealth, which will be created through the construction of the canal. Regardless of the amount of gravel it was concerned, this gravel must not become a construction waste, it must become a raw material to be used for the construction of transport corridors in the Republic of Croatia and the total benefit of it must be dug up by the Republic of Croatia. Channel Danube-Sava from the aspect of environmental protection and nature protection carries its risks. The Ministry of Culture gave consent and opinions and proposed protection and monitoring measures. In the process conducted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, and following the public debates, the intended operation of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel was assessed as acceptable to the environment, with the application of established environmental protection measures and the implementation of the environmental monitoring programme. Of the total number of objections 27 was accepted, two were partially accepted, one was not accepted, and two were interpreted as being processed in the report with a re-public hearing. Part of the issues considered potentially risky by the professional public are related to the impact of the implementation of this project on both the Danube and Sava rivers. The grip that changes the flow or introduces changes to its profile at the mouth-cancering sites is almost unpredictable. The stream changes itself over time, even faster than we realize. Good modeling of the effects of feathers on the river flow and well predicting the effects of erotic processes on the opposite bank of the river is extremely difficult. Another problem is the flow of the Sava River, which will be accelerated due to the swelling of the part of the water through this channel. This can further worsen the adverse effects on the environment and the economy, that is, agriculture at a time of drought, as we are witnessing these days, when Sava's depth at Lonjsko polje is only about 50 centimeters today. A good regulation of such a channel's impact on the rapid flow of water is necessary, especially in extreme weather conditions. This also raises the problem of the wateriness of the Sava River under such conditions, and of course the viability of the entire project if the possibility of transporting the goods to Sava remains 3 months a year. More important issues related to the protection of nature are dealt with in Article 126, and Article 9 requires evaluation procedures on the ecological network for each stage of the implementation of this project. There are no answers from the available material about the problems of the impact of the potential fall of groundwater levels on the centuries-old oaks. We believe that this problem has been addressed in the environmental impact assessment process and that the expert commission has provided for the necessary protection measures. Taking into account all the positive and negative aspects of the project, it is necessary to reconsider national priorities. If agriculture and food production are a national priority, this channel is a solution for part of the problem of irrigation of Croatian cereals. If economic and transport recovery is also a priority, this project could also be an answer to that question. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will also support the bill for all of these good reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79318	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79319	Comrade Greek, you said that this year's drought reduced the yield of corn by 30%. How do you explain that when your minister from your government who you support and have ministers, says or says the damage from the drought is too high? I don't know who's too high in there. Furthermore, I'm correcting you, it's no harm in drying corn. Secondly, you were talking about exploiting construction gravel from the river. So how will the construction gravel be exploited, sir, when it's impossible. You know that the law prohibits the exploitation of gravel from our Croatian side, where there are numerous protests and people who want to do something for themselves, and this would also be used by the Sava River, above all, I think, and also on Drava, it would be far cleaner and deeper, unfortunately inspections catch small people, but exploitors on the other side of the border regularly use our Croatian gravel from the Sava River, Drava, and also Danube.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79320	Comrade Grubisic, thank you very much. It's not a correction, it's a single-thesis polemic again. Now it's your turn, on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go. Comrade Grubisic, you are next on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79321	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry, I got into a great place with this party upstairs of yours, so I didn't hear you call me in. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the choice, and here's the channel at our place in Slavonia. So it was 2007, so here it is in 2011, who knows how much longer it will be, and the Danube-Sava channel itself and the idea of digging up the Danube-Sava Canal or vice versa Sava-Dunav because the above sea level of the Sava River is higher than the Danube, so the direction of the water flow will be in reverse, so from Sava towards the Danube, the Danube would go in alphabetical order first, but here I must note that most of the time, the time period of the year leads backwards, so from Sava to the Danube. In 1893 in Vinkovci was held almost I would say similar debate, 120 years ago, 19 years ago, on which the municipalities, which were to pass the Danube-Sava channel, which were forced by the Hungarians because of their needs for the export of cereals and cereals from the Pannonian valley, towards the Mediterranean and to the river, to the Adriatic coast. It was their interest at the time which also coincided somewhat with the interests of Slavonian peasants and citizens of Slavonia, but then in 1893 there was no agreement on the construction of the canal. It was later created by 1st. World War I, etc. They say the idea of digging up the canal was from before, so 250, 300 years ago. And above all, because the Sava ships couldn't sail to Belgrade and then to the Danube because Turkey ruled Serbia until 1815, 1830. Furthermore, in recent Croatian history, we know that Mr. Jure Radic was the head of the Danube-Sava channel construction headquarters in 1997 or 1999. Is that so, gentlemen of the HDZ, you know who was the head of the Dunav-Sawa channel. And here in 2011, after the election or appointment of the Chief of Staff from 13 years ago, we now have a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a spatial plan of the area of special features of the multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel. About a month ago, the Prime Minister also visited Slavonia. She went to lay the cornerstone for the opening of that tail corridor VC, so from Osijek to Svilaj-Medredans is 3.5 km long plus a bridge on the Sava River with that there is no road on the Bosnian side where the bridge broke out. That value of investment is about 400 million kuna. I was in Svilaj yesterday, I saw no badgers, no machine. I've passed from Svilai to the village of Bitty and Garcino there is for school, it's seen inside, it's also by our state's means, but there's no roof at school. Look at the wonders of the work. The school hasn't been covered by most votes in a year. The contractor is the company of the president of the HDZ County Organisation, but there is no roof. For a year now, children have been going to school so they don't get wet in Garcino. And there's a cornerstone laid there. And so the stone foundation to the stone foundation, trains from Zagreb, from Brod to Zagreb or Vinkovci cool in the road because they are overheating, and new trains have been bought, new trains have been bought. That's how he invests in Slavonia. And here, there will be so many cornerstones that I can tell you in that old one, and I'm as old as Vice President of Parliament, my friend Jaco, just write, we'll work in Slavonia and in the rain. We won't be able to do anything. 30 government projects, government economic recovery projects under economic recovery measures, have announced 30 projects worth 105 billion kuna or around 13.5 billion euros. Of these, among them, the only Slavonian project was the Danube-Sava channel, which according to some estimates as well as Zagreb Airport was the first 230 million and then said 320 million. I guess they switched numbers, I don't know 230 or 320 as if that's just the way they pour themselves. So the Danube-Sava channel, according to some estimates, is worth its 950m euros, at some 700m euros, etc. Where is the calculation of so-called "Benefit Cost"? So it costs 700 million euros or 5 billion or 6 billion or 7 billion, and when will the money that's invested be recovered? Is there a calculation of that? Any studies on that? There isn't. And one more thing to say, that channel is the multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel he's so-called. 5b category of waterway or how to say water class. He's not the same water class as the Danube River or Sava. What's that gonna mean? Are we going to load Danube ships, large ships, into small ships that will then take the Danube-Sava channel? Is this the aim of the Vukovar port which will btw or as they say by the way there towards Brshadin somewhere and towards the Marines. Furthermore, will ships passing from the Danube to the Sava go out in Sikirevci and Jarugam, not just in Slavonski Šamac itself, dock at the port of Šamac, Slavonski Šamac If they drive goods for the Republic of BiH, Montenegro, etc., that is to say? Well, he won't, he'll agree to take over at the port of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Šamac and at the port of Brcko who have railways through Bosnia and Herzegovina's valleys, the railways towards the territory of the Republic of BiH. The goods will not be overloaded in Slavonski Šamac, but the port in Bosnia and Herzegovina will earn money from the business of that channel. We're talking 35,000 acres of irrigation. The channel itself takes up an area of 12 thousand hectares, a channel itself and its surroundings that I do not now speak professional terms, but a channel of 12 thousand hectares is its surface, and within 61 km and 400 meters of which in Vukovar-Srijem 50 km, and in Brod-Posavina County 10 km or 10.5 km from being, here you do not catch me by word. Now, irrigation. How much is it and do you know how much is watering the surface in percent in the Republic of Croatia? How much is the watery surface? I know that the mayor of the former ship-to-work he knows that he was mayor, but it's 1.5%. 1.5% are now irrigated, agricultural surfaces. With this add-on of 35,000 hectares, this percentage of irrigated areas will increase to 3% of the total agricultural area in the Republic of Croatia. Did we get a massive percentage or could we irrigate more? Just as it was already said about the meliorating channels needed. Look at the canal, I won't look over the neighbor's board what they say about us in Slavonia in the neighboring yard, but look at the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel he serves and how he serves. I say I don't want to look over the Danube, but I've known it before. It is said that the current rivers, which are in some ways and are not rivers, will partially enter the channel. It is specific in Slavonia, in our valley part of Slavonia and Srijema, therefore, Vidj is above all such, has such characteristics, Bosut, Berava, Vuka, Spačva, Studva, there is a stream there, there are rivers and rivers that work together with the forest wealth of Spačva, but not only Spačva but also Nerolin, as it is said between Gudinac and Babina beam there on the border of two counties, the forest then in the forest of Šiškovac, there are forests which will also come into a difficult predictable situation. It's hard to predict, it's hard to find underground water flows where they're going and if they're going to get there. I wish that the studies that are provided with this project were guaranteed to do so, because we all know that when we said several of us in the debate that half a metre water level is important to the forest of the shell oak which, unfortunately, is so exploited that it is ruthlessly exploited, yet Spač's wood industry went into bankruptcy and I am not clear as a result of so many cuttings because this cut like bullets was exploited during these 8, 10 years by the Slavonic oak and imported it into Italy, boasted about exporting and the total mass exported from about 2 million cubic metres is 90% in the log, so we can meet our trucks full of loaded oak oak on Slavonian roads and Slavonic A3 car road. And now it compares the highway to Dubrovnik, Split, Pločam, thank God it is nice to drive on the south highway, with the significance of the Danube-Sava channel, so for the south of Croatia road and for Slavonia the Danube-Sava channel in the phase construction. It is said here in the corrections of incorrect allegations that it has already been invested in the channel 256 million kuna. It is known that in Croatian waters, it should not be too much to get into matter, it says in the paper about the many affairs that are burdened with Croatian water. Here, in Babi's beam, people were, they sold state agricultural land to which the channel route was to go, people bought 12 kunas, pardons, hectare for 12,000 kunas, and then sold to the state or Croatian waters for 180 thousand kunas, the damage that occurred in this country is more than 4 million kunas, that is, what a malversion, already in the beginning. So when there's tunnel painting, coastal repairs, weed cutting canals will again be all Croats only want one thing, they want to paint tunnels or cut grass around the canals or repairs on the embankments, etc. That's what's going to happen, you did show up in that road construction, then how do you believe that? The HDSB is for the construction of the Danube-Sava channel, but without jeopardizing these ecological norms written about by the Croatian Forest Society, written by experts and the HDSSB would also be willing to know if money would be monitored, as on many other projects are being laundered, whether to come here to bury a few pluggers, and when the elections are past then nowhere like the Sibinj entrepreneurship zone when the minister came there were three bogeys and two trucks, and now the ambrosia of capital is growing, there is no bigger in holding, and people are in prison for crime. They're projects for Slavonia. They're projects for Slavonia. The citizens of Slavonia will know that this came at the time of the election, and could have been before, so they will know and appreciate the way to say the legislative procedure in connection with the spatial plan, the areas, the special features, the multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79322	Thank you. 10.54 The time has expired to report a debate of 10 minutes correction of the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79323	An esteemed colleague said in his presentation that I want to correct, he said among other things, "Jaco, just write, we will work in the rain," and it should be precisely paraphrased by that famous communist saying, "Brother Jaco, just write, we will work in the rain." If we're not wiped out of the Employment Service or if our company hasn't gone bankrupt, we're in barbed wire.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79324	Thank you very much. Very charming. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. You can't take any time off. Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we are discussing major projects, which should stimulate certain investments and bring economic benefits, I would say development and in some way help people who are engaged in either agriculture or transport, transporting goods, etc., it is good to be consistent. It is not good that such things are always announced in front of the elections themselves, because it is simply lost to conviction. What it means is that today's adoption of this plan, if the great probability of the people who listen to us here today don't believe those who suggested that they really mean it and implement it. I will remind you that the session of Parliament on January 2nd, 2008 when the HDZ government of Ivo Sanader received support in this House with 82 votes in favour and 62 votes against, to p. 29 And it was written on the construction of the canal of Sava-Dunav, and on which it was written that many of the port's capacities would be built on Savi and Danube. Here are 4 years after most ministers, 90% of the ministers of the same government, nothing has been done, and now in the photo finish of this mandate, a spatial plan is proposed which should provide information and convince people that something really is going to be done there. No matter what I would say, I would also say the inconceivables about this plan that my colleagues used to say in the debates about both cost-effectiveness and conductivity and whether it is imagined as it should be, if they would accept that it would be done, whether this government guarantees it and whether this policy truly guarantees it when they have done nothing here in four years. This is what I'd say one of the series of pre-election promises, someone said it lays a cornerstone without any reason exclusively for pre-election purposes. If we want to help people, we need to work and we don't need to promise. And unfortunately, that's where you've been, gentlemen, in the last four years, very, very bad. What is another information that concerns us over the past 6 years since the adoption of the National Watering Plan, because we are gentlemen at the start of the world list on irrigation and on the damage we experience in agriculture and Croatian citizens and Croatia unfortunately have to behave quite often as Indians for over 300, 400 years. We look into the sky and we want rain. Give us the rain because it only guarantees that we won't have any damage. This government has been the last since the adoption of this plan in six years when we realized that we only have 1% of the surfaces irrigated by the total of those being processed, only 1%, did nothing. I want to tell you, for six years it's been enough to raise that by 10, 15%, but unfortunately at this point we don't have a single percentage of watered surfaces more than in 2005. When we compete with countries in the environment dealing with the same agriculture, here I'll tell you one Greece that is now in trouble has 80% surfaces watered, Italy 50%, Portugal 59%, Spain 72. So absolutely one of the projects of the new government that will arrive after 4.12 is the irrigation of Croatia. Because we are aware that every year when the drought loses more than 3.4 billion kuna directly from the damage done by that drought. And then it's clear that it's not small and it's easy to pay for big investments that are measured in billions of kunas if you avoid damages of $3.4 billion each year. But Croatia doesn't do that. We, i.e. this government that has been at the head of Croatia for the last 8 years, have been doing it, has persistently promised and has not done anything in particular. And who knows how many billion kunas of damage we could have avoided investing in that area. And then I say Mr. Grubisic wouldn't ask questions, if it was worth 5 billion, so normally it would be worth it if you had damage a billion a year less than he would have if there was such irrigation, and now it's gone. And of course, I absolutely advocate that one of the main investment amounts in the next period of the government's next term will be irrigation Croatia and helping all of our citizens who live on agriculture, who in this way will optimise production, which will protect them from harm and who will not, as I said during the HDZ government, look into the sky and pray for God to rain. Here's what HDZ gave our farmers, wait for the rain, call rain, that's one thing that can help you. We can't help you because we just promised, and we didn't do anything. I'll say one more thing now. This isn't symptomatic just about irrigation. I must say that we have one situation embarrassing in Croatia that a state-owned company has not paid people their wages in the last three months, after being completely devastated and killed in the fire at the beginning of the year. It's the Whitelight Olympic Center. The state owns it, she took the insurance money from the company, nothing was done. 150 people in Ogulin are waiting for what happens tomorrow, whether they'll end up all in the stock market. And it's also this government that deserves it. And imagine the paradox, in the plan and programme of the HDZ for a new mandate, says investments in tourism in Beolasica, and 150 people do not know now whether they will be busy tomorrow and whether their salaries will be paid. I'd say white hair is a synonym for HDZ rule. The big promises since 2003, the fourth, fifth commissions that were to be made by the facility until the fire that devastated the entire company, destroyed Bjellolasica, we can also withdraw analogy to the Croatian economy that was destroyed. And now here's the new mandate where HDZ offers a rebirth and a desire to help these people. So who's going to believe you gentlemen? The same thing is in all segments, I said one example of Bjellolasica, 3 months property of the state, Mayor of Karlovac, chairman of the Supervisory Board, people don't get paid. And there's no telling if it's going to work tomorrow at all, and 15 million kunas were taken from the insurance and nothing was done, I'd say at the center's revitalization. This is the way you manage this country and that must change after 4.12. Irrigation, Belarusian, Croatian economy, public finances, everything, unfortunately, is in such a poor state that we will need a lot of effort and knowledge to change these things. I apologize, I've taken some intense vice president and some examples that are not related to Kanal Dunav-Sava, but you'll understand because these are very important things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79326	I'll understand what's going on, there's one topic that's being discussed, and then it's going to be the tenth. Corrections to incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79327	Thank you very much, Vice President. The MP said that Bjelalasica is a synonym for HDZ rule. As far as I know, the government is working to solve the problem of Beolasica, but the SDP's singers have stolen in the City of Zagreb billions of kunas from the citizens of the City of Zagreb from various company malversions where SDP's singers lead the holding. So please, it is a synonym exactly how the SDP rules not only Zagreb, there is also Rijeka, there would be some more cities to be counted etc. Let's deal with your people where you rob citizens, where you've managed to be in power in some way, that's where you've completely robbed the citizens. You took billions of kunas to the City of Zagreb, which is the synonym of the SDP, the Holding singers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79328	And now Mr. Maras has had a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so he'd be polymizing with...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79329	I wouldn't be plimizing, I'd only be warning you of one fact, if I hadn't mentioned the City of Zagreb and Holding, but the Whitelight...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79330	It's Polish again, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79331	And you should have taken away Mr. Kunst's word according to Articles 209 and 210.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79332	I should have taken your word because you went off topic, I should have warned you...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79333	You should have warned him, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79334	Thank you very much. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79335	Please. Please. You should have warned him that in Zagreb everyone was getting paid...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79336	I shouldn't have. I'll decide when to warn someone or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79337	And that the last three months, no worker has been paid. That's what you should have warned him.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79338	I'm not going to warn him because you were talking about the white woman. I have freely allowed you to talk about something beyond the subject and when Mr. Kunst referred to it, then you disagree. ... Why don't you mention Holding, why don't you mention Holding? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's see, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79339	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament were made to be held by representatives, but to God and to him who chaires the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79340	What is the look at the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79341	Article 209 has been injured by you, Article 209. The representative who raised her, I don't know if you see well, but I've raised this one five, six times, to a representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President gives his word as soon as he asks. You have mistaken my Rules of Procedure in Article 223, or 223a. I repeat that on behalf of the HDSSB Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes since we have new information on the Danube-Sava channel, and I also have complete information on a dramatic situation with Đakovština workers who strike today surrounded by barbed wire. So I'm asking you to give this Rules of Procedure a 10-minute break from the HDSSB Club. And stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79342	Like this, Mr. Winkovic. First, in correcting the incorrect allegation, you stated, correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr Bora Grubisic's presentation, instead of correcting the incorrect allegations, you extended a harsh defamatory insult to the head of the government. An extremely offensive, extremely unworthy insult. After that, you raised your hand and then you raised a plate to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Now you're looking for a break, and I don't approve of that break because it doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. You're looking for a break for something that doesn't comply with the Rules of Procedure. I won't explain it any further, but I don't approve of a break. Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic, please. ... No more injury to the injury, it's usurpation and it's... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No more. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No more. ... Here you go, Mr. Filipovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79343	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79344	I'm looking for a breach of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79345	Peace, I didn't approve your word, there's no pause, I didn't approve the word, please be calm. ... Go on, Mr. Filipovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79346	The discussions mention the fact that the idea of building the Danube-Sava channel is nothing new, so something that appeared 20 or 30 years ago. Namely, the first idea of building a channel was written back in the first half of the 18th century, and then different ideas were reduced, and projects and studies for these solutions were done in accordance with the technical solutions according to the times in which they were created. So, from those first ideas of building a channel as an object intended for airworthiness itself that has been running through many years, we are finally coming to the realization of the idea of a newer time, i.e. the multi-purpose role of the Danube-Sava channel, whose construction will mainly take place in the area of Vukovar-Srijem and Brod-Posavina County, we are looking forward to with impatience in view of the transport, economic and investment importance that Eastern Slavonia will receive from the beginning of the construction of the canal, especially in the time after the completion and the function of the entire project. I think it is very important to say here, given that a lot of the discussions in the previous debates have been highlighted as to the pre-election project, that the citizens of Vukovar-Srijem and Brod-Posavina County, but I think most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not care whether it is a pre-election project or not, but I personally argue that this is not the case, I will say something in my further presentation. The important thing is to get this project started as soon as possible. In this context, it should be mentioned that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in line with the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia, made a decision 20 years ago on preparations for the construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. Since then, to this day, systematically and continuously, except for a short period of time, it has worked on various studies and projects necessary for the realization of this extremely demanding and important project for the Republic of Croatia. It is thanks to the dedicated work of the past years in which different expert teams participated today that we have before us a proposal for a decision on the adoption of a spatial plan of the area of special features of the multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel, which we are obliged to adopt on the basis of point 6.25 of the Spatial Arrangement Programme of the Republic of Croatia, which states that this channel is an integral part of the programme of spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 69. The law on spatial planning and construction. Here we need to stress that by adopting the proposed decision we will finally round formal-legal assumptions for the start of the implementation of the Danube-Sava project. It is also important to mention that the spatial plan in question, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, passed the public debate procedure and the procedure of the repeated public debate during which different objections, opinions and proposals were submitted, many of which were accepted and contained in the proposed plan, and that the same was positively assessed by the Council of the Spatial Order of the State which also proposed that this plan be addressed in the adoption procedure. Of course, it should also be said that the spatial plan of the area of special features of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel consists of three books containing the text and graphic part of the plan, noting that only the provisions for implementation of the plan will be published in the National paper because of the scope of the documentation, while the other text and graphic parts will be kept in the Croatian Parliament, the competent ministry, the spatial planning offices of Vukovar-Srijemska and Brod-Posavina County, and the Waterway Agency. Just a few more sentences about the characteristics and economic significance of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. Namely, the Danube channel – Sava as part of the seventh Danube corridor enables the internal integration of Croatian waterways as well as the link between the Trans-European waterway Rajna – Main – Danube from the sea, i.e. with the Croatian sea ports of Rijeka and Ploca. The canal is therefore part of the combined river railway corridor Podunavlje – the Adriatic deep 570 km, which extends between the Danube and Sava, i.e. Vukovar and Slavonski Šamac in length of 61.4 km. It is also important to mention here that the construction of the Sava canal towards Western Europe will be reduced by 417 km and towards Eastern Europe by 85 km, thus making a significant contribution to the development of domestic waterway traffic in the Republic of Croatia. In view of the attractiveness that this transport corridor will certainly achieve by building the Danube-Sava channel because of its integration of Central Europe and the Adriatic, and the fact that this attractiveness contributes further to the acceptability of transport costs to internal waterways in the future is expected to make significant transport of cargo on the Danube-Sava channel about 7 million tonnes per year. Previous expectations should have a positive impact on the level of transport of the port of Rijeka as well as on the ports of Ploče, but certainly all other planned similar facilities along the Danube-Sava channel. Teacherly, it is necessary to stress that five ports and ports are planned on the Danube-Sava channel. Therefore, the upgrade and modernisation of the existing port of Vukovar, the construction of a new port of Vukovar, on which the facilities of the port are planned and the facilities in the function of the other production-service economy. Then the construction of a port for the needs of the Port Authority, the border police and customs, the port of the Tributes and the port of Cerna. The construction of the canal will also bring about changes in the water regime in the surrounding area compared to the existing situation. Namely, the channel will connect the water streams of Bosut and Vuku, and form a unique artificial stream of canals connected to the Danube and Sava with a number of hydrotechnical structures that will create the conditions for full control of its water regime. This specifically means that the future system will be able to manage what is invaluable for the agriculture of that area, since the function of the canal will be focused on irrigation, improvement of sewage and the ecological needs of small waters. Thus, the supply of the necessary quantities of water to the multi-purpose canal system from Sava and Danube will create conditions for intensive irrigation, as 35000 ha of agricultural land has already been mentioned on several occasions today, which will contribute to increasing the yield of traditional cultures. But what is very important to me will certainly contribute to a change in the structure of the crop and in favour of the market for attractive cultures. But there will also be conditions for extensive irrigation of 36,000 ha forest land. I would look back here at the part where before, my predecessor Mr. Maras said that so far, in terms of the irrigation project in the Republic of Croatia, practically, which was part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, nothing was done. But he forgot, of course, to say that they are superficial, which is a possibility of irrigation superficial today twice as large as they were five years ago. So they increased by 9,000 ha to today 19 and a half thousand hectares. But it is also forgotten to say that the construction of additional irrigation systems is still 42000 ha in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, Virovitica-Podravska County and Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Furthermore, it is also necessary to say how assumptions will be created for further editing of surface drains at 173,000 ha of agricultural land, and to ensure conditions for the upgrade of groundwater disposal to 62000 ha of agricultural areas. The conditions for the elimination of occasional long-term floods will also be ensured.... The pool, and the regulation of the water regime in it according to the requirements of forest vegetation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this fact also denies certain colleagues who have spoken in the direction that this channel will adversely affect the forests in that space. Therefore, it can be concluded, in all respects of the previous words, that the construction of the canal has an extremely significant importance both in terms of transport and its water functions and in terms of the economic prosperity of Eastern Slavonia which, I think we can also agree on a well lag behind the averages of the Republic of Croatia, but also in terms of water management, i.e. the water economy. So in the end, there is nothing left for me but to say that I will support the adoption of the decision on the spatial plan of the special features of the multi-purpose channel Dunav – Sava, and to express hope that soon and as soon as possible, it will begin with the basic realization of this project. I am convinced that only then East Slavonia and my Vukovar-Srijem County expect a rebirth in every respect. And once again, I really want to point out that it doesn't matter to the citizens of that area whether it's a pre-election project or not. I again argue that this is not a pre-election project, because I have presented a series of facts that say that this project has started to be discussed since the creation of independence and independence of the Republic of Croatia. So since 1990 or '91. A year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79347	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79348	The honourable representative, Your Honor, has not sinned in the Rules of Procedure, but you have. I call on article 209 which says that you must give the session, i.e. the break of the club of representatives, and I call on article 223 and b and seek a break on behalf of the HDSSB Club for 350 families, for 350 employees of the company in the bankruptcy "Djakovština" who are dangerous with barbed wire. If that's not enough reason. And I ask this Parliament and representatives of both HDZ and SDP, which has three, four, to also support this request from our club to come out here and explain to the Croatian public what is going on in the heart of Slavonia, in a city whose honorary citizen you are. That I ask of you in the name of it. And as for the slanderous statement, I think no one should be ashamed of their past. If someone was a friend or a friend, then it was him, not me. I wasn't a member of the party except for the '90s SDP. Well, if it was you, so now it's hard for you to admit it's another thing. [[Intruder Shakespeare: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79349	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79350	So I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79351	I hear, I understand you yes, and you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79352	And according to the Rules of Procedure, you must give it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79353	Yeah, yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79354	And I apologize if I offended my friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79355	Okay, yeah, yeah. So you're repeating whether or not it is. You know, there's this one story where someone sends someone somewhere and then they say I apologize for sending you there, so I apologize for calling you a team and that name. It's a famous style that belongs to a special kind of speech. You claimed that I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm just giving you an explanation that I didn't hurt him, and if you're unhappy, you can ask the Constitutional Committee, the Rules of Procedure, and the political system that's going to bring a word about it within 24 hours. So you're not satisfied, are you asking the Constitutional Committee to make such a decision? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79356	Article 209, I would, uh... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79357	So you're not happy with my explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79358	I refer to Article 209. I believe you wrote it along with.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79359	You're satisfied with the explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79360	Col. Arlovic, who says: "A representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the president gives his word... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79361	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79362	By Article 220, which you also violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79363	I'm shortening your word. ... I'll give it to the Constitution Committee. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Thank you very much. We've got to move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79364	You want to go to the election there, what you're going to tell them, that you didn't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79365	We have a further correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79366	Discuss in Parliament... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79367	Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, correction of the incorrect allegations. Peace, calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79368	I'm calm, you calm down. I'm not nervous, I'm not a fool. I'm asking you as chairman to allow the discussion under article 223.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79369	It wasn't me, nor am I determining you... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79370	Of 350 people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79371	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79372	They're in barbed wire.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79373	There's no pause, you understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79374	The only thing missing is that barbed wire that says arbeit machts frei.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79375	Yeah, yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79376	Well, then we'd probably be happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79377	Yes, yes, thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Dinko Buric, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79378	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who pointed out that this is not just another pre-election trick and that it is the continued efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do something about Slavonia and Baranja. I must remind you, this claim is incorrect for the next reason, because I will remind those 30 projects that include this Danube-Sava project, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted on September 23rd if I am not mistaken in 2010, in those 30 projects of interest for the Republic of Croatia totaling 13.8 billion kuna. Only this project is foreseen for Slavonia and Baranja, and even if it was realised as I doubt it is worth 950m euros. 950m euros compared to 13 billion and 800m euros is only 6.88%. Therefore, it is incorrect that you have said and it is incorrect that the Government, however, shows even the opposite of what the government of the Republic of Croatia has to do with projects in Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79379	And Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Filipovic says that the channel will enable and shorten the waterway, and then mentions the sailing of Sava towards the west, and I must ask Mr Filipovic may be in Županja and the waterway of Sava, where Mr Filipovic is from. However, if he is aware of how far the Sava water river is, can it reach Sisak, and the waterway is the cheapest, is it so, Mr Filipović, then the railway goes afterwards, let alone the once anticipated port in Rugvica, so at Zagreb where the rail traffic has actually been cut short and then it becomes costless and much cheaper. Furthermore, you said, you also mentioned the port of Ploče, but the port of Ploče, so if we go through the Danube-Sava, the Danube-Sava channel for railways that go through Bosnia and Herzegovina's transport, I stress again, as I said in my presentation, do in Slavonski Šamac, because there is a Šamac-Sarajev railway, or in Brcko, Brčko-Tuzla, there is also a railway. Therefore, this is a great cost-effectiveness for, therefore, the same correction of the incorrect assumption that such great enormous benefits for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79381	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79382	You still are, just more.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79383	It's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79384	I have one more piece of information.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79385	Too much time, too much time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79386	35 thousand acres of land.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79387	We have a replica. Comrade Grubisic, so please, don't, see that time is running out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79388	90,000 hectares are still mined in Slavonia, Mr Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79389	Time's running out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79390	Here's nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79391	Yes, and we have a replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, a replica of the gentleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79392	You see, dear colleague Filipović, I do not know if you know that the company Stone is the foundation of the company d.o.o. and this company whose majority owner is the Government of the Republic of Croatia or in this case HDZ is visiting Croatia, and then extracts stone foundations. You want the canal, here's the canal. You want a hospital, here's a hospital. You want school, here's your school. You want a national bachelor, here's your national bachelor. You want a maternity home, here's your maternity home, and only there do women have to sign to bear on their own responsibility. You want a church, here's a church, etcetera, etcetera. You want bankruptcy, here's your bankruptcy. You want a barbed wire, here's a barbed wire. But if you want to talk to this government, then there's no talking about it. Or it takes from the first request a year, so it's... Croatian Governments, this is the social sensitivity of the government, this House, Vice-President of the Council for Destiny 350 people, who neither blame nor duty sleep at night under the open sky, whose families do not have bread, do not have milk, and children cannot be sent to school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all for the reason that this company Stone foundation d.o.o. She had a 30% stake in the company Đakovština, and now a real mutant, the minister is gone, there is no Prime Minister, there is no one, and the Vice President of the Parliament doesn't want that problem to be discussed here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79393	Thank you very much. Not that I don't want to talk, but you can't talk off topic. This is an abuse of replicas, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79394	This is the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79395	Mr Filipovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79396	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79397	Peace, you have no more words.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79398	... passing through this channel. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79399	You have no more words.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79400	They're coming to see the workers in... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79401	Of course, Mr. Vinkovic didn't replicate me and my presentation about the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel at all, but I would rather say that Mr. Vinkovic was talking, I don't know what you were talking about, I wasn't talking about these things, I wasn't talking about projects at all. The second thing, apparently to some in the Republic of Croatia, bothers that certain projects are now in pre-election time. So, as a person or citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I am pleased that any infrastructure, economic or any other kind of project is being opened, regardless of whether the pre-election campaign has started or is following parliamentary elections. It's really irrelevant for citizens, it's important that projects open up. And I think we all need to be happy and happy together if we open up economic, infrastructure projects or objects of some sort of social purpose. Well, I'd only take a chance here to tell Mr. Grubisic more that I didn't tell the wrong information. So the projections show that the construction of the Danube-Sava can irrigate 35,000 hectares. These are certain projections. So I didn't say anything incorrect. As far as Sava's airworthiness is concerned, this plan also provides for Sava's airworthiness to be reached by Sisak. This means that Sava's fleet is still missing from Sisak. And once again, I want to say that I don't know what Mr. Vinkovic is and why he's replicated to me because he didn't even look back at the exposure that I had to do with this topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79402	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79403	I have to go by article 209 of the Rules of Procedure because Mr Filipovic when he mentioned me in his, in his, which is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79404	So is this the violation of the Rules of Procedure because he mentioned you?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79405	No, no, it's what he said about what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79406	He replicated Agent Vinkovic. So what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79407	Who did you replicate to in the first place? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79408	Well, you should know who he's replicating, if you'd listened, you wouldn't be hurting the Rules of Procedure right now. Thank you very much, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79409	Just a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79410	He can't take a second. This is really abuse of the Rules of Procedure, the most difficult abuse. And to you, Mr. Zorana Vinkovic, for the frequent violations of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Ms. Advocacy
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79411	You can take notice, sir, but you have to give your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79412	Peace. I won't let you make a circus out of the Parliament here. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić, please. ... Peace, I didn't give you my word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You don't have a word. ... You have no right to speak. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You don't, yes, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79413	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. In my debate, I will do one upgrade to what my colleague Filipovic said. So he said there was talk in this country about the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. A fellow Filipovic in this country
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79414	For the sake of the incursion, I give you a warning by taking away your words. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79415	In this country, preparations for the construction of the long planned Dunav-Sava project began to be seriously worked. And that's how it is, here's the argument. So we will repeat that the multi-purpose channel Dunav-Sava was established by the strategy and the Programme of Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 1997 and 1999, respectively. And I will use this place in the debate to answer those who accuse us of being a pre-election trick and to do it before the election. Those who accuse us of this had the opportunity in 2000 to respect the documents brought by this House of Commons and to work on them. They seem to mind that the Croatian government that came to power behind their rule continued seriously and resolutely in the construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel concerning the territory of Eastern Croatia, my Slavonia, because I am a representative of 5. Election units. And now to return and immediately to say that I will clearly support the proposal for a Decision on the adoption of the Spatial Plan of the area of specific features of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel because the adoption of this decision means that a comprehensive and long-term work has been done on its design in 2006 and that quality preparation has been done to start the realisation of a large strategic and investment project worth 950m euros, which I congratulate the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the competent Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, as well as all co-workers on drawing up the plan. This is more because the government, so I will repeat what we have heard today, reached a conclusion at the meeting of 23 September 2010 which accepted the catalog of investment projects of interest to the Republic of Croatia in the public sector in which it was incorporated and built from the water economy of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. As a representative from 5. Election units and I come from the Brod-Posavina County with the Vukovar-Srijem County of one of the counties whose area passes the route of the future Danube-Sava channel I will agree, repeat and highlight what all of those whose well-being of Slavonia and Croatia is on the heart, which is that the construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel for the development of Slavonia and Eastern Croatia is as significant as the construction of the highway was for southern Croatia. As I have already listed the channel passes by Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijem County and 12 units of local self-government. As MPs from 5. Election units I think it is okay to mention 2 towns of Vukovar and Vinkovre and 10 municipalities of which 7 are in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County. These are Bogdanovci, Nuštar, Trpinja, Privlaka, Andrijašeci, Cerna and Babina Greda and 3 in the area of the Brod-Posavina County of Gundinci, Velika Kopanica and Sikirevci. The start of the 61.4 km long channel route was planned on the Danube in Vukovar, and the end of the Sava in Slavonski Šamac was mostly followed by the waters of Vuka, Bosuta, Bija and Konjski. Most valuable, what I want to point out is that the multi-purpose channel Dunav-Sava, as the name itself says, has more functions, specifically three – irrigation, draining and sailing. As far as I'm concerned, it can go in reverse order equally significant. Namely, in the year in which we were hit by a large drought, the resulting farmers look forward to the fact that the entire channel route will allow intensive irrigation to about 35 thousand 750 hectares of agricultural land, which will allow for an increase in the volume of agricultural production by 20 to 50%. And not only that, I personally look forward to the announcements of local farmers, which will enable this feature of the canal to change the cultivation of cultures in Slavonia. So, along with standard olive grains, irrigation will also benefit from the cultivation of slightly unfairly neglected vegetable production in Slavonia. The second no less significant feature of the canal is disposal. So let's just remember, colleagues and colleagues, last year heavy rain and floods, large floods that hit all the areas of Croatia, the entire area of Croatia. From the far east, across the central part, from Croatia to the far south and which have caused significant material damage to the population, the economy, and especially the agricultural sector, and should not point out how evil this is in agricultural Slavonia. The construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose canal has enabled the construction of surface drains at 173,000 hectares and ensures the construction of underground drains to 62 thousand hectares of agricultural land. The damage to the floods, the draining of large waters in both directions towards the Sava and the Danube and regulates the water regime of the Spacvan swimming pool according to the needs of forest vegetation. Excuse the forest vegetation. At the same time, the construction of the canals meets the technical conditions for the processing of small water from safe and Danube water on parts of the troughs of existing water streams Bosut, Spačva and Vuka, training them for irrigation. The third feature of the canal and could also be the first reduction in navigation and Sava towards Western Europe by 417 kilometers and towards the east of Europe for 85 kilometers, as well as the integration of Croatia's Sava-Dunav-Dear internal waterway network and the achievement of the 560km long water corridor Podunavlje Jadran in the form of a coordinated river rail link, 61.4km of the Danube-Sava canal, 340km of the regulated Sava River and 160km of the railway line Rijeka Zagreb. The construction of the canal places Croatia as the Danube State and the Adriatic State. I will not mention in this place that the channel is set in category 5B and I will not say that Croatia signed a European contract in 97, which also provided for the multi-purpose Danube-Sava channel. What I particularly want to praise and what is not sufficiently taken into account here today in the debates is a channel building plan, which is due to the complexity of procedures in financial, technical, and economic respect foreseen in 4 phases, each of which is a functional and hydrotechnical unit that can function independently until the upgrade in the next phase. So since the first stage of construction includes the construction of a channel of length of 14 772 metres, along the planned route from the Sava River to the Konjsko canal and this phase in nature corresponds to the waterway of the BJ, the Bosutsko field, whose construction began in 2008, the correction and argument that they said we were just moving ahead of the elections, we can actually say that the construction of the canal began. In May of this year, the first share of the waterway Melioracian canal was completed about 6.1 kilometers long, and the construction of the second section in the length of 5.9 kilometers is under way, of which 14 is more than 2/3. We've heard about the remaining stages, so let's not say again I'll point out that there are five ports and ports and 23 road and walking bridges planned on the canal. And to conclude the construction of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel by investing 950m euros in Slavonia and Eastern Croatia, a new perspective is being created and the development of this part of our homeland welcomed not only by the inhabitants of Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijem County, irrigation, draining, improving agricultural production, sailing and improving river transport, development of tourism, opening new jobs and stock jobs are the better future of life in Slavonia. I therefore support the proposal for a decision on a spatial plan for the area of specific features of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79416	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79417	Mr. Vice-President, therefore, after Article 209 was injured because I must act as president of the HDSB's Club after legally requested, in accordance with business practice, the breaks on behalf of the Club of Representatives, and your rejection of the opposite provisions of the Rules of Procedure, it was extremely incorrect that and because of the announcement of the representative himself of the HDSB, so raising the plate would be a warning to him, so as chairman of the HDSB's Club, I urge you to respect the terms of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We will continue our legitimate right to seek a break when we consider it necessary, but given the importance of the topic we wanted to talk about in the Croatian Parliament, be assured that we will not give it up. It is not an honor for anyone in the Croatian Parliament, not a single representative, especially the chairman, especially an honorary citizen of a city whose citizens are having a hard time living and going through dramatic moments so that they cannot talk about it in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79418	I remove that objection that I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Col. Buric, MP Zoran Vinkovic, a colleague of Vinkovic, has consistently provoked, insulted, accused outside the agenda, and therefore I also gave him a reminder and a reminder with the withdrawal of the word, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure I did not approve a session of the Club, I served that business provision, that if the representative is dissatisfied with that explanation given by the chairman of the Parliament for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, it is simply his right to ask the Committee for the Constitution to decide. I have provided an explanation, you have not accepted the explanation, you do not accept it now, you continue to insist, therefore, the only remaining thing that remains for me is the arbitration of the Constitutional Committee whether I have or have not hurt the Rules of Procedure. I will not withdraw from Agent Vinkovic because, in turn, when the other MPs spoke to him, Mr Bilić consistently insulted his insults, so I am acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you disagree with it that I am acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and I am giving an explanation that, therefore, you disagree, the only thing left is that, within the meaning of Article 209, he also has a nice greeting for you, Mr Vinkovic, here is one chance again. You think that, don't demagoguely use the difficult situation of the workers of Đakovština, you take the least care of them and do the most of their damage. That's where you'll make the circus and get the circus out, now you'll have your false care and crocodile tears for the workers of Đakovština. Here you go, buddy Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79419	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Re-injured article 209 and you are telling us to take advantage of our business options about the objection. You misjudged. We are not at all dissatisfied with your reasoning, on the contrary, we are very pleased with your behaviour and, respectively, with the problems and problems in which these 350 workers are presently located. We are very pleased that you do not allow this to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. Satisfied with reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79420	I'm not arguing and don't interpret that I won't allow it. This should be proposed, the government is working, and Minister Cobankovic's work and the Prime Minister and Government is working to resolve the burning but cannot be discussed now in the context of the issue of the adoption of the Danube-Sava area's spatial plan for workers and workers of Đakovština. It can't be like that, it's never like that in any Parliament or Parliament. I have a lot of understanding and a lot of feelings and I'm involved in solving this life fate of Đakovština workers. Form a proposal and we'll see, ask in the usual way, and not through another form, the way to abuse the assembly and try on the topic. I totally understand you. Now it's time for everything else. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no more explanation, no more controversy, no more debate about it. We continue the debate, Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79421	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A future multi-purpose channel.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79422	Sorry, you're right. She was a replica of Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79423	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope after this item of the agenda, they'll give us this break we're looking for. But I wanted to replicate to my colleague Susani Bilić Vardic about the fact that the Danube-Save project is still in the drawers of that 2,000-year-old government. Well, we in Slavonia are so in no way in whose drawers it is. Whether it's been standing for eight years in your drawers or four years in SDP drawers, HSS, HNS, I don't know who was such a coward. So it's standing in drawers. But the fact is that and you are constantly fighting the argument that this legislative proposal for a decision on a plan for a special multi-purpose Channel Danube-Sava came to the Parliament's agenda 49 days before the election. That's a fact, so you can't run from it. And the fact that Sava is 300 miles [380 km] of water, do you even know how much the Sava water river is? How many miles is the water? I repeat that question and Mr Filipovic was referred to, do you know how many kilometers Sava is watering?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79424	And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79425	My colleague Grubisic thanks for the information that there is something in the drawers, and I am sure that this will not stand in the drawer because everything that has been done so far has been seen and the first stage of the construction of the canal has begun. And the other thing, what did you say, what explanation? My colleague, I told you, and in the 2006 debate, this plan was planned. Well, we should be grateful that such a big and complex job was done on time. And something else, my colleague Grubisic. We will work and implement this project after 4 December.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79426	And Mr. Representative Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79427	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. The future multi-purpose Channel Danube-Sava as the basis for the combined water-rail transport corridor of Podunavlje-Jadran has long been recognised in Croatia as the conductor of transport potential between Central Europe and the Mediterranean. The real combination of the Rijeka railway link would consist of 61.4 km of Kanal Dunav-Sava from Vukovar to Šamac, 290 km of regulated Sava from Šamac to Sisak and 200 km of the railway line Sisak-Rijek. For the further future is also considered channelling all 3 water stairs Šamac, Jasenovac, Prerečko, Sisak, the first two of which are on the road of transport Corridor Podunavlje-Jadran. The main feature of river transport is the convenience of transporting mass goods, loads on long relations, small energy consumption and labour force, a significantly longer life span and better usability of vessels, greater safety and environmental protection. The European Transport Corridors define the basic directions for the integration of countries. Croatia passes 5B, 5C and 10. Road-rail transport corridor and 7. The Danube Corridor. Channel Danube-Sava as part of 7. The Danube corridor enables the integration of Croatian waterways, as well as the connection of the Trans-European Internal Waterway Rajna-Majna-Dunav with the sea, i.e. with the Croatian sea ports of Rijeka and Ploče. In the strategy of Croatian transport policy, the Channel Danube-Sava is considered in the context of 560 km long combined river-rail corridor Podunavlje-Jadran. The Sava vessel towards Western Europe will be cut short with Kanal Dunav-Sava by 417 km, and towards Eastern Europe by 85 km. Potential transport of goods on the canal. The idea is that the channel connects Central Europe with the Adriatic and that the competitive price of transport attracts cargo from other modes of transport and other traffic flows. The potential transport of cargo on the channel is 7 million tonnes per year, but 30 years after its release, with at least 50% of the traffic being international transit on the Podunavlje-Jadran Corridor, which would significantly increase the transport of Luke Rijeka, and partly Ploča. The main burden would be containers of scattered cargo chemicals and building material. I'll say a few words about Luka Dunav. Location and current condition. The existing Luka Vukovar is located in the town itself on the Danube coast. The company has a tradition for over 60 years. The existing port area has 28 hectares of territory along the Danube coast and 39 hectares of the Danube aquarium. Today's traffic profile of Luke Vukovar thoroughly outlines 10 boat berths along the Danube coast. From this the cap is carried out on four links, on a dry load, on a hairy coast equipped with a Kranj path and a crane. The rest are unsettled waiting bonds. The port has one closed warehouse and a large open storage area. Mostly mineral fertilisers, coal and general loads cross over. Cross capacity is 1 to 1.5 million tonnes a year. In a legitimate sense, Luka Vukovar is a port of importance for the Republic of Croatia open to public international transport and belongs to the euro area system. There is one dislocated circuit for oil derivatives in the special purpose port regime. Travel and excursion traffic is located outside this port more downstream on the Danube coast in the center of town. Luka Vukovar has a traffic-strategic significance in the freight transit at the intersection of the roads between the east and the west and the north and the south because it is located at 3500 km long trans-European waterway Rajna-Majna-Dunav and has a railway connection with the Adriatic. In addition, Croatia plans to develop a strong Croatian Podunnova transport corridor in the future, the Adriatic, whose key part of the future Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel, will be the mouth of the canal in Vukovar. For land traffic goods, the Vukovar port is based on the tenth Sava road-rail traffic and corridor and its Vinkovar station on the 5c road-rail corridor on the direction of Budapest-Ploče. I'd say a few words about other things. We also have objections, some small remarks. I'll tell them on behalf of the people of Vukovar. The canal is the Danube-Sava, and it would be good to start digging from the Danube to the Sava, not from Sava to the Danube. It's our long thought, we warned about it and why I said it. Because the town of Vukovar intersects the channel by half and there are very many infrastructures that need both bridges and replacement roads and overpasses to be prepared. And so I say, I appeal that if the Danube-Sava is to start digging from Vukovar, all works usually start from the river's queen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79428	Thank you. Replications. First Mr. Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79429	I'm glad my colleague Mlinarić called from Vukovar. Well, I was born on the Danube coast, and I watched those ships that were sailing towards the Black Sea, and I was surprised when this idea came up, building the Danube-Sava Canal, because Danube ships can only sail the Danube, they can't sail the smaller rivers. And why do I support it, or support it by the fact that since Maria Teresa when it made any sense because there was no roads or railways, that channel was planned. It didn't work, nor did Maria Teresa, it won't dig it up I won't say another Maria but Jadranka Kosor. It's just that this is only for someone to take money on these papers or on the re-use of land as was the case for me in Brod-Posavina County, this area next to the Sava so that it didn't happen to Vukovar. In addition, why not the channel, because it's simply economically invaluable. We would pay, and others would benefit. When I say second, I mean Bosnia and Herzegovina. If this is in the interest of the European Union, then let the European Union co-finance it. And secondly, because he's environmentally potentially very harmful. I mean the Bosut forest, I mean the Lonj field if the canal is deepened, or the Sava River. This is what associations warned about four and five years ago, I also warned, but the profession has not yet said its own, or the profession has said it is ecologically harmful, but the government is deafening it as if everything is in the best order. So, let's leave these grand projects, let's leave the stock and the Soviet Union, let's go to the irrigation, let's go to the waterways, that's yes, but the canal doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79430	Okay, thank you very much. Replicate response, MP Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79431	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I'm just gonna tell you, this isn't a pre-election trick this channel, it's been a long time about that story. And what you said that Maria Teresa failed to do or do, many things Maria Teresa and Franz Josef couldn't do, but here is the Croatian Democratic Community and the Republic of Croatia, in fact, did many things and we can't go back so many years. And as for the ships that they can't, those ships that are ships of the Danube will be able to sail through the canal. And as for cost-effectiveness, if we look at cost-effectiveness, then we wouldn't start doing anything. This is for all ages, not just for a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79432	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Mlinarić, so here we see from the beginning of this debate that the very theme about the Danube-Sava channel, the multi-purpose channel, is abundant in a number of disagreements, dilemmas, whether the channel is good for traffic-not good, whether it is good-not good, whether it can be realised-cannot be realised, whether it is economically profitable-not. You're now adding a new dilemma, whether it's better to dig from the Danube to Savi or from Sava to the Danube. Don't make it harder yet for your personal local patriotic reasons this serious project. I hope it doesn't come to judgment in your party. On the other hand, let's say that Minister Cobankovic recently said a few years ago that he would quote Croatia as Israel. An interesting statement because Israel mostly does not have irrigation and large amounts of water rather than drop by drop with a very thriftful use, so it might be better to focus on this type of irrigation than on such a large one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79434	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79435	I'm not making it harder for my colleague, but we support the channel with all our heart and soul, but I've only made an observation and the waist will make its own. If the waist says you need to dig on the other side, I don't mind. So the remark is in place, but it's not what you think it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79436	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79437	Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. So we have before us a debate on the spatial plan of the multi-purpose channel Dunav – Sava. With us in Slavonia this theme of the Danube channel – Sava is a kind of myth. So it has already been pointed out several times that the actual documented appearance of the canal itself dates back 250 years and over. Since then, it has been talked about in one way or another, for one or another purpose. But to this day, nothing more concrete has been made. When I say myth, then I say that's what everyone talks about in their own way. From the fact that the businessmen believe that this will greatly improve the economy of these parts of us above all Slavonia that I, as a born Slavonite, cannot live there, so that I do not agree that all that is good for Slavonia and all that can improve Slavonia should be done if it is truly justified. So until we say what as children, so almost 50 years ago we used to say here now that we're making a channel there we're going to go learn to swim. So it's really a myth. All the time of this debate today, there is controversy, so on the one hand, what advantages could be achieved when the channel was built, when it was excavated, arranged and prepared for all of those species, for all the purposes that are therefore planned here. That's why it's called multi-purpose, although at first it was just a story of some kind of river traffic. Only later did it express the need for other purposes. Thus, the traffic characteristics that could be achieved by building such a channel have been highlighted. The transport network of the Republic of Croatia, a very modest river transport network, could therefore be completed. And my colleague Grubisic is right to say how watery Sava is at all. 200, 364 km of this boat. If we're talking about a channel that's going to be category five then let's say that Sava is not a second and third category. What about her? She'll have to dig in just like that. I'm talking about combining traffic will be able to improve, develop, etc. Right, that's what it takes, except for Sava, to develop rail traffic. That's another additional factor. It is said very much about agriculture that agriculture will be improved in terms of irrigation and that is some other purpose that is very important. We saw, we heard in fact where Croatia is on irrigated surfaces. It's all one and a half, two, three percent. There were different numbers. It's obvious that it changes, that dynamics exist. That's good, but it's still a fat, fat start in Europe. Even the press says we're behind Albania on that. We're far behind the South European states, and it's interesting that we're far behind some of the northern European states. Finland is watering more than we are, Sweden is watering more than we are, etc. It is said that the development of other agricultural cultures will be improved – vegetables, flowers, etc. True, fishing is likely to improve, etc. But that's all in the sphere, which would be if one canal were made or excavated. It is said that the water economy will improve the whole of Slavonia, that the water regimes of all those water streams or water stops that engraving such a channel will be regulated, thus reaching into the space that the canal would have. That would be very good. I might experience that Bosut is starting to flow, not that we in the Vinkovci are telling him to run in one direction by noon this afternoon, in another direction. Then at least you could say I really live on the river, not on something that's still. It is said to regulate the different eco-system regimes that are next to the channel. So these are all some advantages that could happen if that channel were made. On the other hand, of course, there are very intense criticisms of such a single project, which points to the possible adverse consequences of such a radical procedure involving tens of thousands of hectares in space and thus certainly affects the entire eco system around it. Ecologists are talking about the issue of flora and fauna that will be around that channel that will definitely be disturbed. The forest waist is very loud on the protection of the spa pool and the oak mussel which is a world-famous brand. In France today, when you do baric wine, they make oak barrels. In this context, the spa pool is also known throughout history. The European Union and Europe as a whole respect it, so we should respect it. As the main argument against such fear of forest professions, some kind of monitoring will be used that will be continued, which will timely point to the need to react if there are any threats etc. Monitoring is one simple follow-up. I'm here modest to say doctor of technical science. Monitoring is a technical term. I don't know what kind of monitoring you can react to an extremely high water wave like it was on the Danube that sinks everything. Or the arrival of harmful toxic substances that can occur in such a large river along which there are numerous economic, or industrial facilities in other countries. Or how to figure out the sentence that won't affect the channel that's 58 meters wide, at the top or 34 meters at the bottom of the depth of 4 meters. Therefore, the trapeze area of 184 square metres, i.e. the total length of the canal, should be taken out of some 11 million cubic metres of ground, i.e. in bulk, is about 15 million. How do you say it's not, that it can't affect the overall change in the environment in this area? If we look at the opinion, i.e. the manifestation of the Croatian forests, they also speak on the one hand about the very high concern for the spa pool, and on the other hand have some inconclusive belief that this monitoring will make it possible to keep it that way. For one unreserved support of this project, for which we are today bringing a spatial plan, and this is an important document, because it can then begin to work, one quality compromise between professions is needed, not now more than our profession, our experts, your profession, your experts, but the comprehensive professions, of all kinds, therefore both transport and agriculture and environmental and forestry and biology, and sociology and geology and all others, so that all of them make one quality compromise, so let's say that it's really one good project. Now, unfortunately, such a compromise does not exist, I'm afraid that this myth that I mentioned at the beginning doesn't turn into another myth perhaps not quite 250 years, but maybe so. I repeat, as Slavonac, I can't be against what should or might bring well-being, but I don't think you've fully met all those conditions that I can say without reservation support for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79438	Thank you. One announcement only that the meeting of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget will be held today on 12 October at 13 o'clock, the hall of Ivan Mažuranić, hall 84 ground floor, and members of that committee undertake to be present. We have two replicas on this exhibit. First is Honorable Representative Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79439	You're saying a colleague is a myth. Well, it wouldn't be the first time we've talked about myths in the Croatian Parliament, and it wouldn't be a problem if it were just a myth that someone didn't have to pay for it, so a billion euros, where is that money I'm asking you? There isn't any money, nor will there be money. And so let's not sell fog because it can't be built because there's no money. We're almost as in charge as Greece. Although I know that the most profitable projects are the ones that start and never finish, and that's exactly the one project that carries with it that potential danger, because it's best to dig a hole, no one can control how much hole you've dug, how much more you need to dig, and the money leaks. It's cheaper than looking for gold like we thought it was the height of wealth. It's best to have machinery and dig holes. These billions or how much better it is if Slavonia wants to help divide it into 10 or 100 different projects, 10 or 100 million euros each, which in a few years will start to pay back some profits, not invest something that will eventually, possibly in 50, 100 or 200 years, be worth it. So we strengthen the economic potential of Slavonski Brod, strengthen the Vinkovci railway network as a strong hub, and the Vukovar port. So that is why with the Danube-Sava channel, reroute cargo from the Danube and the Vukovar ports as one of the largest Danube European ports, so that some of the other ports on the Sava in Bosnia and Herzegovina could be built. I don't really see logic here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79440	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79441	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Pancic, I almost fully agree with you. So when I said that there was a myth, I didn't say mythology since that myth would, and I have to say among the citizens, connects with the other concept of mythology that we have in our country, so a lot of citizens really see this as a project that will channel certain resources to say so where they won't be able to control themselves, where certain builders, if the builders are digging holes, is that so, to engage happily, and some have started to obtain machinery. As regards this development, i.e. assistance to the Republic of Croatia and especially to Slavonia, we have brought, in this term there were two strategies, one is the Strategy of Railway Transport, one was the Strategy of River Transport. Right there we talked about the development of the Vukovar port as the strongest ports, the main ports of the Danube, on the most important river of water, and in this context I absolutely agree with you, give the means to target at this time the port of Vukovar to be the strongest, as well as rail transport. In such a context, the question really arises whether the canal is needed, if the traffic from the port of Vukovar can be directed to the same place where some combined traffic could go even after the dig of the Danube-Sava channel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79442	Thank you. Second replica, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79443	Comrade Heffer, you've said the myth and meaning of the word myth, it's a myth, it's a myth, and we can say a legend, so it's kind of the same as the Danube-Sava channel. Well, you already know yourself, but you're shyly saying that already someone's machines are engaged, you know who's, and when this plan hasn't been adopted yet, but it's already done here and you know who's working. Furthermore, you said about it, you were talking about that the Danube-Sava channel has to lean on the so-called. combined transport. First of all, the railway is thought of, and are you witnesses that these days are written about how it is, and the Drava is covered, so we are going to Drava, Danube, Sava, so the city of Osijek is also thinking about putting into rest the railway of Osijek-Zagreb which is inert. So now you tell me how we're gonna ride together, if that's what you're thinking? So it wasn't designed enough in all segments to make all that transport work. Furthermore, do you know that the Brod-Zagreb railway, its maximum speed, the average speed of 60 kilometers per hour of trains, that from Novska to Zagreb there is only one track, and from Novska to Belgrade there are two tracks, so when we talk about this combined transport, so the Danube-Sava channel must also lean on the development of the other transport infrastructure that would then be included. You also spoke of that line of the Sava River, which is also not regulated. It takes two water so-called water. The stairs. So when will it be built? When will the channel even come into function? I'd like the HDSSB as soon as possible, as I said, is for this project, but let's include all the elements of what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79444	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Heffer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79445	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Grubisic, we are all for the channel, and when my colleague says I changed my mind, I haven't changed my mind, it's most of the people who said they were for the channel because of the multi-purpose. So we find an excuse, somewhat, more or less as who, for irrigation, we find an excuse to regulate the water regime, etc., although we don't think such a irrigation channel is necessary. And as for what you've mentioned, the restoration of the Sava Riverbed, the rebuilding of the railroads, etc., so I'd say that the Danube-Sava channel is just one wheel in all of this, and as long as this doesn't exist, it doesn't work, etc., what are we going to do now to build that channel? But what my colleague Pancic said is important to start such a single project because there can be a lot of digging and there can be a lot of work to be done, and I think there I said about 15 million cc's of scattered land, it's like this one simple calculation by the gauges of the canals. But you see what it's all about to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79446	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this law when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79447	We move on to the Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a spatial plan for the area of special features of the multi-purpose channel Danube - Sava. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I propose a decision on a spatial plan for the area of special features of the Danube-Sava multi-purpose channel. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. Let's check it out. One didn't turn on. Yeah, it's okay now. The decision was adopted unanimously by 77 votes in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79448	We're crossing, we haven't gone to another point yet? We haven't moved on to the second point yet? We move to another point, which is - Proposal for a Declaration on some issues of cooperation between the judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia Proposing the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed an act pursuant to Article 129(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Davorin Mlakar, Minister of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79449	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79450	After the opening statement is given, you will come forward. Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79451	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. As the government announced at last week's session, it came before the Parliament with a proposal for a Declaration on some issues of co-operation between the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. The government is aware of the problems that exist so far in co-operation between the two countries, aware that only its internal legislation cannot resolve all open issues of competence for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, and that it is not also reflected in solutions in neighbouring countries has proposed a declaration that you have received on benches in this text, which wishes to reiterate some important facts which unfortunately have not been fully respected in recent years and in judicial cooperation between the authorities of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. Namely, what is the position of the Government and what is the reason for this declaration is the fact that the Republic of Serbia, by its internal legislation, is passing the Law on jurisdiction of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia, extends the jurisdiction of these authorities and to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The basis for extending the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Croatia does not exist, although what is the basic objection of the Republic of Serbia is the fact that by respecting international legal documents, I will here for the purpose of quoting them, and these are the UN Security Council resolutions no. 777, 821, one from '92, and the other from '93. the years, as well as the resolutions of the UN General Assembly No. 47/1 found that the former SFRY had ceased to exist, that the country had fallen apart and that the breakup had been completed in '92. and that none of the former republics of the former state is the sole legal follower of the non-existent state. Because we think that none of the former republics can take over the entire succession of the former state cannot even base their legal acts on acts of the non-existent state. This was the basic reason why we thought this declaration had to be offered because in the conduct of the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia, these international legal acts do not respect the established facts. And that is why we find it internationally unacceptable, that it is illegal to adopt acts which would extend the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities of neighbouring countries to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The point of the declaration is that, apart from stressing these principles again, this is an internationally unacceptable state's conduct, to warn international acts that regulate co-operation and friendly co-operation between states. The point is to invite this declaration to the Republic of Serbia to conclude with the Republic of Croatia an international treaty that would address the issue of jurisdiction, in this particular case, war crimes, crimes against humanity and crimes of genocide established by international law. We believe that we have sent a clear message to the Republic of Serbia, but also to the International Community that this kind of conduct in the internal legislation of a country is unacceptable and we call for the conclusion of an international agreement to address these open issues. This is the purpose of the declaration and I believe that you will respect both these circumstances and the reasons for the need to adopt this declaration and accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79452	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Prior to the opening of the debate, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic is looking for a word on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79453	Dear Mr. Vice President, since the Rules of Procedure have given me back the power of speech that your predecessor has taken from me in accordance with Article 223. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the HDSSB Club, are requesting a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79454	What's the reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79455	The reason is, among other things, that in Djakov the heart of Slavonia, right now is a dramatic situation, 350 citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79456	Your Honor, you said the reason, and that's enough. Considering I've heard the dramatic situation in Slavonia, 350 workers and that's enough, thank you very much. Since Vice-President Shakespeare acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when he refused to give his word, he was then, since you insisted that you continue your representatives to do so, he referred the subject to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. We cannot, until the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system makes a decision, we can no longer return this subject, thank you very much, until the Committee makes a decision, I cannot now violate the Rules of Procedure in such a way as to ignore what is referred to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79457	The HDSSB will not give up its request for a break, I do not know which consolidated text you read and which Constitution you read, but read the decisions of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79458	Your Honor, when referred once to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system, we cannot do so before the decision is taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79459	The fate of 350 people is more important than we want to correct our own mistakes since the 1990s.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79460	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate and it's the club's turn first, so it's an honorary representative, Ana Lovrin, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go. Please don't throw it out of the bench, don't do it again, don't provoke it again. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of a Declaration on some issues of cooperation between the judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. This Declaration, as said by the minister who was announced at the time we discussed the law on the integrity of certain legal acts of the former JNA and former SFRY and the Republic of Croatia, is now before us as an act of the Croatian Parliament expressing the general position of the Parliament on issues of internal or foreign policy, and on other issues that are important to the state. With this Declaration, the Croatian Parliament clearly declares the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia as a legal successor, the SFRY equal for all former republics of the SFRY, consistent application of the principle of international law, sustainability in order to prosecute and punish war crimes committed on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the belief that no one should remain unpunished for war crimes committed. The declaration establishes that the Republic of Croatia has extended its jurisdiction to the territory of all the former republics of Yugoslavia and thus also to the Republic of Croatia, contrary to the principles of supplementary and international law, especially when jurisdiction is extended to a particular circle of states and it is also clear that this declaration of the Croatian Parliament shows the will to further cooperate, good neighbourly relations and therefore calls on the Republic of Croatia to conclude an international contract that will regulate matters of jurisdiction for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide in full accordance with the principles of international law. Realising that by passing the law, as the minister said, we cannot regulate these relations outside the Republic of Croatia and that we cannot protect our citizens from the application of the law passed by the Republic of Serbia, which is that it leads, prosecutes and judges for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, for all crimes committed in the area of all the former republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It is therefore called for a solid international treaty that would resolve these relations with each other. Although Croatia made its constitutional decision on sovereignty and independence in June 1991 and the declaration of the same year on the declaration of sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the decision to break up the state legal bond of October 1991, clearly defined Croatia as an independent and sovereign state, it clearly denied the restriction and legality of all the federal authorities of the then SFRY and the bodies of the Yugoslav People's Army and established sovereignty amongst themselves and that in the territory of the Republic of Croatia only the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament, and in the transitional period those federal laws which did not put the Croatian Parliament out of force. Although the United Nations resolution confirmed the disintegration and termination of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, although the Constitutional Court and the arbitration panel clearly identified October 8, 1991 as the day since the Croatian state became sovereign and independent and internationally recognised, the recognised state, despite all this, and we discussed last week when we discussed the law on the integrity of certain legal acts, in spite of all this, Serbia was in 2010, or in 2009, and it was in force in 2010, a law that sounded rather benignly, is called the Law on the organisation of judicial bodies in the trial for war crimes, but behind such a law, there is actually one decision, which actually covers a provision of law that makes legal aggression against the sovereignty of all the former Yugoslav states, and so on. Therefore, the law that we have discussed here in front of the Croatian Parliament is a political response to this legal aggression which Croatia has made clear that you and such laws and acts of the former SFRY and JNA, which are actually prescribed and strengthened by the decisions of the Serbian judiciary in the area of the Republic of Serbia, will not be valid in these cases, and that the Croatian judiciary and the Ministry of Justice will not be responsible for international legal aid. There was a lot of debate whether the adoption of this law and declaration would prevent existing co-operation between prosecutors between the Croatian State Attorney's Office and the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, whether the co-operation would gradually stop and benefit war criminals. I must repeat that this is not the case, because anyone who reads the agreement of the prosecution clearly sees that this agreement concerns the exchange of documents and evidence. And let us not forget how this agreement came about, it was created as an agreement by prosecutors to prosecute war crimes, but the first and the main reason why it joined the agreement to avoid trial and punishment by war criminals was because they were inaccessible to the Croatian judiciary and in some rare cases and to the Serbian judiciary. Therefore, the purpose of the agreement is that each state judges the war crimes committed to its citizen who is available to her, and that evidence is exchanged between them which could be supported and served as evidence in the proceedings against those persons. Of course, the agreement is not an international agreement within the meaning of the two states; it is an agreement by the prosecution to help each other conduct the proceedings. Nothing in this law devastates the agreement, but one might fear that the Republic of Serbia will lose its goodwill for further co-operation. I believe it will not be so because Croatia did not cease to cooperate under this agreement at the time of Serbia's adoption of its Enlargement Act as a precedent on the enlargement of jurisdiction and on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This is because at no time do we think we should end cooperation with Serbia as well as with other countries in the swelling and processing of any crime, and mostly war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide as the most serious crimes. And therefore, this declaration by the Croatian Parliament confirms a clear commitment to process, judge and reveal war crimes perpetrators, that no one remains unpunished and equally determines their will and willingness to co-operate with the Republic of Serbia, calling for the conclusion of an interstate, international treaty to settle these issues, which would then be valid for the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we will support the adoption of this declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79462	Thank you. It is the turn of the IDS club, the distinguished representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79463	Mr. Vice President, ministers, MPs. Yes, Mr. MPs, it would be far better for us to discuss football here now than to discuss these declarations, as it is called, a declaration on some issues of judicial cooperation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, and we will discuss the EU declaration later. It is clear that our national interest is one strong Bosnia and Herzegovina, one strong Montenegro, one strong Serbia, a strong Slovenia everywhere is in our interest except for football. And here I want in direct views, first of all, one strong Croatia and a little weaker BiH and also a little weaker Montenegro. And it's a great honor for Slovenia to deprive us of a serious opponent I'm thinking of Serbia here. So that's good because one serious partner is less. But let's not talk football, even though it would be far more serious for us to talk about football today than for these declarations. But I'll go back to the declaration. But when I'm a little bit provoked. There's so much... So let me go back to my debate that I had seven days ago after this pay phone, so first I quoted the president of the republic who was clearly a priori to that law on damage, so I quoted to you a state lawyer who clearly says "the law will ruin our co-operation with prosecutors in Serbia". So I mentioned how many processes were in Serbia at the request of Croatia, so I said that 29 war crimes cases were processed in Serbia, 53 people are being prosecuted, 20 war crimes indictees, 13 convicted of war crimes, 5 judicial convictions, I also said it was unacceptable to retaliate against the foolish Serbian indictments equally with Community law. And now I'm going to say that and we're going to be garnering all of this equally with a "stread declaration" what did Mr. Branko Smerdel say, who is also a member of our Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure? So he says, our laws clearly cannot oblige the Republic of Serbia in any way, as their laws do not oblige the Republic of Croatia. So he said further, so my advice to all who are on Serbian charges is that they do not leave the territory of the Republic of Croatia in any way that the same thing that happened to Veljak Maric and... who, on the basis of a similar indictment, was arrested in London or General Ivan Divjak, whom the entire Sarajevo raced with the right, as it was "Johna Srdel, the Charshija is with you", so somehow, who was arrested in Austria, explains Professor Smerdel, etc., etc. [[You don't understand.]] I'm not going to quote European commissioners, but gentlemen, I'm going to say the following. Only one declaration adopted in this House 20 years ago really had an effect and that was the Declaration of Independence, which was quoted or presented by Mr Shex 20 years ago in the building of the INA. All other declarations afterwards, I dare say, and they were proposed by the opposition, so most of them did not accept them and vice versa, were one of the "drunk grandmothers". Remember, let's be honest with each other like this, any declaration that had one historical or social weight. This means today's declaration bearing the following name, I need to read it, on some issues of cooperation between the judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia will have approximately, and we are all aware of this here, the same effect as that declaration of anti-fascism that we voted under the HDZ government in 2005, and then absolutely nothing happened without counting, and today they are not here, for example. The HDZ partner even some monuments due to lack of building permit cannot raise in some Croatian parts. So, this declaration, we are all aware of the facts as well as of the one about the European Union, we are not going to solve anything. What's the problem, the least we can do is help the real defenders. If, for example, one of the promoters in HDZ thinks this is going to get something, it's legitimate at this pre-election time, okay, they'll probably get something, but by the law of nothingness, and after that, I personally think that gentlemen are doing the damage to the defendants first. No one, I'm convinced, of the 44 "indictees" believes that they can be helped by the law on integrity or by this declaration headed by Vladimir Seks, who said I will travel across Europe, but I will not go to Serbia. I repeat what I said last time, Mr. Shex is packing up, I say it openly, it's delegated a complete set of these indictments, but as I last said about one of those sets of charges I wouldn't put my hand in the fire, but now that he's not at large, I won't mention his name. Normally, no one can impute a genocide, and neither can he, anything else, maybe. The wartime we witnessed in some ways was a strange time. On the one hand, people were doing what was likely to be and what was rightly sang, and some were doing the worst. What Vukovar survived, and this set of charges concerns this very city, I say what Vukovar survived was never survived. Yeah, she's a Srebrenica. I'm talking '45 period. over here. Vukovar is the one who broke the teeth of the Yugoslav army, Milosevic's large Serbian politics, absolutely. However, some of the guys to paraphrase Norc who says something like this today would have done other things, were victims of that policy, which a constitutional judge in his own time summed up in one sentence that said that in a defence war it was not possible to commit a war crime. The former late president went one step further so he said no, at the opening of this school, "Ban Josip Jelacic", meaning that military school, we will not sue them so that they do not sue us. However, we clearly cannot compare the ratios in any way. But what's the point? It's not that we bring these declarations, it's that we solve problems. The charge problem has to be solved. The question arises whether this problem can solve this government, I say it can't. Is it possible to resolve the current minister whom even the ruling majority no longer invites to defend this declaration or that law of integrity or that which will follow? Of course he can't when he's lost under quotes, I won't say legitimacy but in some way support within those structures. If the new government can solve this problem, I want to believe that she can and will. Yes, the coalition has to deal with it. In order to solve this, he must sit at the table with Serbia and try to resolve the problem with their leadership. So this problem will not be solved by us sending each other messages or writing here laws that do not bind them and vice versa, but simply by talking to each other at the highest level. It doesn't matter if this is about the president, whether it's about the Prime Minister or someone else who will actually have that parliamentary majority behind him who will be ready to stand in defense of Croatian citizens. The declaration itself, beware, which is made up of this preamble to half the page and two extended sentences, not counting this argument in a large part, is not even controversial. What is said here is said here by the fact that the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia is inalienable, indivisible, insufferable, ok, it is absolutely clear, reminding that all independent states are created by the disintegration of the former SFRY of its legal followers, absolutely that, acting in accordance with the principle of international law with the states, particularly in the Charter of Inadmissibility, the Declaration of Principles, International Law, Friendly Relations, the cooperation between the States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, the Declaration of Inadmissibility, etc. Yeah. Continue to intend to prosecute perpetrators of all war crimes in accordance with international obligations and internal legal order. That's what our declaration says. Crime against humanity, genocide committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I believe the other states behind the ex-Yugoslavia. Okay. Same for you. However, my view is, or my advice is that before this election, we do not harm this country ourselves. It would be better if one such joint declaration at the same time did not, at the same time, be slightly different from all parliaments or behind them all parliaments of the engaged parties there in the period of '91. '95. A year. But what do we need? Not with declarations, but I'd say by my practice to solve. We just have to encourage refugee returns once already. We need to start solving the succession problem. I don't know how much longer there is behind that state of billions of these euros or dollars, but we need to distribute that. We must influence the restoration of buildings and individuals who have suffered outside the area, who have been directly affected by the war, for example in Bjelovar, who have been excluded from this compensation process and have been loyal citizens of the Republic of Croatia all the time, and we can treat it as a serious crime that has been committed. It is clearly necessary to treat this war crime, it is up to the gentlemen to resolve the issue and the household rights, so for example, just to mention that recently the Republic of Croatia lost one dispute in Strasbourg with one of the people of Rijeka over one of the apartments received from the JNA. A man who was loyal to Croatia, who even put himself in a disposition to Croatia, but who did not tell the bandits to throw himself out of his apartment. Let me find it. Yes, it's about Mr. Peter Orlic. Why not, I'll also mention his name, which has not been compensated, but it will be, and to which one great injustice has been done. Gentlemen, the issue of the economy needs to be addressed. These questions are life issues. You need to renew trust not with these silly accusations that's true. The issue of development needs to be addressed, and this must all be a role for Croatia's future. A fight can't be a future. Conversation, trust yes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Studiary laws no, good neighborhood yes. Unnecessary declarations. In one word of these laws, these declarations I'm afraid as someone said it might have been even the state's attorney going only to the hands of extremists and at this point and the case certainly isn't good. So we're calling in this normative part of the declaration to try to solve these problems at some higher level, and we're actually bringing some things to the final act. So it's not just our future, and that's why it would be really better if I started talking about football to talk about our opponents. Because who we're going to get, whether we're going to place it really behind us can benefit Croatia not from 10 million euros to get the football alliance, but through advertising, etc. The whole beer economy, this one, is just going to work, and that's why we need to support Bilic's boys to persist and finally solve these games in their own favor and ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79464	Thank you very much. Sign up for the menu there and discuss it with them there. We now have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First of all, she's an esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79465	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So Agent Cain said that the adoption of the law on integrity, etc. to harm the accused. It's just not true. The law protects the sovereignty and Croatian citizens and protects them from being handed charges of a thorough, Yugoslav People's Army indictment based on extorted statements by Croats in Serb camps. So it protects them from it, and all that other processing of war crimes can continue with the basis of the agreement. And my colleague Cain used very often, I'd say a rude term stupid or stupid for law and declaration. And if something is foolish and outrageous and stupid, it's stupid to say that it would be more serious to discuss football than to discuss trial and trial for war crimes. So much for a lover of fundamental human rights and happiness that Mr. Cain did not conduct negotiations in chapter 23, because they would probably never be finished with that attitude. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79466	Thank you. We have a second correction to the incorrect assumption. It is the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Cain in a series of contradictions, and I think everything was contradictory about him here. It's time for something, class against. In addition to the others, he said that we were in line with the Serbian indictments by a stupid law. First of all, almost because I didn't hear through his mouth that the word of the Yugoslav People's Army indictment, whose Serbia seems to have become a drug dealer and what question, the question in which amount is contained in the reserve. And as far as the legality of the law is concerned, we are dealing with Serbia's jurisdiction over Croatia which I don't think makes any more sense about, and for all other agreements, talks, negotiations between the ministries, I am the government in any case. But right now, I think it was the only way and the only way to answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79468	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a respected colleague incorrectly said, I quote that the bill and this declaration will in no way help the defendants of Croatia. That's incorrect. At the end of the line, if nothing else will protect them from passing on legal acts that do not comply or agree with the provisions of the criminal procedural and material law of the Republic of Croatia, which is a great help to these processes that are being dealt with. That's one thing. And when he spoke about the declaration he called all sorts of expressions, all sorts of words and challenging calls for an interstate agreement or the conclusion of an interstate contract. Obviously the declaration has not even been read, because the essence of the declaration in point 2 is actually calling for the resolution of these problems by concluding an interstate contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79470	Thank you. And the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic, the correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79471	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79472	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79473	And I noticed the incorrect allegations, I was involved, and of course the one where my colleague Cain told me that this law harms the defendants. That's absolutely incorrect. But here I am now at the end of the term, because I have faced you many times, while we confirm that our thesis that it is better to talk to you about football, not politics, and mainly not national interests, because you and I confirm my own thesis that you do not understand, understand or look from your perspective, which is from the forest, and from the forest is a reduced aspect, is a reduced aspect because there are lots of branches and leaves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79474	Thank you. In the name of. ... Your Honor, you didn't get the word and don't come in. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm giving you a warning because you're taking the right to speak beyond your word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, dear Davorin Mlakar, Minister of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79475	Thank you very much. At this speech by distinguished representative Caine I will say first that I agree with him in one part absolutely, at the very beginning that he should talk about football, I'm afraid he's not qualified either, but your qualification of government documents that have been delivered to the Parliament to discuss them, and that eventually he adopts a proposal and bring a declaration, all of what you said and it's rather harsh terms, I think first it was unnecessary. You could have said that you disagreed, although when you read the introduction or preamble of the declaration, it turned out that everything you read was okay with you. What you read in 30 seconds is some basic principles that are reflected in international contracts, and in the documents of the international community that we have tried to repeat here as reasons and the basis for making a declaration. By assessing the declaration with your harsh words, you have also assessed the documents on which it is based, and since I do not think there is a need to repeat the Council of Security resolutions and the General Assembly of the United Nations the documents on which it is based and the introduction into this declaration are also other resolutions and declarations between others and declarations on the principles of international law on friendly relations and cooperation between states in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, as well as a declaration of inadmissibility of interference in the internal affairs of the States. These are valid documents, which are not only binding on the Republic of Croatia, but also on the Republic of Serbia, which we consider to have broken them by its internal legislation, and therefore, as an expression, if you will, we have called for this issue to be resolved by an interstate agreement, because it is in another way and cannot be resolved. What you were saying about the practice and whether or not the government can or can resolve the issue and that the question in your opinion can be solved by the coalition government, so that's true. This is a coalition government that solves the issue by its own internal legislation, but also by a proposal of an interstate treaty that will then settle matters of jurisdiction for both states in relation to the crimes that are being discussed here. Since you may have thought a little bit better, I think it's enough to say that you agree with this declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79476	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79477	This collateral government, Mr. Minister, cannot even build a monument to the late Serbs in Varivod, for starters. But I quoted, as you noticed, the president of the state who says no to the law, not the declaration. I quoted Mr. Bajic as saying don't do this. I quoted Professor Smerdel, some from the European Union. Mr. Minister, these are the people who are today in the great majority in the Republic of Croatia, and you and your policy in one great minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79478	Thank you. We're going to interrupt now, because I've been asked by a few board presidents, committees are sitting down and meeting to settle some important points that will be on the agenda, and we'll continue at 3:00. The first in line is the esteemed Dinko Buric, on behalf of the HDSSB club. Thank you very much. We continue with the afternoon work and, as I announced on behalf of the HDSSB Club, distinguished representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79480	Here, hearing that REUTERS news agency informs the international public about what was going on in Kosovo during mass protests of citizens in the spring of 1981, the senior party official of the then Communist Union of Yugoslavia roared at the time: "Stop REUTERS". A little less than 2 hours ago, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Ivan Jarnjak did not even thunder to stop the HDSSB, but he made a precedent as rarely happens. A break was made 20 minutes before the scheduled time without reasonable explanation, and all due to the fact that in direct television transmission, there is no hearing about this declaration whether any of the representatives or representatives tell the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79481	Do not give yourself too much importance and compare yourself to REUTERS. Please continue your agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79482	But in vain, all the HDZ gentlemen, what we have to say, we will tell you at any time and in any way, in direct transmission or outside of it because our task is to speak and speak the truth whether or not anyone likes it. That's why I have to tell you before I move on to the agenda point and tell you as much as you take away our word and warn us, turn off the microphones, throw us out of the assembly or not give us a word on behalf of the Representatives' Club as you've done lately, you won't silence us. It's an exact saying that not every truth of everyone's ears, but it's yours, not ours. But let's go back to this agenda point now. Where a grandmother treats a sick fuck. This is an old saying that speaks not only of the vainness of one way of treating various diseases but also of solving various life problems. The current government of the Republic of Croatia is constantly seeking solutions, but it mainly finds one that does not only essentially solve anything important but very often of these solutions makes the problem even bigger. This is the case with last week's proposal for a law of integrity, but also with today's proposal for this declaration. The attempts at revising the Homeland War and the systematic persecution of Croatian defenders are a danger not only to Croatian defenders but also to the very foundations of Croatian independence and independence. These audit attempts are actively attended by various international factors, before all the Serbian judiciary and The Hague tribunal, but unfortunately they include some of our Croatian institutions, various so-called so-called Croatian institutions. NGOs, individual media, as well as the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Croatian judiciary. It is the duty of all state bodies and institutions, before all the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament to resist all these attacks against the Homeland War and Croatian defenders, to come from outside or from Croatia. And how does the Government of the Republic of Croatia resist that? 6 days ago in the Croatian Parliament, we discussed a proposal for a law on the integrity of certain legal acts of the judicial bodies of the former JNA, the former SFRY and the Republic of Serbia. It is a document that neither speaks nor solves the legal protection of Croatian defenders against the persecution of the Serbian prosecutor's office. A document that wouldn't have happened if the latest Serbian indictment hadn't found the name of today's vice president of Mr. Vladimir Seks's Croatian Parliament. The document is with only 4 articles and not full 2 pages of text. Indeed a strong defense of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders. But today we have yet another defence document from the government of the Republic of Croatia, and that is even stronger and even more determined. We have a document in front of us not on two pages but in two sentences. To disbelieving! Declarations in 2 sentences with exactly 82 words, counting and scales, 6 commas and understandable 2 points. The Croatian Parliament would not expect such a declaration from kindergarten. A declaration that, as well as last week's Law on Vulnerabilities in terms of legal protection and the security of Croatian defenders is nothing more than an empty letter on paper. But there are also symbols in this declaration, more specifically on the date on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia brought it. On Friday, 7 October 2011, it was exactly 20 years after the attempted assassination of the first Croatian president, Dr. Francis Tudjman. On that day 20 years ago, a rocket of the Serbian criminal JNA destroyed the Ban Courts, but did not destroy the Croatian soul, determination and courage. They inflicted heavy material wounds on the Ban Courts, but thus further strengthened Croatian pride and dignity. Last week, just one day before the 20th anniversary of that crime, Banski Dvori was wounded again, but this time it's a serious self-injury. What failed with large Serbian missiles 20 years ago succeeded in the current Croatian government. There is no material damage now, but a badly wounded Croatian soul, our national pride and dignity. Where did Croatian determination and courage go? Whatever words and spins we try to justify today's declaration, there are no words and spins that can hide the bitter truth that this declaration is a double of tails before the raised finger of a warning from Brussels. Gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this declaration is a Croatian capitulation. We've heard a lot of things in the last eight years, seen and endured, but this much obedience and courtship and self-indulgence was hard to imagine. So wasn't everything that was enough for Croatian defenders and all of Croatia was afforded by the location, identification, arrest and transfer of Croatian generals to The Hague? By installing politically motivated verdicts to Croatian generals in the Republic itself as in the case of Croatian General Branimir Glavas? By closing and consciously leading to the death of severely ill Croatian generals, what happened to Croatian General Djura Brodarac? With the absence of any reaction to the terrible Hague verdict to Croatian Generals Gotovina and Markac? And even to the Serbian verdict by Croatian defender Veljak Maric? The days of the Croatian bush are now full of Serbian humiliation, and now the entire Croatian people are being cast out of humiliation. The government of the Republic of Croatia is not only a HDZ but a Croatian state. And there's no right to blind obedience. And this isn't the first time. Just a few days ago, and for example, the announced legislative changes in the privatisation of INA, we also had the opportunity to hear and see the truthfulness of Prime Minister Kosor's statements when only a few days before, confidently and courageously, the times passed when Croatian thought went to Belgrade. And that one moment from the outside, now from Brussels of confidence and courage, there's nothing left but a curved tail. For weeks the Croatian public has been listening to combat calls we are not afraid of you. After such moves by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it will take a new battle cry we are not afraid of you, we are only afraid of Brussels. If Croatia had treated 20 years ago cowardly with threats from Serbia and blackmails from international circles that the independent and independent Republic of Croatia never wanted, then Croatia gave way to all dangers four days ago, we certainly would have nothing to mark and celebrate and let alone the 20th anniversary of independence. Wasn't anything learned from the difficult Croatian history, did the Republic of Croatia really follow the political curse of the letter B. For centuries we were under the yoke of Vienna and Budapest, one shorter time and Berlin, then we were in the blood of the 45-year-old yoke of Belgrade, and now you are embarrassingly pushing us under the yoke of Brussels. When we created the Croatian state 20 years ago, we created it to decide in Croatia fate in Zagreb, Croatia, and not outside. Croatian State Authority so-called The defence of Croatian defenders not only protects them but they are thrown out by even greater persecutions and humiliations. You don't defend us anymore because such defenses are becoming more difficult for us. Is this a congratulations to the citizens of Croatia for the 20th anniversary of independence? Such a congratulatory sat down with such a cowardly procedure but I believe you will be reminded of the congratulations of Croatian citizens that you will receive on December 4, 2011. In the end, it is regrettable that neither last week's proposal for a law on integrity nor today's proposal for this declaration solves anything important regarding the real protection of Croatian defenders from the current or future indictments of the Serbian prosecution. Moves that in relation to the so-called The protection of Croatian defenders is being withdrawn by the Croatian government in line with another saying "To whom the grandmother's gata woodwork made his suit come together". And in the end neither will the law of nothingness nor this so-called. The declaration has helped Croatian defenders, but nothing will also help this HDZ government to erase from memory what will keep her remembered and, in particular, Mr. Vladimir Seks locate, identify, arrest and transfer her.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79483	Thank you very much. Your Honor, in your speech, you said a lot of insults and inaccuracy, especially to those of us who continued to be active participants in the defence of the state and later releases. Therefore, take care of it. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations, the first one is representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79484	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect allegation that this Declaration, this Law will not help the Croatian defenders who are accused, it is not true that it will not help them, but it will help them and it is absolute inaccuracy. On the other hand, Mr. Vice President has corrected the incorrect assumption, which is what I would say, you have been addressing one group of people who have been involved in the defence of the Republic of Croatia since the beginning, including our vice president of the Parliament, you are constantly also addressing the other vice president of the Parliament and saying that they will remember him by what you say. I think that he too will be remembered, the gentleman here present Vice-President of the Jarnjak, and many others among us thank God as people who have been willing to defend the Republic of Croatia since the beginning, as co-workers of the first Croatian President and the people who created the Croatian state, I think it is much more important than any interpretation and interpretation that you present it to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79485	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 209. Tudjman, etc. It is true what I said, and your findings on the participation and vice president in the Homeland War, Vice President Jarnjak, that no one disputes, just remains what I said will be remembered as Vice President Seks and many others, regardless of their participation in the Homeland War, will be remembered from the HDZ Summit will be remembered by something else. You know very well what this is about, that's why many of them are in Remetec.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79487	Thank you. This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and please it's just that you're turning a breach of the Rules of Procedure into a replica, I'm not going to let you do it anymore. And now we have a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79488	Dear counterpart Buric, in his speech, had only one mistake, one incorrect allegation that I must correct, the Vice-President of the Parliament was not only stopped by Reuters, but also stopped by HTV and Tanjag, among other things, but as Miroslav Škoro said, "The truth is water deep" and our water is Croatian clear. The truth comes to light very soon. Today is the truth here in this House. Mr. Vice President, you did not allow the HDSSB's Club of Representatives to address citizens who are paying their subscription in front of national television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79489	This is no longer a correction to an incorrect quote. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79490	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a declaration that belongs to the shortest proposed so far to the Croatian Assembly, but it is curiosity but there are many curiosities related to it. First of all, the fact is that the proposal for this Declaration is a fruit of a hasty and desperate action led on Thursday morning, in order to reduce the damage by proposing a famous Law on Vulnerabilities, in order to relativise the hard approach of rulings over the problem that arises in the communication of two judicial systems in the concrete case of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia and in order to in some ways try to cover the shame that has come to light. This declaration calls for the fact that the Republic of Serbia has a law that was passed since 2003, and in 2009 its latest amendments and additions came into force in 1.1.2010, which extends the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia and its legal system to certain crimes and to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So two years ago, the Republic of Serbia passed or their assembly passed this law and the government waited two years to remember that the law could be controversial over something. This is the hypocrisy of this government because while the provisions of this law allowed 28 individual cases to be prosecuted, some of which have already been convicted, when it comes to perpetrators of war crimes and crimes against humanity and those who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but are not available to Croatian citizens, then the government has not objected, has not found it appropriate to protest the law. But when the law began to apply to non-judicial citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then there was a problem. The fact is that the Law on Vulnerabilities has already caused even though it has not been adopted at all and the question is whether it will be, the great damage to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia because of its behaviour, which is estimated to be inconclusive and inconsistencies because all the messages formed by that law and this message are shaped by this declaration, and the law is for domestic use, and the declaration for external use, could be shown in an appropriate way and in the way that countries that have stable democracy, good and quality diplomacy and consistent government policy. It is obvious that the tightening on these issues is in the function of an election campaign, because if it were not, then someone would have remembered earlier that there are some provisions in the law of the Republic of Serbia that may be controversial to us. But here we are angry that the Republic of Serbia is expanding its jurisdiction to the Republic of Croatia. And we called it an outrageous violation of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Well, maybe it's someone's normal, but whoever's a lawyer knows very well that there's so-called. The universal jurisdiction and, unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia is one of the luchens and one of the most fierce advocates of the very principles of universal jurisdiction. In fact, the fact is that in the legal theory, as well as in practice, the question of applying the principle of universal jurisdiction is therefore the case in which the criminal system of one country extends its jurisdiction to other countries in many of its dimensions, because the fulfilment of this principle and its usability opposes a whole series of elements of amnesty, of immunity, of old age and so on. It is true that many legal experts estimate that political abuse can also be the place to implement this principle in national legislation. But it is equally true that the Republic of Croatia also makes good use of the principle of universal jurisdiction in its legislation, so in Article 14 of its Penal Code of Exclusion, it says "to a stranger outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia to a foreign country or to a foreign citizen, a criminal offence will be committed for whom a sentence of 5 or more years of imprisonment may also be tried and convicted in the Republic of Croatia". So, the Republic of Serbia did long ago what the Republic of Serbia did in 2009, because all the crimes that are involved in war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide crimes are punishable with 5 or more years in prison. So that's the first thing. It's another thing. This declaration is a rarity by calling on another country to conclude an international agreement with the Republic of Croatia. Until now, the Republic of Croatia has concluded dozens and dozens of international agreements with other countries and has never, but it has never been the Croatian Parliament that called on other countries to join the signing of these agreements, but rather it was someone else's job. The Croatian Parliament of course adopted them or ratified them, so it will also be in the case of this international treaty if the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia conclude it, but never before has the Croatian Parliament gone so low that it communicates with other countries this way. I wonder, what has the Croatian Government been doing all these years? What has our direct diplomacy done all these years when it has not joined such an important business that it has agreed with the government of the Republic of Serbia to sign an international agreement that would remove all the doubts that arise from this law? What have we been waiting for? Now, under cover of concerns and struggles for the interests of defenders, there is a situation that can cause a lot of damage in both foreign and domestic policy areas. Well, isn't the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, a full 8-year-old leader who is directly responsible for improving the opportunities in which Croatian defenders live? For eight years, he has been head of that portfolio either as a minister or as Prime Minister. Today, saying that there has been a violation of the rights of Croatian defenders actually means only criticism of this government that it has not reached standards in 8 years to protect Croatian defenders. If someone thinks that the law and declaration will solve the problem that on very lengthy charges sent from the Republic of Serbia that have been written by even deeper JNA or SFRY services, they will find the names of our citizens, if someone thinks that they have been protected by the fact that they have been virtually banned from crossing the Croatian border, then that someone is a fat cheater. Explicits in the bill itself are said to be not to exchange any information and cannot be exchanged because the law itself has said, the bill of law, that all charges of this profile are at the beginning of nothing, so no one can act on them or the state's attorney's office in the exchange of information. Because if something is harmful and does not have any legal force, then there is no way that any judicial authority or body in the Republic of Croatia will act on it and exchange information. In this sense, there are no exceptions to the bill and there is now the biggest damage this declaration is trying to repair by calling on our neighbour to the Republic of Serbia to conclude with the Croatian Interstate Agreement. What kind of relationship is that? So are we aware that because of the party's pre-election campaign, we are going to the pre-election campaign in the Republic of Serbia, so whose campaign are you running? There are also parliamentary elections in Serbia soon. Do you think that strengthening relations, ignoring the postulates of regional policy, regional co-operation that has been established in chapter 23 is a way that will be able to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the long term, and in fact goes to the hands of the radical forces in the Republic of Serbia who are looking forward to a fight with Croatia, who are looking forward to us closing the story of the trial of criminals who may have committed these crimes, or suspects who have committed crimes because they will be able to do so in the Serb assembly. And then they have every right to seek such a law and to seek such a declaration and to do everything possible to obtain the signature of an interstate agreement. Is that our contribution to real cooperation and resolving this issue? All serious authorities warn that neither the law nor this declaration can solve the problem faced by citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have been listed on these insane indictments of JNA but only through contacts and agreements at the highest political level, above all, the conclusion of an interstate agreement. But it is not at the Croatian Parliament to call on other countries to conclude an interstate agreement, it is the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If the government has no communication with governments in neighbouring countries, then it is the right state of affairs and then it is necessary to talk and let the government come to our Parliament, to the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia and declare its inability to recommunicate this problem with the Government of the Republic of Serbia because this is the address the Government is responding to. If they have a problem, if they can't communicate, then let them come to the Croatian Parliament, but not through such a proposal declaration to actually tell us one thing and write the other. It is just a reflection of a non-consistent policy that is prepared to buy part of the vote on the right in Croatia, in fact, endanger the current political position of the state. And because this is the product of a non-consistent HNS and HSU policy, it will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79491	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79492	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, it's incomprehensible, unacceptable and completely incorrect to me, but I believe for you too, you're doing a parallel or... between what the Republic of Serbia is doing now towards Croatian citizens in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and what you have stated to exist in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia, and concerns foreign citizens who have committed certain crimes punishable for five and more years. [[You don't understand.]] In the territory of the Republic of Croatia. ... Wherever he is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's abroad, all over the world, just a little bit. So the problem is that we don't have an accomplice in this case, and that's why we bring this up, and we don't have an accomplice because one country isn't acting democratically because it's taking the charges from the aggressors and so now it's going into the structures it's going to. So I don't see any other answer. And to put it back this way that you're returning it would be like giving a cat a mouse to watch over it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79493	Thank you. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well it is incorrect to endanger Croatia's political position, on the contrary, it is very stable and very safe. As far as this declaration and the law that the colleague of Croatia was talking about is primarily about protecting his citizens and having jurisdiction over his entire space and not allowing someone such as Serbia to extend its jurisdiction to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Maybe that's what you want, but we don't want it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79495	Thank you. And we have another correction, the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Beus gave incorrectly for political reasons, but this debate of yours and the general debate in the Assembly would make sense that you called for what is the basis for this all together, and these are the charges of criminal JNA and Milosevic's regime. And be assured, given that you have been calling for it to be in the Serbian assembly so that in Serbia, this is not how the debate is discussed, but it is good for Croatian defenders to see how you think and where you were in '91. No wonder you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79497	Thank you. Dear Davorin Mlakar, Minister of Administration on behalf of the motionary. Here you go. Just a moment, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the honourable representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79498	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Shuker has been injured by the Rules of Procedure, Article 209. He didn't quote my quote that he would like to correct, but he even took advantage of the opportunity to report later and you know well that he didn't answer during my discussion, and that's what your assistant told you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79499	He answered in your last word and didn't do what you did.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79500	No, it's not true. I saw exactly when he picked up...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79501	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79502	No thank you very much, he also brought out a very ugly meal, and you must take care of it as chairman. His lunch where I was in '91. The year is something...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79503	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79504	Which he will answer in court when his mandated immunity expires.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79505	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79506	But don't let the representatives of the Croatian Parliament be offended.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79507	Just like you brought a series of lunches to a series of institutions and the Croatian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79508	Whoever I insulted and slandered, sue me. That's how it's gonna be with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79509	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. ... Don't throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And as for your threat of being with me, don't do it because you have no right to do it and it's you who's practically trying to provoke something that doesn't make any sense. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79510	I'm sorry, but Mr. Beus here takes over. Article 209 Mr Beus takes office here [[- Intruder Capricorn: One moment! I have to give you my word.]] the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia. [[I must give you my word. Dear Representative, Your Honor...]] It's been a while since you sent people to jail, Mr. Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79511	Your Honour, please. First of all, it's no violation of the Rules of Procedure. And secondly, you can't take your word for it until I give you my word. Please! That goes for everyone. Let's go, Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Because of all these grades, Mr. Beus, I'm not going to react, but I have to react to something that's wrong and then to the public, and the basis of his evaluations is a completely wrong impression. Mr. Beus, if you are talking about the principles of criminal law such as the principle of universality, then you must read the whole law in order to be able to give an interpretation of what it refers to, and universal application refers to precise cases of certain crimes that you have not read here or elaborated. That's why I'm going to read just one piece of this material to make it more clear what we're talking about. In the Law on the Application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of crimes against international war and humanitarian law of 2003, the Republic of Croatia installed the Universal Jurisdiction Institute. It has been installed within the scope of which the International Criminal Court speaks as an expression of the solidarity of the International Community to all countries, without segregating selective jurisdiction over the offences committed in the area of certain other countries. Croatian legislation and practice, in place of the processing of these crimes committed outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia, gives priority to the extradition, i.e. the conduct of proceedings before the International Criminal Court or the court of another State which has a closer link to the offence committed and there is a visible intensity of the subsidiarity of the established universal jurisdiction. So, it only applies there and only when a state has a closer connection to committing a crime than would be the case in the Republic of Croatia. It's a question of universal jurisdiction that you didn't present and you totally misjudged it in your performance.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79513	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by Honorary Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79514	So to say that the Penal Code defines what are the acts for which the application of this principle of universal jurisdiction is prevented is explicitly incorrect because the law does not know that definition but knows the exceptions. And the exceptions you're talking about have nothing to do with this. That's the first thing. The second thing, if you do not know what is controversial in applying the principle of universal jurisdiction, then see what your legal experts wrote about it in the Croatian Yearbook for Criminal Law and Practice No 13 from 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79515	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Honorable Representative Ratko Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79516	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. A declaration calling for cooperation between countries by definition should be a desirable document especially when it comes to sensitive relations between states and especially when it comes to sensitive issues which are being broken over the back of certain citizens. But that must be an expression of good faith and say so step forward. This is my opinion of a step in place. This declaration again, in my opinion, carries the taste of interruptions in cooperation no matter what it says. And of course, like everyone else, and I'm going to link it here to this law, the bill of integrity, because it's actually about matter in the package. There's two things that matter. The first is objectively not to annul the Serbian indictments of whatever they are. They do not cancel out because such an effect cannot be achieved to a serious extent, and this should... But that is why the two states fully agree on a joint persecution of criminal investigation and prosecution of criminals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this declaration again, in my opinion, serves to cover up the consequences of the previous bill. However, in the context of this issue that we are talking about and when it comes to the law and when it comes to the declaration. There are two important things in the content as a consequence. The first is thousands of suspects, accused or convicted on both sides. Now you've got it or an enveloped so he's waiting to get ready or he's got a conviction, so he's waiting for a bust. Thus, thousands of such ones remain in interstate relations or in our relationship with Serbia as an uncleared ballast that burdens countries, which is of course important. But it's even more and especially important for individuals who carry that mortgage. It's not about five people, so it has to be cleared up, and I think that matter deserves to be cleared up as long as there is a last case. The idea that the two states together, mutually, with good faith, and we have talked about it so far, is that if you want us and through the media of both countries, on both sides we boast that we have it, or that we have come to that, in the interest of interstate relations, but also in the interest of our citizens, primarily, so that these objects are brought to an end. It was the idea of this joint discussion and let's exchange documents, meetings of state attorneys, and what I know about who I don't, to bring the most important politicians, to bring the cases to an end, to put a judicial point on them. I repeat, it's not about five and it's not about stealing chickens. It's about very important things, and it's about the principle that everyone who's guilty has to be, his case has to be solved, and if he's guilty, it's about where he needs to be. In my opinion, and I agree with those people who have been calling for a profession here, they can't but in the prescribed procedure of facts, arguments, evidence, traits of truth, and then brought out of it justice. That's how it has to go. That's how it has to go! It's not easy to make judgments that I've been guilty of 10 years in prison and prosecuted for 10 years. I'm going to do a little adjudication here, which is an argument to me for what I'm saying. I read the verdict that gave a man 14 years in prison. In the explanation of the verdict, the testimony of a young woman is evidence. The judge asks where you saw this man, he was in that place. What was he doing? Nothing. She says nothing. And the judge draws a conclusion, when he was in the company of those five, he's like them, 14 years in prison, J.B.'s initials. Maybe he's a man and guilty, but I'm saying this because, what I'm saying is it's important to clear up, on that fact, the evidence, the arguments, the truth, and then justice. And this clearing up as soon as possible. The sooner, the better! From these groups as I've divided, I can divide the participants into two groups. First they're involved in a crime that runs away from justice, but hasn't been discovered yet. This is what hundreds count. Maybe three zeroes, but I don't dare say. Hundreds of participants in a crime that escapes justice and has not yet been discovered. The second group is even more tragic, suspected, accused or sentenced in absentia to years of imprisonment, and strong indications are that they are innocent. These count in thousands. The worst and it must not be forgotten, some of these objectively will go underground with the mortgage of criminals and not guilty. I'm sorry, aren't we obliged to put ourselves in that position? All of this can only be resolved by the joint action of two countries with trust and in good faith. It seemed to me that we had recently been two steps in that atmosphere, and the two states are in charge of these tragic truths of working on it, working on it. Don't mind me, I have the impression that the declaration serves as a light blanket to temporarily cover the problem, and what will happen to the dead who carry the mortgage of the crime, the little one who cares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79517	Thank you very much. And we have another club, it's a respectable SDP, on behalf of which will speak distinguished representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79518	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, I would like to say one position at the beginning. The law on the integrity of legal, certain legal acts of the judicial bodies of the former JNA, the former SFRY and the Republic of Serbia and the declaration of some issues of cooperation between the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia is one organic whole. In a political dictionary, it is a legal-political fog to hide the inactivity and irresponsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the protection of Croatian real interests, and hence the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The Government acknowledges that the Law on Vulnerabilities, etc. would not produce any legal effects on the protection of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia even in Croatia, and of course not outside Croatia. Why not in Croatia? Because the law doesn't work backwards, retroactively. All charges or other legal acts which have come to the Republic of Croatia are subject to international legal aid rules. To get the government out of this fog of legal-political memory, the declaration. But the declaration, colleagues and colleagues, is not a legal act but a political act and it is not addressed to any states outside the Republic of Croatia. Absurd is hers which he referred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that declaration was sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Gentlemen of the Government, you must resolve the problem in cooperation with the Republic of Serbia. Go to the talks, the arrangements, and solve the problem with an interstate agreement. That's the meaning of the declaration. Is that what our government needs? Well, I don't need my people, so I don't have to. Now here, colleagues have stated that we have signed countless or many interstate international agreements without such instructions to the government of the Republic of Croatia. With the law of the government, which is the rarity in world terms, after 20 years of independence, the Republic of Croatia sends a law to the Croatian Parliament to say that Croatia is sovereign in its territory. It is one of the absurd behaviours of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then admits that this act does not produce any legal effects, at least good, for the citizens, for the defenders, for anyone. Of course, after such an introduction, we should say that we must all be honest with the defenders. And they do suffer a certain chican from the Republic of Serbia because the Republic of Serbia is indeed leading a certain policy of continuity by sending indictments based on evidence that collected so-called. In our case, JNA was identified as aggressor or based on evidence that was coerced, forced from concentration camps. In this sense, the government is late again to react to such moves by the Republic of Serbia, and in unsatisfactory it does not even know the solution. Why doesn't he even know the answer? Because the Republic of Croatia remains attached to the principles of international cooperation and as a state responsible and credible to the implementation of the obligations it has made to international acts. It's not a dispute between us. No one said that Croatia will play international acts, not only towards Europe, but international legal acts. We are a credible land, and we shall respect it. Serbia remains at the core principle and politics it has adopted far in difficult, more restless times, that it will advocate and work to identify all war crimes, here which have been said, crimes against humanity etc. So we remain attached to these principles that we will establish, process and sanction all crimes and try with neighbouring countries to do so both in their area and for their citizens. If we look at things that way, and that's how we have to look at it, then it's really unnecessary for a fog like this to let go and put party interests ahead of the state. I must repeat that the declaration goes to law enforcement as a police act. And indeed, in this sense, it will not produce any consequences for acts coming from the Republic of Serbia, BiH or elsewhere because there is already an international standard that no evidence obtained in an international legal aid can be used in an illegal manner. This even in the constitutional provision exists with us, I think it's Article 29. The Constitution of the So, the constitutional norm stands, so we in the SDP really believe in the responsibility of the judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia, but we call on the government to continue with the policy that has been established with us. In cooperation with neighbours, principles that apply to the Republic of Croatia and agree with Serbia not to use evidence that is not hopefully in Serbia, and especially in Croatia, valid, legal. In such a situation, we must say that the main objective is to repeat this, that the main objective of the declaration is to amneste the Government of the Republic of Croatia from inactivity, i.e. failing to implement an active policy on the protection of legal and national interests when it comes to the processing of Croatian citizens, and particularly defenders. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament's task remains to ask the Government to protect national interests and, within the framework of international legal cooperation, international legal assistance in accordance with the standards adopted by the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible, to protect the problem between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia and to remove the possibility of illegal evidence, I must repeat, illegal evidence collected by the aggressor Yugoslav People's Army and evidence collected in concentration camps should not be used for the chicano of Croatian citizens. This is the task of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we support it. It may not be bad to mention that it is always good to mention that more of the agreement reached by agreement than several laws that do not produce legal effects outside Croatia when it comes to international co-operation. The scopes of the Croatian laws always remain in the rule, except for the exceptions specifically mentioned always remain on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, for all citizens living or finding themselves in that territory. That rule applies to other countries as well. So our interest remains to continue with the cooperation policy, continue with the policy of determining war crimes that is the first-class interest of the Republic of Croatia because that is what we are asking of the Republic of Serbia. So, if we go back, there's fog left, just fog, not help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79519	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, and we're done with clubs. The first is the honourable representative of Stazic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to begin my discussion with three findings of the distinguished representative Anna Lovrin who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club. She said this declaration declared the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. If so, then the declaration is completely unnecessary. The sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia should not be declared, it is a fact, the Republic of Croatia is an internationally recognised state and no declaration will strengthen that sovereignty. The second finding, which was respected by Lovrin, said this, is aware that by passing the law, we cannot protect our citizens from the possible criminal persecution that started in other countries we bring between this Declaration and this Declaration. I'm glad that, on behalf of the Club, colleague Lovrin said that this law on integrity that was being debated the other day, we really can't protect our citizens. And the third thing Mrs Lovrin said was that by extending jurisdiction, the Republic of Serbia carried out legal aggression against the Republic of Croatia. When this expansion of jurisdiction took place, the last amendment there to their law, which entered into force on 1 January 2010. So when this legal aggression was established, why did the government not act on 2 January 2010. So we have an ambassador to Belgrade, I guess he informed the foreign ministry that Serbia has extended its jurisdiction to Croatia. If she's doing her job, if that information came to the Foreign Ministry, I guess the minister forwarded it to the government. Why has the government been silent and doing nothing for two years? And he knows that aggression is legal. Well, the government was due to begin diplomatic activity at the same time and what it now provides for this Declaration is to agree on a state agreement, but it took two years for her to do so. She didn't take her finger off. Now, however, both in this Declaration and in the Law, it wants to affirm territorial jurisdiction as the only jurisdiction that exists, which is within the legal theory and in legal practice other than territorial jurisdiction, there are other types of competences. There is, for example, an active personal competence on the principle of active citizenship where in some countries courts are competent to judge their citizens, for certain crimes committed outside the territory of the country of origin. The example is the United States of America which, as you know, ministers will not be put under the jurisdiction of this permanent international war crimes court in The Hague because we United States can judge our soldiers if they commit war crimes somewhere, we are able to do so, we are a strong enough state and we have a strong enough judiciary and we do not allow Americans to be tried by any other court or even international. It is not recognised that territorial sovereignty is the only one in force. There is a principle of passive citizenship where certain states judge or declare themselves responsible for the crimes committed against their citizens anywhere in the world. Again, the example of the United States of America in Guantanamo brings citizens of other states there and brings them to court. Neither was the crime committed on the territory of the United States nor was it an American, judging other citizens. There is also a universal jurisdiction under which every state is authorized to initiate proceedings against persons for the most serious crimes such as crimes against humanity, war crimes, genocide, torture, torture, arbitrary executions, slavery and trafficking slaves. The classic example of universal sovereignty is the trial of Adolf... The crime was not committed on the territory of the state of Israel, he was tried in Israel as you know. In fact, the state of Israel at the time of the work was not a state. And yet he was judged in Israel according to the principle of universal jurisdiction. It is not the last case, and after this war, some countries in the late 1990s carried out actions against citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina for war crimes committed in this war. So Refik Saric was sentenced to eight years in prison in Denmark. Neither the war was waged in Denmark nor he committed the crime in Denmark nor the Danish, nor the Danes were victims, but according to the principle of universal jurisdiction, Denmark arrested him, found himself there on their territory and condemned him. It happened in Germany, too. Several BiH citizens were tried, one of them for genocide, it is the first assessment of genocide since World War II. His name is Nikola Jorgic and he was sentenced to life imprisonment. Such punishment would not have been given in either Serbia or BiH, as the maximum sentence for such an act was 20 years in prison. So that is the application of the universal competence that exists and is recognised by the EU as well. Not to be recognised by the EU, it is also recognised by the Republic of Croatia. Not to admit it, but to apply it. Croatia has tried Fikret Abdic for war crimes committed in BiH, over the Bosniak population. Neither was the crime committed in Croatia nor was it committed by a Croatian citizen, nor were the victims Croatians. But Croatia applied the principle of universal jurisdiction and sentenced Fikret Abdic to 15 years. There he is in Pula, supporting the punishment. And now we say that another state is committing aggression towards Croatia, when it wants to apply that same principle. No one else, just that same principle. If that were the case, Croatia would also commit legal aggression against BiH by judging Fikret Abdic. Of course there is no legal aggression here and of course the Republic of Croatia had the right to judge Fikret Abdić according to the principle of universal jurisdiction. Every country has an assignment to protect its citizens. It's also the Government of the Republic of Croatia's mission. Is that what she did? It's not. It's not. And why not? Well, not because of Serbia's behaviour, but because of its own inactivity. She could have made a state contract a long time ago. So far, we've created nothing but co-operation between the two prosecutions. And as we can see on the other hand, there is will and political will and judicial will to bring criminals to justice. This law that you have proposed about nothingness, be careful what you seek. Under that jurisdiction, these people in Serbia are sentenced to 20 years in prison for Ovcara, 13 of them. If we're asking it not to be worth it, we're looking for an annulment of those verdicts. We demand the annulment of those judgments. And these judgments are just and welcome and they show one will both legal and political to prosecute crimes committed in Serbia in Croatia. So this is one game, one so we can say spin, one eye rub, one attempt to say, here's what we're doing, we're protecting our people. And we don't protect them, we don't do anything smart, we don't do anything effective. In that sense, we should look at this declaration. She sounds good, she won't make anything worse, and she won't fix anything. The time to do something was enough and should have been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79521	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79522	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll keep correcting the incorrect quote both this one and the previous one when you say this isn't any instrument of protection, that this is eye rub, how this is and that. This is the answer to the trouble, this is the answer to the situation we've been brought into. And we weren't brought here because we wanted to be brought here, but because someone abused all these instruments that you're talking about should be built with the Republic of Serbia and trust in both this and that, etc. So we're forced to do this. And especially fellow Stazic are unacceptable and inappropriate examples when you compare the trial to criminals who have committed aggression, for example. The Republic of Macedonia, BiH and what the criminals did to the nation of Israel and later responded. Well, it is an internationally recognised crime, Serbia has suffered among other things from the Security Council for the crime, due to aggression against the Republic of Croatia and BiH. And a parallel or parable would be correct to give me an example when democratic Germany conducted one case against a Jew or anyone who committed a crime against Fascism led by fascist Germany, and that would be the parallel you speak of.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79523	Thank you very much. Second correction by the distinguished representative Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79524	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, Mr. Stazic, you're speaking as the defender of Yugoslavia, I understand that you speak in this way, but it does not really give you the right to entirely wrongly claim that this government does not protect national interests by this declaration and by law. It is precisely that it protects national interests, protects its citizens and protects the defenders. And let me tell you to the Yugoslav Attorney General. Back in the '90s, you handed over weapons to that same JNA because you didn't know whether it was in the protection of Croatian national interests or those who attacked us on 25.6. You didn't know if you were for the independence of Croatia. And let me remind you, Mr. Stazic, in 2003, when all the ambassadors were the SDPs and so did the one in Belgrade, and they didn't follow the laws at all, and that's why we have this today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79525	Thank you. You're out of time. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79526	I apologize for taking the floor again, Mr. Vice President, and I just wanted to say something about the speech given by the distinguished representative Stazic. Unfortunately, you weren't. We were already discussing that universal jurisdiction. In order to apply that principle, there are certain assumptions. There are no assumptions here. You've taken some examples from history that are very different. Not all relationships can apply to this case. However, what is important, what I was actually going to say, is your conclusion that the government has not done anything about this for two years, that it has not referred to the amendments to the laws passed by the Republic of Serbia. The law came into force at the very beginning of 2010, however, on the same day, so no one could possibly follow the legislation of the Republic of Serbia to know each article of each law they passed, but in fact, the reaction of Croatia took place when the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia began to act under such a amended law. And what's said, we had to find a way to give our judicial authorities an instrument to defend ourselves from the documents or this wave that has now come, and an example of 44 indictments is given. But more important than all that, and independently of what we talked about, what we are removing from the possibility that the Republic of Serbia is acting in this way is the fact that the former SFRY has been found to exist by international legal documents, that there is no state that can be a legal successor and the SFRY, on behalf of that SFRY, on its own behalf, and on the basis of documents, the non-existent state to act, and especially not to third countries. Therefore, it has been established that the SFRY has ceased to exist, that none of the former republics are its sole legal successor and that it cannot act in view of this fact and then also related to these documents which are de facto non-existent, i.e. documents of the authorities of the State that are already in existence. So we based and preambled these declarations to simply give up the possibility of anyone calling for some continuity of a state that doesn't exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79527	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is next, honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79528	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I will begin my debate with the Supreme Court ruling of 2.6.2010, which is important for the fate of a Croatian general who is now in prison in Mostar, is called Branimir Glavas. But it's also important for this declaration, and it's important to me and to all of us who were part of the Homeland War. It is also important for all citizens who may go from tourism initiatives to Serbia. But it is important here and for some of the speeches that some MPs, who obviously do not realize that Yugoslavia is no more and that there is no more great Serbian idea, talked about some collective responsibility. Well, here's the deal. It is therefore the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, it can be considered, among other things, that it was the first-degree court’s failure when it was written in the reasoning of the rebuttal that by February 15, '92. The Republic of Croatia was not a state since the subsequent text of the reasoning shows that the first-degree court respects the decision of the Croatian Parliament on the termination of all the state ties of the Republic of Croatia with the other republics and provinces of the SFRY of 8 October 1991. A year. Now what's most important, in the view of this second-degree court, is this very decision of October 8, '91. the year from which the Republic of Croatia used its sovereign right to decide independently on state-owned commitments and associations to which accessions and from which the Republic of Croatia steps out as an independent and sovereign state has become independent of any other state and association. State and from that moment on, so only since October 8, '91. year considered Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia there is a beautiful our sovereign Republic of Croatia. And this ruling by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia says that all those who were members or people's protection or the National Guard Assembly or the Croatian Army were actually criminals who attacked a great beautiful country in which the entire Croatian people were imprisoned. It is clear from this judgment that this declaration, including the Law on Vulnerabilities, is a good one, as these PRs say, a good spin, will talk a little bit about it, but it will not help the incarcerated Croatian generals or Glavas in Mostar, or Gotovina or Cermak in The Hague. ... Marker in The Hague, I apologize. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It was a little short for Cermak to finish, too. And Veljak Maric, who was imprisoned in Belgrade as a Croatian citizen, will not help as a Croatian volunteer. After all, these 44 will probably not help, nor will the missing Vice-President of the Vladimir Seks Assembly, who is likely to be followed by Interpol by the Republic of Serbia, so they won't have to and will not want to travel to Serbia to travel across Europe, so someone will arrest him and jail him. The slightest wish for that to happen to anyone. But the law on integrity and this declaration, and there have been a thousand since this Croatian Parliament, have not helped bring what awaits us, which is that at this time the Republic of Serbia was then in '91. Thanks to the Yugoslav army, the idea of Greater Serbia, the idea of Slobodan Milosevic about Karlobag, Karlovac, Virovitica, about the idea of us being re-emerged, so after '91, after the establishment of the SAO Krajina in Slavonia, and I remind you that through one constitutional law, a national minority wanted to re-form the SAO Krajina in Slavonia on the basis of territorial structure, legal personality and a special way of financing. My faith forbids me, so I have to lift three breasts like this because I know who raised three fingers together. And instead of having one today, after a bloody war in which Croatia was not an aggressor, in which it was attacked because we did not bomb Belgrade or Cačak but they bombed both Zagreb and Đakovo and Vukovar and Karlovac and Split and all the other cities and villages in Lepoja ours, but just them. Today, we have again the Serbian aggression against the Republic of Croatia. This time, not with bombs, this time with charges. But that aggression comes from this Parliament. So I'm just going to quote, try or paraphrase what counsel Gajica said in the discussion one example that a woman against that said nothing, but the judge sentenced him to 14 years just because he was with them. And that's the condemnation of all of us, because we were with them and Veljak Maric, as well as these 44, but also with the generals who are in prison. This resolution and this law will change nothing. None of us will be able to cross the border and go freely to Serbia. I'm personally scared, and I don't want to go there at all, and I don't want to have a job and I don't want to be made by love. But it's just that some people have to go to work there. I remind myself that a few months ago we were in the spirit of re-balkan convergence, although I don't know we kissed three times, but we kissed both President Tadic and Minister Vuk Jeremic. We kissed small and this way north and with Pahora. Well, I don't know how many times, but I remind you that we have a new aggression against the Republic of Croatia by Serbia, and by Slovenia it may happen to us that since we have passed that great law on the arbitration agreement, that we may also be moved in the middle of Zagreb. Then perhaps the border of Slovenia goes here where Vice President you are sitting, because this Croatian Parliament has said we will sign the decision of international arbitration. This isn't about stealing a chicken like Agent Gajic said. This is about the fate of all Croatian defenders, it's about the dignity of the Homeland War, it's about one state, it's about the entire Republic of Croatia. And there aren't any of these colleagues here from one political party, but there's a nation out there that's not just their saying to such an angry wound should be answered with angry grass. Croatian diplomacy should also, instead of such resolutions and the Law on Vulnerabilities that are passed only before the elections, be answered by diplomatic war. I do not call for war but both Tadic and Jeremic and the entire Republic of Serbia must understand that the Republic of Croatia is a sovereign state and that they can only have jurisdiction over their citizens, not the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that's the answer that should be sent to them, the only possible answer. No resolution, no law, no declaration. Either the resolution or the declaration. That'll help at least. The imprisoned Croatian generals and at least will help your colleague vice-president of the Parliament, as well as all other Croatian defenders. And the sooner we figure it out, the better. One more sentence. No more big Serbia, no more Yugoslavia, and that should be clear for Tadic, Jeremic and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79529	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic is coming up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79530	Continuing. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The declaration itself, as counterpart Leko said, is a political act. It does not produce any legal act or legal consequences in this regard. We also had a declaration on the Homeland War of 2000, although some politicians here in the Parliament do not have them present, it is not nice to speak, but on April 28, 2010 Mrs Vesna Pusic said in the Sarajevo list "Days" that the Declaration of Homeland War should be marginalized. And it is marginalized as it is and this declaration itself is actually marginalization I would say and in fact a statement of inactivity, irresponsibility, inability and inaccessibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Why do I say that? Well, it is true that as early as January 2010, Serbia passed its law that actually extended jurisdiction for war crimes and genocide to all the republics of the former Yugoslavia, regardless of what was known and that no one reacted precisely from inactivity, inactivity, irresponsibility, impunity. Let's say the state's attorney's office of the Republic of Croatia has a folk exchange of information, scurrying, etc. with the same State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia. And then all of a sudden, the surprise comes to 44 counts. On January 6, 2011, I already had that list in my hands all by name as it stands now. So, I'm kind of saying not to mention a minor man from the periphery, out of law enforcement, I had that list on January 6, 2011 when I held a press conference. So then the gentlemen of the ruling party were saying that there are little parties who have nothing better to do than deal with the Homeland War and show them things that aren't true. And you see, it happened that they were true. Nothing is obtained by declaration, or by the law of nothingness that was here a few days ago for discussion. When we talk about the facts that Mr. Gaitsa was talking about. The fact says documents, arguments and truth. The fact is, he's not here again, and I'm sorry that 28 children died in Slavonski Brod in 1992 from the bombing of the Serb Chetnik army and Serb aggressors. The fact is, Mr. Bajic has never charged a known or unknown perpetrator of the heinous crime. It's a whole class of kids for 20 years here almost there's no sign of it, no vote of any kind. The fact is that it is either an argument or a document, however it will be, that Veljko Maric, a Croatian defender, was tried, arrested in Serbia, was tried for alleged acts done in the Republic of Croatia. Now look at this absurd thing, it's really a comedy of absurds, a Croatian citizen of some kind I don't know, I don't know exactly what exactly this is about, let's take into account some of the works that were done in the territory of the Republic of Croatia was tried in Belgrade. Isn't that absurd? How did we react to Mr. Veljko Maric? As the Croatian Government, the judiciary, the state's attorney, etc. reacted.? Not at all. Nothing. The man was tried, and his sentence was handed down just the day these charges arrived. Coincidence? Coincidence? Oh, no, no. It's all calculated. And then here, I would say, as someone said selling fog or planting coward's eggs, we are trying to explain that this declaration protects the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia or the legal, therefore the legal sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. We're not protecting anything. We have fought our sovereignty in the Homeland War, but apparently some can't protect it. They are unable to maintain the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. It is a problem, this incompetence, this impunity, the carelessness of Croatian defenders. And let me also say that actually when it comes to facts, documents, arguments and the truth, it's true that it's the truth that it's the Abolition Act of '97. The year has come that thousands of those suspected of committing war crimes have been abolized and are walking around Vukovar today, walking in eastern Croatia, in Dalmatia, in Knin without any shame or shame and looking at their neighbors to whom they have done evil, look them in the eyes. That's what Mr. Gaitsa is talking about. But if it is already about the Abolition Act, then there is an article in the Croatian Constitution that says that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to participate in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. That's what it's for. And there's a law on military service in the Croatian Army, and then deserters are mentioned there, and not only were those who were abolized not deserters, but they raised their hands and weapons to their country in which they live, and there's an article in the Constitution that can be regulated legally, so when someone says they can't undo the Abolition Act, and I say they can. He's got a constitutional foothold so it can be annulled, so we'll talk differently. Not as it is now talking, and Serbia is judging us for something that has been done in Croatia by Croatian people or I don't know who, it doesn't matter, Croatian citizens, but done in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, over which the Croatian state must have sovereignty and also legal sovereignty normally, as well as any other. When, was there an indictment and a warrant for questioning, the arrest of Vesna Bosniano, how did we react then? Same as Veljak Maric, or very similar. No big pomp and no dust. What can be achieved by declaration? Nothing. What can be achieved by the Law of Nothingness, as the title itself says nothing? Nothing. That Serbia needs to be pressured, the Republic of Serbia with the arguments that we have talked about here, that in that, when we have no other way out, but by means of a bilateral agreement, we must commit to, that extorted or false evidence, facts, documents and arguments are not used for indictments, that is. So these are, they have to be declared illegal evidence, illegal evidence after which these charges have to be dropped. It is clearly not a matter and it is not the task of this declaration, but of the talks, agreements and agreements between the ministries, between the governments of the two states. No declaration in the Croatian Parliament will help. As that declaration since 2000, which many also do not respect anymore, and to me it is significant, but it has fallen a bit into oblivion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79531	Thank you. It is next to the honourable representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What about the declaration? We've heard from some parliamentary deputies that it's a great document that's going to solve a lot of things. We've heard from other parliamentary deputies that it's a completely unnecessary document that won't solve anything. We heard from fellow Gajica, who spoke in front of the SDSS club that there was a third time, a third truth and that there were other solutions. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work in a completely wrong way for 20 years. We essentially need people who are capable of quality co-ordinating their work among at least three subjects when it comes to war criminals and war crimes. Since '91. In the year, I would say, day by day, there was coordination between the Ministry of Defence which should have been monitored by the units in which area, who is leading them and what crimes have been committed, then there is the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. Such coordination in the last 20 years, unfortunately there was no, or only occasionally there was a certain coordination, but it was poor. Then we need good diplomacy. We heard from the minister that the ambassador and his associates in Belgrade didn't notice these changes in the law, they didn't register them, they didn't inform them, and only when the indictments started that we understood clearly what was going on. My colleagues and colleagues, let's start with ourselves. I am a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, some of you are sitting in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the third sitting in the OSCE, the fourth in the Interparliamentary Union. My colleagues and colleagues, how many times have we sat down in 4 years and agreed on what and how will we defend Croatia's interests in clearly war crimes and all related to crimes committed during the war in the Republic of Croatia? We haven't met once. I suggested it to the head of our delegation, and I don't blame him because probably the other delegations didn't do anything. I've been begging and I've also been to see President Bebić to warn him that there is no coordination. We've never had professional support from individual ministries, we've never had any logistics. We were helped by people in Strasbourg on our permanent mission, however, it is more technical assistance than political content aid to see how many issues can be addressed. My last conflict in the Council of Europe was last week with a United Kingdom delegation who continues to interpret war in the former Yugoslavia's space. And I'm trying to explain to people that it's 4 wars, a war in Slovenia, then a war in Croatia, followed by a war in BiH, followed by a war in Kosovo. All four wars were initiated from the same center, no one ever explained it to them. All four wars were coordinated from the same center, military operations, JNA officers were in the field and so on. "The Krajina", but also elsewhere across the former Yugoslavia. The weapons came from the same source that armed those who clearly waged the war. Even the realisers, the performers of individual operations were the same as the one that clearly sought to animate the Serb population wherever it could be clearly camouflaged and all depicted as civil war. Finally, such a way of working, and perhaps, now the minister I also greet has entered, I would like to say one more thing. I have a document, it's not classified, where one person from the Ministry of the Interior has been warned by colleagues at the Ministry of Justice and the State's Attorney's Office that it's been eight years since the last decade, eight years haven't been found to solve and coordinate war crimes issues. Eight years Minister, that's terrible! The attorney's office reports to the police, the police pick up an international warrant, if the red warrants locate him, lock him up in an extradition prison for 18 to 45 days, and the Justice Department is unable to prepare a memo to hand him over because he doesn't know what it's about. Believe me, I have the documents. It's sad. I'm not saying it's your fault or your period, but unfortunately that's what's happening. So I'm just appealing let's finally coordinate our activities, let's be extremely serious, let's not work this way. This is my Homeland, and your Homeland and we all probably want just as well. It bothers me already, I call it four truths about my country, about the Homeland War, four truths. Croatia's truth, I will repeat them once again, says that there has been an aggression on Croatia, that during this aggression 15 thousand citizens have been killed, that during this aggression, huge material damage has been done to Croatia by several tens of billions of euros, but Croatia often forgets to say that hundreds and hundreds of citizens have suffered needlessly during some operations. There is a Serbian truth about the war in Croatia. Serbs don't remember there was any aggression at all. They will only mention every single family that died during the war or after the war operations, with the full right to state it, but always clearly one segment of that truth. There is also international truth, colleagues and colleagues, an international truth that silences a lot of what they did wrong. Vukovar's a good example, Srebrenica's second. A former ambassador of a Western European country came to me and said to me openly: "You know, Doric, we know what you are doing both in the Council of Europe and in many other places. Now I'm going to tell you the great truth about my country. When we met in the summer of '91. We didn't know what was going on in Yugoslavia. We thought it best to advocate a single Yugoslavia. That was the attitude of Western European forces. And only one man worked on the project to maintain Yugoslavia, it was Milosevic. And we gave him the green light to bring order to the former Yugoslavia in 14 days, to keep the country unique. We made a huge mistake because when the army went after Vukovar, only Vukovar and the siege of Vukovar lasted 87 days, we realized that he couldn't and won't do it, let alone in the 14 days we gave him." The expression used by the ambassador, the former ambassador said "We will turn a blind eye" – so we will turn our heads in those 14 days. That was their solution. And there is, colleagues and colleagues, the fourth truth, and that is the whole truth about the war in both Croatia and the space of this former state. So let's start talking about the whole truth at last. I also ask you colleagues from the SDSS when you speak Croatian truth, and we Croats can expect significant shifts in the territory of Croatia, but also in the wider space of other countries created in the former Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79533	I have to intervene anyway, there are no four truths, there is only 1 truth about Croatian history, and that is Croatian truth and that is what was really happening. And today, fortunately, there are many more living participants in this event, and they can and should tell that truth. Unfortunately, it's very rare. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79534	Proposal for a declaration on some issues of cooperation between the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a declaration on some issues of cooperation between the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. Please, let's get involved and vote on the Declaration proposal. Always check because if it doesn't automatically it doesn't mean it's okay. Thank you. Score. 75 votes for and 1 abstention and 1 against this Declaration has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79535	We move to the third item of the agenda, that is - Proposal for a Declaration on the promotion of European values in South-Eastern Europe Proposing a declaration by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Gordan Jandrokovic, foreign minister and European integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79536	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Declaration on the Promotion of European Values in South-Eastern Europe prepared in the context of the conclusion of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I remind you that in 2005, when we opened accession negotiations with the European Union, we did so to encourage the great European project, driven by the desire to become its integral part and return to the cultural circle that we truly belong to. During the complex negotiation process, we have proven our credibility and internal strength for all the comprehensive, very complex reforms. Our efforts have yielded fruit and Croatia will be fully prepared and equal to the other members of the European Union as its 28th member. Seven. 2013 For this reason precisely strengthened by the conclusion of negotiations and the fact that we will become a full member as I said in mid-2013 we will decide on all issues concerning the European future, of course we feel some new obligations and responsibilities today. Therefore, Croatia today, called upon by its positive example, wants to encourage a vision on which the European Union's project rests and wants to encourage enlargement. We also want to encourage a vision of peace, freedom, the rule of law and the social market economy. With this proposal, we also want to give additional weight to the fact that we will continue to promote European values and support further enlargement of the European Union. Supporting all candidate countries and potential Southeast European candidates in achieving their European and Euro-Atlantic perspective. As a member of NATO and soon the European Union, Croatia considers enlargement policy to be one of the most successful policies of the European Union. It has benefited all countries that have become part of a large common political and economic space that accounts for more than 500 million inhabitants. From the European perspective, the objective of enlargement is very clear, simple, to expand the area of peace, stability, progress and rule of law across Europe, to work towards achieving stability and prosperity and to continue in this area in the area of the southeast of Europe. It is clear that all candidates for membership must meet the strict criteria before they join the European Union. Since the establishment of stable democratic institutions guaranteeing human rights, the rule of law and respect for minorities, to a competitive market economy and the implementation of the legal order of the European Union. Therefore, all those countries that claim to be full membership must pass through everything that has passed Croatia and only then will they have the legitimacy to become a full member. The continuation of reforms in these countries is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia because these reform processes undoubtedly have a stable and development dimension for the whole region both in political and economic terms. And it is particularly important for us because of issues such as environmental protection, energy security, tourism development and the attraction of guests from the rest of Europe and the world. Croatia is therefore determined to continue the process of enlargement based on the takeover and the consistent and rooted implementation of the acquis of the European Union. On this road Croatia helps and is ready to help with its acquired knowledge and experience and continue to assist all those countries that see their future in the European Union, of course I am thinking first of all about the countries of Southeast Europe. As we have pointed out several times, it is our view that an open issue between countries of bilateral character, such as border issues, must not hinder the accession of candidate countries to the European Union from the start of the process until the entry into force of the accession treaty, and we are confident that it has just reached an agreement with Slovenia, we remember the agreement of the Prime Minister of Ms Kosor and Slovenian Prime Minister Pahor on resolving the border issue in September 2009, that agreement set a good example for everyone in the region as well as how these issues should be addressed. Croatia, therefore, is a regional model of positive change, its almost membership in the Union is an additional motive for all Southeast European countries to continue further reforms on their Euro-integration path. It is also important for Croatia and will continue to be profiled as unquestionable in the region of Southeast Europe, the centre of positive change and the generator of progress. The proposal for a declaration is therefore considered by the Croatian Government to be a gesture of support for the countries of Southeast Europe in achieving their European and Euro-Atlantic perspective by the basis of the evaluation of individual or individual achievements in meeting the criteria set out and the acquisition and implementation of the legal acquis of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79537	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. He's not losing his right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79538	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here is the proposal for a declaration on the promotion of European values in Southeast Europe, and as the minister said, it is indeed one gesture of support for the countries of Southeast Europe when entering the European Union. Following the conclusion of the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union and multiple contacts with the European Commission as well as with the Member States of the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a declaration on the promotion of European values in Southeast Europe. The declaration gives support to Southeast European countries in achieving a European and Euro-Atlantic perspective on the basis of an individual value of achievement and a strict and fair assessment of progress in implementing the necessary reforms. It is also expressed the firm view of the Republic of Croatia that open issues between countries of bilateral character should not prevent candidate countries from joining the European Union from beginning the process until the entry into force of the accession treaty. Powered by the completion of accession negotiations and by joining the European Union, Croatia becomes the 28th member on 1 July 2013. The Republic of Croatia will continue to promote European values and peace, freedom, rule of law, democracy and the social market economy. As a NATO member, and soon the EU too, Croatia will particularly worry about promoting these values in Southeast Europe. The Republic of Croatia considers the EU enlargement policy to be one of its most successful policies. Croatia will remain determined to continue the enlargement process based on an individual evaluation of the achievements of candidate countries in meeting the criteria, as well as to take over and implement the EU acquis. The Republic of Croatia's firm position to open issues between countries of bilateral character such as border issues should not prevent candidate countries from joining the EU from the start of the process until the entry into force of the accession treaty. For the Republic of Croatia, it is of particular interest that all Southeast European countries continue with the reforms needed to achieve and apply EU and NATO standards. Based on its own experience, the Republic of Croatia considers that such a reform process has a stabilising but also a development dimension. In this respect, Croatia will continue to support all Southeast European countries in implementing reforms by sticking to the policy of strict and fair assessment of progress in achieving the European and Euro-Atlantic perspective of each individual candidate. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79539	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79540	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the club HNS and HSU we read the declaration carefully and we have certain objections to the text itself, but we also have to ask ourselves why this declaration at this time. In fact, countless times both the prime minister and the president and others have said that Croatia will not stop anyone on the road to the EU, but that unlike what happened to us, we will help our neighbours and other candidates to make the journey as high-quality and faster as possible. We really don't think anything further is being solved. Is it part of this package that some of the messages that have been understood as being understood from last week's debates of the Croatian Parliament and the Government, we don't know, but it seems really unnecessary. But let's get to the very declaration. What's the matter with us? It's about six sentences and five of our objections. Let's move on. Strengthened by the end of accession negotiations and by joining the EU on 1 July 2013. So how do we know that in 2013 we will be strengthened? So it's profuturo, and unless the author of the text thinks that the future government will be much more efficient, more efficient and that we will live significantly better. It was supposed to put an end to the accession negotiations. That's what we did, it made us stronger, it encouraged us, and so on. However, to call on some future date, absolutely not. Second. When it comes to the European values of colleagues and colleagues. There are three fundamental European values. It's a democracy, it's a rule of law and it's a protection of human rights. Three. One of the three European values here is not even mentioned, let alone elaborate. The author added several other elements, which we also do not seem to need or at least not to give some of them the importance that could be found in a number of conventions and documents and legal acts of the Council of Europe, say where they stand out and work on these European values, but I even call them pan-European values. Here, I'll just list some of them when it comes to politics. Policy efficiency, policy transparency, rule of law, respect for ethical principles, expertise, innovation and acceptance of change, long-term planning and sustainable development, proper financial business, respect for human rights, accountability, participation of citizens in the decision-making process, and insisting that political decisions must always be in the interests of citizens alone. Here, let's say 12 additional principles that we could possibly develop and mention when it comes to European values. Now, let's move on. The 5th sentence mentions EU and NATO standards and the Euro-Atlantic perspective. We wonder if we colleagues and colleagues have the right to impose or direct or indicate that the Euro-Atlantic perspective and its perspective is to be a member of a military alliance. I feel that some countries that want to get close to the EU do not want to be members of NATO and that is their right. Why, then, and we put it on the sidelines of these other EU-related criteria if that is our goal. There were still a few elements. Let's mention one more. Promoting those values in Southeast Europe. Fellow Members and colleagues, we must be honest that some of these values must still be promoted to the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the rule of law, when it comes to human rights, when it comes to the socio-market economy, all of these are elements where we still have to work very much on these criteria ourselves, and let alone promote them. What particularly bothers us, fortunately both Croatia and all Southeast European countries are members of the Council of Europe, therefore, these criteria of the Council of Europe, these brilliant 200 conventions are the basis for both for them and for us who show us the direction in which to go, but not to promote colleagues and colleagues, but to implement in practice. That's the goal. And they know and we know all these criteria. Croatia has been a full member of the Council of Europe for 15 years. What bothers me, though, is that in 15 years we never did one analysis that we signed in the 15 years of the convention, which we ratified and how far we went to implement these conventions. So let's start with ourselves, and then let's clearly spread our minds and let's say to others, namely, point others to these or those criteria. So I really have to say that our debate inside the club was very interesting. We were trying to find positive and negative elements within this declaration. In all, I must say that we have found no justification for promoting what we have long been declaring and listed in European documents, especially those of the Council of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79541	Thank you. We have an individual discussion. Dear Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79542	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So from this part of the debate that I managed to hear from my colleague, Doric, it could be concluded that we are bringing a declaration that there is no need in the political public to discuss it at all or to talk about it since it is European values. And I think that is precisely because it is European values, because Croatia has made major steps and great steps towards full membership in the European Union and ended negotiations, it has made a number of reforms of Croatian society that you do not want to recognise from the opposition, but that is less important. It is much more important that the European Commission recognises what Croatia did during the negotiation process and it is much more important that Croatian citizens know that this path to reform was difficult, it was not easy, but that it was the hardest way to negotiate so far when it comes to membership in the European Union. Far more difficult than it was for those 10 countries that became full members in 2004 or for Bulgaria and Romania who became a full member in 2007. So, far more difficult. Why, because we had negotiations that had introduced standards for the first time, Benchmarks, for the first time, special conditions were introduced for each chapter and for the opening and closing, to put it simply in the language, and these conditions also meant amending the legislation, but at the same time effective implementation of all these laws that had changed in the negotiation process. So effective implementation, which means that this law should really have been brought to life in practice and that only after it proved to be resuscitated in practice that only then could a particular chapter be closed. So Croatia has come a terrible path to reform. All those who do not want to admit it and unfortunately such are many on the side of opposition representatives, simply do not tell the truth, do not want to tell the truth and simply deceive the Croatian public when they say that Croatia did not make the necessary reforms. It's just a lie. And today you have in the report made by the European Commission on Croatia's progress, which is the latest annual report this way because Croatia has completed the negotiations, you have it clearly written and clearly written by the European Commission on how much progress Croatia has made in all areas, especially in some areas that have been said that we have done nothing here. So, Croatia clearly wishes to give this declaration to everyone, both in Croatia and outside Croatia, that its aim is and that its interest is to have an environment, a European environment, that all countries that have aspirations towards European or Euro-Atlantic integrations will be supported by the Republic of Croatia on these roads, that we will also support and help above all our experience because we can make a great contribution to our experience to our neighbours, a great deal. Our experience is precious, what our negotiators, the government, the ministries, all the people who participated in each area, and several thousand people participated in the negotiation process. Their experience is very valuable and can truly be of great help to all our neighbors. This declaration makes it clear that we are at our disposal to all those who want to go this way through European integration so that Croatia can really help them, with the more familiar problems we know, we know the obstacles that these countries have. But what we want to say clearly is that in no way will we make their path difficult but that we want to make it easier for them. That's what's clearly said in this declaration. But it should also be clear to them themselves that these steps can only be taken by themselves, that what is required of the countries that join the European Union to depend solely on themselves how quickly this progress will go, how effective it will be to reform these societies and raise standards to the level of European standards. So only their steps, on their goodwill, on their political environment within their countries, depend on what progress will be made towards the European Union. We had one good positive thing that made it easier for us not to fight or fight in the Croatian Parliament, which was a political consensus and the creation of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations because that fact made it easier. Why it made it easier, because we simply didn't argue here about the issues that are related to the negotiations but simply on the National Committee of Consensus, so everyone had to agree that they participated in the work of the National Committee, everyone had to agree. Each individual member of the National Committee had to give his consent to that position that the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to the European Commission. And today no one can speak in front of those other parties that something was not known, as it were not known, it was not known what was being sought, etc. It's just not true, it's cheating, it's cheating again. Because their representatives, representatives of all parliamentary parties were members of the National Committee and participated in the work of the National Committee. Without their consent, without their positive vote, no position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia could be addressed to the European Commission. Therefore, everything was known to everyone, the second thing that negotiations took place in the way that was practice in the European Union is simply not to publish what is being negotiated until the final moment of the conclusion of the negotiations, i.e. until the European Commission publishes the results of the process. So, what is important is to point out that Croatia will help its neighbours, but it will also, of course, expect those who take the European path or Euro-Atlantic integration to meet all their obligations and to meet those standards that are needed on that path. And in that sense, I think it is good that at this very moment, the Croatian Parliament has proposed this declaration which clearly shows what the interest of the Republic of Croatia is because we are working here on the interest of the Republic of Croatia because we want a peaceful environment, we want Bosnia and Herzegovina in which we have to worry about the foundation of the Constitution and constitutional provisions, not only the foundation of the Constitution but because it is part of the Croatian Corps and the same as the rest of the Croatian Corps that is elsewhere in the world. We simply want to take care of them and we want them to live in an orderly state in which they will have their rights the same as the other two people in this case in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we see nothing in that bad. Moreover, we think that the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina can be an excellent link as soon as Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. It's the same thing with other neighbors that we want a lot of success on that trip. We want it to be mastered as soon as possible because in this case Croatia will have a better position, it will have a better position for promotion and its products, to promote itself as EU Member States, as new members of the European Union. And from that position will be absolutely able to open up new areas of cooperation. Cross-border cooperation is something that is already normal today for all those who participate in various European Union programmes, and that is something that we will base our neighbours on because we really don't see that much space from infrastructure development. A few days ago, at the OSCE Assembly, at the parliamentary assembly in Dubrovnik, I spoke of a fact that is truly devastating for our part of Europe for a part of Southeast Europe as regards transport connections. It is amazing that today in the 21st century when communication, when traffic is related, is such that huge distances can be overcome in a very short time, that we, let's just say, 250km from one Macedonia, it may take us about ten hours if you want to take a car from Dubrovnik to Macedonia. In 250 kilometers, what you pass in France with TTV in an hour or you pass on the highway in an hour and a half. So it is simply unacceptable and of course that such countries that are simply unrelated, which are not compatible, which do not have a good infrastructure, of course they cannot develop, or that they are slowly developing and of course lagging behind. The fact is that at this meeting, we asked the OSCE, namely that those working on projects in our region, Southeastern Europe do everything possible and, above all, the European Parliament, that the Adriatic-Ionian initiative should indeed come to life and that this direction towards Greece opens up and that we simply have normal communication between these countries. So, from Montenegro via Kosovo, Macedonia, Albania to Greece. That is the direction that goes to Turkey that will continue to develop intensively. And indeed, if we don't get into that space in time, then we'll be in some way parts of Croatia, and those parts of Southeast Europe will be pretty neglected. And that's something we're going to work on intensively and we're going to talk about with all our neighbors.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79543	Thank you very much. We have one correction first. It's Honorable Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79544	Thank you very much. A esteemed colleague said that all political options were represented in the National Committee for the Monitoring of Accession Negotiations. That's not true. The Croatian party of rights did not have... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79545	Thank you. And we have two replicas. First is the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matusic, before you touched the question you touched. I have already raised the line and thank you for touching this issue of cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the neighbours where Croats live and then in this context, and also in the context that we have just heard the mention of European values I think it is very important to mention that insurance of minority, national rights is also a European value and reaching a level at the level achieved by the Republic of Croatia is from the national I would say interest and the Republic of Croatia when it comes to our neighbours. I must say that as a Croatian citizen living with a family in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am proud of these achievements of the Republic of Croatia towards national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. And also on this trail, so the question of such achievements is raised, let's say, in this case, I am talking about the position of the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia, and particularly driven by the recent events that took place when it comes to our representatives, i.e. the buildings in which our people, or their institutions, are actually representing the Croats. You know there were rocks and everything. On the other hand, the question is, I don't even know how to chop that Corps. Not to speak of Bosnia and Herzegovina where it is not actually allowed, unfortunately, to the sovereign people, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor equality in representation, so in power, participation in power and representation of Croats as such in that space. So that's where the questions are raised, I'd say they're also of European importance. So, because tomorrow Europe will receive a member who violates minority national rights to this level and in this context the question of Croatia is also opening up in what way Croatia will act I'm done here, I'm really done. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end.]] My position is absolutely known when it comes first to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I keep talking to Bosnia and Herzegovina the next day in the European Union, because I believe it would help Bosnia and Herzegovina in its stability at the end and achieve the rights of all and equality. But here, these issues are raised in which you think Croatia can participate and improve relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79547	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79548	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you're right, colleague Bagaric, when you say that the European path actually guarantees a better status for national minorities and our neighbouring countries because it is a fact. In fact, Croatia is known to have very high standards regarding the protection of the rights of national minorities, and that is something that we can be free to say here is proud of something that we point out in all the talks on, say, concretely and in the Council of Europe about which our colleague Doric spoke here, etc. But be assured that the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is being closely monitored. And this fact that you pointed out, that the Croatian people actually have no right to represent them is actually known. A few days ago there was a resolution in the Council of Europe that pointed out that it is clear that Croatian people do not recognise those who are trying to represent them in Bosnia and Herzegovina today because they are not their legitimate representatives. Because their legitimate representatives who received over 90% of the Croatian voters' votes are simply not the ones who made a pact with the SDP, not to speak any further. The situation is therefore well-known and quite certain that the European pathway of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia will guarantee better protection of the rights of national minorities and of the Croatian national minority in Serbia, but certainly the constitutive people of Croats, therefore, in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is absolutely something that we will insist on as members of the European Union, but the European Union itself will insist on doing so and will require that standards rise to the highest possible level in this area, the one that is appropriate and the one that is in Croatia today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79549	Thank you. And another replica, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matusic, I agree with most of your exposure when it comes to the European Union. I don't have much of an objection here. However, this declaration, which I have in my hands, is a political message. The political messages of this content have long been sent to our neighbours, long time ago, and we clearly told them that we would not stop you, we clearly told them that we would help them, although we have already helped them, a complete translation of the aquis and many other documents on the CD, as I recall, had already given it to the leaders in those countries. Thus, this has already been proven and shown in numerous examples in which we are politically considering and working. I repeat, it bothers both me and us, listen as a NATO member, the Republic of Croatia will particularly worry about promoting these values in Southeast Europe, one of these values is the social market economy, is the rule of law, etc. I don't think we're strong enough here to be the ones to promote those values. We know what these values are, we know who's promoting them, and it's up to us and our neighbors to implement them. We haven't done it yet. Furthermore, for the Republic of Croatia, it is of particular interest that all countries, all countries, watch over Southeast Europe for the reforms needed to achieve and apply European Union and NATO standards, and you and I were together in Belgrade on a Council of Europe committee when Serbs clearly said our perspective is not Euro-Atlantic, is not NATO. So what's the right to tell us that all countries will be clearly pushed into that same basket.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79551	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Doric, I think we know exactly what we're talking about, so I'm going to answer you very clearly. So it really is about values, of course, NATO is today except for the defence and powerful military force and, in any case, the system of values, which promotes the same values that the European Union promotes. These are military standards, but of course they fit into defence policy, in the European Union's security policy. They absolutely fit in and... Therefore, it is about a system of values which, of course, wants to be promoted, only Croatia's membership in the European Union means that it has made those reforms, because it could not have become the first NATO member if it had not made the reforms needed, in order to be an effective member of NATO, and could not have become, could not have completed negotiations with the European Union, which means, in particular, at the moment the negotiations were concluded, we are ready for the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is a need to ratify, therefore the ratification process must pass, it is indeed technical work, you and I know that it is indeed a technical work that must be done, and that is why the date is 1 July 2013, but at this point Croatia is absolutely meeting all the European Union standards. I dare say we stand even better and have better standards than some present country. And you know yourself that, here yesterday we had a very clear statement from Mr Dirk Lange in the European Parliament, in front of the European Commission, who said that Croatia will not have monitoring after entering, after full membership. What the Member States of the European Union have today, such as Bulgaria and Romania, they have monitoring, no matter what members they are, and cannot enter the Schengen area either. We're almost ready for Schengen space, or we'll be ready as soon as we get to the point where we can, so we can get into Schengen space.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79553	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79554	So it's about promoting value, and that's why there's no reason not to stand for NATO, because it's really about values, not in any case NATO membership, but values that NATO's alliance represents.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79555	Thank you very much. Please, stick to the time that, embarrassingly, I keep warning. On behalf of the promoter, distinguished Gordan Jandrokovic, foreign minister and European integration. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79556	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank everyone who participated in the debate, she wasn't long, but I think she was useful. By listening to Mr Doric, I got the impression that he accepts the essence of the declaration, that he has certain substantive remarks, I didn't quite understand why some of these formulations in the declaration bother him, especially that Mr Doric bothers the HNS club, if you spoke on behalf of the club or individually, on 1 July 2013, this is the goal that the European Commission and the Member States and Croatia both themselves, and I don't know what it is to say in the declaration, but we are merely showing the intention to do just as persistently as we have done so far and until 1.7.2013 we do everything we need to become a full member. So July 1st is the date we're after, and I'm sure we'll make it happen. It is not also clear to me when you speak of Croatia not being strong enough in the values that we are promoting this declaration to recommend them to others, it is one position which is a surprise, underestimating its own achievements, if the entire European Union is clapping on Croatia, today you have seen the text of the report, the final report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the text of the opinion on the request of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union. It is a final, positive opinion that the European Commission says Croatia is welcome, Croatia has been ready for full membership since 2003. And now you're asking whether we have the moral right to talk to others about European values. Well, of course we do. So we're proud of what we've done, we've come an extremely difficult path that fellow Matusic spoke of, and what should we today be ashamed of our achievements? No, of course not. But let's be clear, we've done our job, we want to help you do the same, we don't underestimate anyone but fully aware and confident that what we've done to others in Southeast Europe has not yet been done. In addition, we recommend only good, the system of protection of fundamental human minority rights, the rule of law, the market economy, everything we have done through the negotiation process, we hope that other countries will do as well. And when you say those messages were sent. Yes, they were sent, but not in this form, in the form of a declaration, and not at this moment, and the moment is the conclusion of the negotiations, a positive opinion on our candidacy, or membership, and a final report which also concludes that Croatia has made great progress in all areas. That's what it says, Mr. Doric, I'm asking you to read it. And for that reason, we are talking about European values today. As for the NATO alliance. We're talking about what we'd like. We would like all Southeast European countries to become full members of the European Union and NATO, you have apostrophe of Serbia. Is it not Croatia's interest for Serbia to become a NATO member as well? The area of stability would expand, and we here expressed only the willingness that if they decided to also join the organisation at some point that they would have Croatian support. And all other countries have this goal, all other countries of that area are heading towards both the EU and NATO alliances, all other countries want to apply those standards and criteria that Croatia has already applied and see this declaration as a strong political message from a country that has completed the negotiations, which will soon sign the accession agreement, we want you to be as successful as we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79557	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79558	We move to the Proposal for a Declaration on the promotion of European values in Southeast Europe. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Declaration on the promotion of European values in Southeast Europe. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a declaration. Always make sure your intention is confirmed or not. Chehok, a declaration. The result? A 77 vote unanimous declaration has been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79559	Now we're going to skip points that aren't ready for a variety of reasons for the debate and move on to the 14th point. It is - Final proposal of the Law on the deadlines for meeting monetary obligations, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 894. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79560	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In short, the provisions of this law regulate the deadlines for meeting the monetary obligations and the legal consequences of the delay by fulfilling the monetary obligation in order to strengthen financial discipline. This law is the first step, we see it as a first step towards regulating according to the EU acquis that is planned for economic reasons and also for certain other reasons to be done and implemented gradually. The cash obligations of which payment is governed by this law are those arising from contracts concluded by entrepreneurs in the performance of activities which constitute the subject of at least one of them or in connection with the performance of those activities, but from contracts concluded between entrepreneurs and persons of public law. The law proposes to limit payment deadlines in contracts between entrepreneurs as a rule for up to 60 days. It may be negotiated for a period of more than 60 days, but that extension must not result in any apparent imbalance in the rights and obligations of the parties to the damage of the credentials because otherwise such a provision will be considered invalid. In contracts between entrepreneurs and public rights persons in which a public-law person is a debtor of a monetary obligation to pay a monetary obligation up to 30 days, and it is possible to extend that period to 60 days, but this extension is subject to nullity if there is an obvious imbalance in the rights and obligations of the parties to the damage of the creditors. In contracts between entrepreneurs and public rights persons who are debtors in these contracts, entrepreneurs or institutions carrying out compulsory health insurance and health institutions whose founders of the Republic of Croatia or the unit of regional self-government are the same as for contracts with entrepreneurs, i.e. entrepreneurs. If no payment deadlines are agreed in contracts, or in these contracts, then the legal period shall be 30 days. The proposed law also provides for legal consequences for contracts which are not drawn up in accordance with this law and provides for the nullity of the provisions of the contract which excludes, restricts or condition the right of the creditor to tightened interest in case of late dues with the fulfilment of the monetary obligation as well as those which determine the date of receipt of the invoice or other appropriate payment request. In addition, the provisions governing the period of fulfilment of a longer period than those laid down in this law, provided that, in the light of the circumstances of the case, and in particular the commercial practices and the nature of the subject-matter of the obligation, such contractual provisions are contrary to the principle of awareness and honesty, there is an obvious imbalance in the rights and obligations of the credentials. It is very important to mention that the implementation of this law will be supervised by the financial police, with fines prescribed for the offence for the debtors from 10 thousand to millions of kuna and for the person responsible for the debtors from 1000 to 50 thousand kuna. The entry into force of the law of 1 January 2012 is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79561	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79562	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Associates. The most common word in economic life in Croatia is indifference. But she's not responding to insolvency, she's not responding to insolvency. Liquidity is greater than insolvency, which means that in most cases indifference is caused by those who do not deliberately pay. They're not insolvent, they're not deliberately paying. This proposal of the Law on the deadlines for compliance with the monetary obligations of the HDZ Club supports the fact that it believes it will contribute to additional arrangements and discipline of business entities in this area. Entrepreneurship itself involves the risk of own capital, but it is not for entrepreneurs in the right sense who, once they remain in debt to the creditors and to the state and to the employees because of the failure to pay their wages, the failure to pay their contributions, and have protected their capital. Many companies went bankrupt, and the business's own capital did not come into the risk zone. It's a very common case. This law will help to reduce such cases. It cannot be a protection of its own capital in the first place and cannot be at the expense of paying its obligations. Don't pay the work, don't pay the goods, don't pay the service, don't pay the wages it's not just a violation it's also a serious sin if we're going by the system of values that the government in the Republic of Croatia is supposed to rule. And we have such cases in practice where an entrepreneur who actually experiences entrepreneurship in the right sense encounters such difficulties that he cannot believe. I personally testified once when I tried to charge from a very prominent public contractor as director of a state company, he came to me from high politics and on the 10th floor of the skyscraper Vesnik, saying, "You're crazy if you think I'm going to pay you." They're not entrepreneurs. That's the kind of guy who needs to be in the neighborhood, and that's who he is. They buy yachts, buy cars, buy castles, one told me that he couldn't pay because he was in a bit of trouble because he bought a castle, so he liked the castle very much, so he needs to be restored, so all the money that belongs to the other worker, who belongs to the one who did the work or delivered the goods to him for editing and interior where he will spend his weekends. So there are those who absolutely don't want to pay, and there are those who pay late, there are those who are really in difficulty, trying to cope in difficult times, but with those are the easiest places for the believer to agree. Look, I can't right now, I'm gonna pay in a couple of days and the pay isn't in a month. But an honest businessman raises a loan and pays his commitment to the believer, he has no but is in charge of paying his obligation. But there are those who don't pay their commitments, and they also hold deposits in banks, but hold deposits and receive high rates. Even they're the main generators of high passive interest rates. There's a company that even 5 billion kunas hold deposits and is due to the creditors and is late to pay. This Law will help to reduce or even eliminate such phenomena. Payment deadlines of 60 days among entrepreneurs, is the largest possible time limit that can be considered a payment deadline, all above that is lending rather than a payment deadline. And many credit themselves to non-payments and make a good living on it. It's good for the state to be an example, and in this bill, it's the shortest time in the country, 30 days. It is good for the state to be an example of payment, an example of financial discipline, not only as a debtor, it must be an example as a believer, it must collect its claims within a short period of time, and 20 years history shows that it has not always been so and has not been very zealous in the collection of its claims. This Law will certainly help but without effective action and other state institutions and I mean regulatory institutions, it will not win full expectations. The Agency for the Protection of Competitions must not take a nap for situations that occur in the Croatian economy and sleep. Therefore, this law is good, the HDZ Club supports it, and we think this is what the state secretary said, the first step will basically take a few more steps to change and impose additional penalties in order to discipline this undisciplined area in the economic sector of the Republic of Croatia. But before us is a good law which I consider to be the most direct act that contributes the most indifference in the Republic of Croatia. It is not good for society that companies that do not collect their claim must be additionally in debt to pay VAT and those who have not paid the invoice do not have to pay VAT because they have a tax on the invoice and have not paid it. And it could very easily happen I believe that one day will come when VAT taxes will not be recognised to those who have not paid for invoices, that would solve this elegantly part of the problem. Even those who have not charged must be charged additionally to pay the profit tax, because they have earned profits, and in fact they have not charged invoices and as a good businessman, as a fair businessman they will pay their taxes to the state so they have to be charged additionally to pay not only VAT but also profit tax and again they are in favour of banks which have slightly different historical balances but will also come, I believe that the time will come that such tax balances will no longer be accepted but that they will not reserve funds and those credit ratings treated exclusively by banks as non-refundable automatically in the tax balance will be treated as tax expenditure. Until he sues an entrepreneur, his tax expenditure cannot be recognised, so there's no reason to admit it to the banks. I hope that this law will be effective from next year and that many entrepreneurs will abide by this Law, and high criminal penalties are also provided, and I don't think it will be worth it to anyone not to pay. The HDZ Club supports this law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79563	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79564	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We estimate that this Law is welcome but also well behind schedule. In fact, in the last two years, the government has twice rejected the SDP Club's initiative to regulate this area and we have tried to regulate it in a similar way as we are now doing with this current law. We estimate that this is not only the result of the crisis because the indifference and the irregularity of the payment of the obligation are one of the biggest problems of the Croatian economy in the longer term. Although the Law on Mandatory Relations regulates the area of payment, it does not actually apply in practice at all by following certain criminal provisions from that law. YES, this is not only a pain in the Croatian economy but also the fact that the European Union prescribes its payment deadlines with its directives, as well as the rate of late payment interest, especially by amending the 2010 late payment directive, a standard 30-day payment period applicable to both the state and the private sector, and only in exceptional circumstances is allowed to make payments up to 60 days. The delay in payment in the European Union is a common phenomenon, but its administration is working in time and intensively to prevent them, so that for years European Union members have been applying the directive on preventing payment delays in commercial transactions, so that we, too, calling on that directive, wanted to be kind of tightened through the Croatian economy. So here, in a similar way as the EU members do, we prescribe two payment periods. This is a 30-day period as a probation or extended to 60 days. However, here in Article 2(2), point 2. It is said that an exceptional period can be agreed and a longer deadline for meeting the monetary obligations. A colleague, Maric, used to say here that these are no longer payment deadlines, that it is crediting. Let's say 90 days are short-term loans, and if we're already going to this kind of regulation, say what are the exceptional conditions when the payment deadline can be longer than 60 days. So, I would just like to warn you that we had to regulate this area a long time ago, but then I would also like to call on the government's opinion that she sent us at the end of 2010, when she just said that she didn't need to regulate it. And when we look at how indifference was moving in Croatia, then we see that it took a worrying proportion right between 2009 and 2011, when we found some 20 billion kunas in 2009, so it climbed to 36 and now slightly less than 40 billion kuna. So this is a serious problem and this law will not solve the existing situation. So, it will only apply from 1.1.2012, and we have, with one proposal now on the agenda, tried to see how to resolve both existing debts or to force administrations and supervisory authorities to be more responsible for payment. So, we proposed to write the commitments on a certain date, so to make one inventory and make a plan to pay the old commitments, because if we're going to make these 40 billion or slightly less than 40 billion kunas of liabilities that have been blocked up like this to hang in the air, it's somewhere some say more than 50 or 60% of total transaction money in the Platno Transport Republic. So it's a good thing he's trying to solve the problem this way. Some countries have also combined payment and enforcement and bankruptcy deadlines into one financial law or the Financial Business Act where, in a accelerated manner, those who are messy in payments are sanctioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79565	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. No one checked in. Therefore, I am concluding the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79566	We move on to the final draft of the law on deadlines and the fulfilment of monetary obligations. It was an emergency procedure. So, P.Z. No. 894. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on the deadlines for meeting the monetary obligations. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill, the final draft of the law. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79567	We're going to do one more point, and that's point 19. - Proposal for a decision on temporary financing of business, function and programme of state bodies and other budgetary beneficiaries of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2012 Proposal for a decision to give consent to temporary functional plans for the first quarter of 2012: (a) Croatian waters (a) Croatian roads (a) State agencies for the provision of savings deposits and resolution of banks (a) Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund (a) The Agency for State Property Management is the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Maric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79568	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's another point for today's debate. A decision on temporary financing which is actually I would say a really technical document. In view of the conduct of parliamentary elections, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Assembly in accordance with Article 42. The Budget Act this decision concerning temporary financing in the first quarter of 2012 in which new programmes of budgetary users cannot be financed, but of course the duty and necessity to ensure the resources necessary for the performance of the tasks and functions of the budgetary users of the state budget, so above all for salaries, pensions, unemployment benefits, maternity benefits, child benefits, social benefits and rights of defenders and other rights. Otherwise, the same Budget Act provides for the maximum amount of this temporary financing for the first quarter. According to the 42nd article, temporary financing is carried out in a relatively one-quarter of the total revenue achieved in the previous year. According to that article, the total level of expenditure or planned expenditure in the first quarter is €27.3 billion. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79569	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. No one checked in. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. This concludes today's session. We continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with point 4, final draft law amending and supplementing the Medical Products Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 885. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-12-0.u79570	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on temporary financing of business, functions and programmes of state bodies and other programme budget beneficiaries of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2012. Proposal for a decision on granting consent to temporary functional plans for the first quarter of 2012: (a) Croatian Waters (a) Croatian Roads (a) State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation Fund (a) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund (a) State Property Management Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the temporary financing of transactions, functions and programmes of state bodies and other programme budget beneficiaries of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2012. Let's please get involved and vote on temporary funding. The proposal for a decision on temporary financing was adopted by a majority of 133 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against. Secondly, I am voting in favour of giving consent to temporary functional plans for the first quarter of 2012 to Croatian waters. Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal to give consent. The decision to give consent was adopted by the majority of 132 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the early financial plan for the first quarter of 2012 to the Croatian roads. Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal. The motion for a decision was accepted by the majority of 123 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the early financial plan for the first quarter of 2012 to the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. Please, let's get involved and vote. The decision was adopted by a majority of 126 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the early financial plan for the first quarter of 2012 to the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Please, let's get involved and vote. Please, something happened with electronics. Please raise your hands. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Thank you. Against? Restraint? This decision was adopted unanimously with 137 votes. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the early financial plan for the first quarter of 2012 of the Agency for the Management of State Property. Who's for this decision please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? It was adopted unanimously with 137 votes. The Legislative Committee proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out a revision of the text of the decision for the first quarter of 2012 before their publication in "The National Journal". So I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? Thank you. This authorisation was adopted unanimously by the Professional Service with 137 votes, as proposed by the Legislative Committee. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the work of this 24th session with the agenda item announced, and it reads - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 885. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session, and the amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain? Yeah. Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Here you go.
