ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79781	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me present to you the Final Proposal for a Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which the government adopted at its session on 6 October this year. I would like to remind you that the draft law in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament supported 113 MPs with 3 abstentions, and that the comments, proposals and opinions came out of the debate, you sent them to the applicant, or to the Government to prepare the final bill. I must say that, to the greatest extent possible, the proposals are respected and that they are included in the final draft of the law. I would like to point out once again that this law confirms my determination by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to protect the rights and interests of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, to promote their ties with their homeland, and to guarantee their particular care and protection. A large number of MPs who supported the law in the first reading say it is a well-prepared text and a necessary legislative proposal. It should also be noted that the draft law preceded the creation and adoption of a strategy on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which respects the proposals and opinions of a wide range of representatives, including Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and which provide for the obligation to pass a special law. This legislative proposal shall for the first time, in accordance with the relevant constitutional provisions, be systematically and fully regulated by the parent country's relationship with Croats abroad. This respects all the specificities and different needs of Croatian communities outside Croatia, I mean Croatians in Bosnia and Herzegovina, members of Croatian minorities in European countries, as well as Croats emigrated to the overseas and European countries. It further strengthens the protection of their rights and interests, promotes the development of relations through cultural, educational, scientific, economic, sports and other cooperation. The law prescribes measures and activities on the return of Croatian emigrants and the immigration of their descendants, and underlines the integration of all Croats in the achievement of Croatian cultural community with the aim of preserving and strengthening Croatian identity. Let me below list some of the envisaged legislative proposals that will contribute to the achievement of those objectives. The introduction of Croatian status without Croatian citizenship creates an additional symbolic link between Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and their homeland. Status can be obtained by Croats outside the Republic of Croatia without Croatian citizenship, spouses who do not have Croatian origin, their children, and friends of Croatian people and the Republic of Croatia who cherish Croatian identity and promote Croatian cultural unity. The same intention is also proposed to make a decision on the declaration of the day of Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the establishment of a documentary centre and museums, as well as the introduction of practice of granting special recognitions to the persons, associations and institutions. This would further and adequately highlight the importance that Croatia attaches to relations with Croats outside the country. Special attention in the law is given to fostering economic cooperation through the integration of Croatian businessmen outside Croatia with shareholders in the Republic of Croatia, the promotion of investment in the Republic of Croatia, especially in production and tourism, as well as the promotion of the implementation of development projects in other areas of economic interest. Also with the intention to preserve and promote Croatian identity, the law encourages the establishment of lecturers of Croatian language and literature in foreign higher universities, as well as the establishment of a Croatian language department at universities abroad in the environments where Croats live. The specificity among the proposed proposals is certainly a Croatian card which would allow Croatia's non-Croatians, based on commercially expressed interests, more favourable access to certain services, more favourable terms of travel, and organised stay in Croatia as well as participation in cultural events. As co-ordination bodies for the implementation of all these activities, and the main holders of relations and cooperation are provided for the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The establishment of a central state office will determine the central authority responsible for the area of relations between Croats... , between Croatian Croats outside, as well as the coordination and supervision of all activities between the competent ministries and other co-workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia will, as an advisory body, provide assistance to the Croatian Government in the creation and implementation of policies, activities and programmes in relation to Croats outside Croatia. Council members will be proposed from the ranks of the most significant and numerous associations, organisations, institutions and other forms of organisation. Finally, in order to facilitate the process of integration into the Croatian society of Croatian emigrants and their descendants who return and move to Croatia, the law also provides for the establishment of a special welcome office, and I would like to highlight this in the composition of the central state office, within which all the necessary information and assistance will be obtained in solving legal and other issues. And finally, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of parliament, by leading to constitutional and moral obligations towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Government decided on a proposal, and I believe that Parliament and the proposal will adopt and adopt a single law that systematically regulates and supports further development of the relations between the country of origin and Croats outside it. The strategy and the Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia reflect responsible government policies in protecting and promoting one of the vital national interests. I am deeply convinced that already after today's adoption of the strategy, the law will further strengthen the framework that will guarantee a lasting and systematic development of links between the Homeland and all Croats living outside it. For all this, I propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79782	Thank you, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. Does the committee reporter want to take it? Yes, it is. On behalf of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, the chairman of the Committee Mr. Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79783	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia discussed this proposal as a home working body at its 40th session. The proposer presented the proposal for a Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside Croatia as a law of national interest in whose preparation worked systematically within the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia over the last two years. He said that the bill that passed the parliamentary procedure in the first reading received almost undivided support from all MPs in the Croatian Parliament and that he believes that the law will also be adopted in the final form by consensus. The law is based on Article 10. The Croatian Constitution guaranteeing the care of the Republic of Croatia for each individual and part of the Croatian people living outside the Republic of Croatia with a focus on the position of Croats as sovereign people in BiH and the position of the Croatian national minority in European countries. The law is adopted in the context of the acceptance and recognition of all international documents guaranteeing fundamental human rights resulting from the right to cultural diversity and the right of minority national communities to preserve cultural and linguistic diversity as well as the obligation of the state to respect the principles and standards of international law when it comes to promoting and protecting the rights of members of national minorities. Accordingly, the law stresses that Croatia's natural rights and will result from the Croatian people's democratic elections and was defended in the Homeland War by a common sacrifice of Croats and other Croatian citizens living in the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The law comes from the point of view that all Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, those in the Republic of Croatia, Croats in BiH, Croats are members of Croatian national minorities in 12 European states and Croats in the diaspora in the European overseas states with Croats in the Republic of Croatia are members of one and indivisible Croatian people and as such have the same national identity and belong to a unique cultural space. The final draft of the law is the flow of the government policy of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia's obligation to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in various fields of action, diplomatic, economic, cultural, social, educational, information, organisational and inema. The final draft of the law is in line with other strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia which rest on faith in the great possibilities of both Croatian citizens in the Republic of Croatia and Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the final proposal of the Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia should be seen in light of the economic and social development of Croatian society, knowledge society, social justice, global movements and positions that the Republic of Croatia will have when it becomes a full member of the EU. The final proposal for this law defines in its general section the status of Croatian communities and individuals by introducing the status of Croats without citizenship as well as by introducing the Day of Croats outside Croatia. In part of the law, holders of relations and cooperation as an operational and co-ordinated body responsible for activities towards Croats outside Croatia are established the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Croatians outside Croatia will also be organised, an advisory body that will make up the prominent individuals representatives of the associations and associations of Croats outside Croatia. In Chapter – Protection of the rights and interests of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and strengthening their communities address status issues, information as well as importance for the preservation of Croatian language, culture and identity of Croats outside Croatia. The final proposal of the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is being processed i.e. defines cultural, educational, economic, health, social, sports cooperation with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as well as the return of Croatian emigrants and their descendants including care for particularly endangered groups of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The debate has shown satisfaction with the adoption of this law and it is of vital interest to assess the even and lasting maintenance of cooperation and cooperation with parts of the Croatian people outside Croatia. It also stressed the importance that all Croatian communities should be approached in accordance with the provisions of this bill, taking into account its needs and respecting its specificities. The law should also be observed in the context of the development of Croatian society and its future from a demographic point of view i.e. Ensuring human potential from Croatian emigration, as well as interest in the sustainable return and remnant of Croats to BiH in a way that the Republic of Croatia will co-finance economic activities there. The great potential of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is assessed as being of particular importance both for the social and economic development of the Republic of Croatia. This law in this context is recognised as the basis for strengthening existing, achieving new protection mechanisms for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. It was also assessed for its very important co-operation with Croatian institutions outside the Republic of Croatia, and through them and with the governments of their host countries. It has been said that the Republic of Croatia is creating an effective framework to support different forms of organisation of Croats outside Croatia, with the aim of promoting the preservation of Croatian language and culture. Accordingly, additional possibilities are being made for the connection with members of the second and third generations of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. The creation of a positive atmosphere for the return of Croatian emigrants is the primary objective of this law as well as the preservation of their Croatian identity regardless of generationality, time and reason for their departure from the country. Under the provisions of this law, all institutions of the Republic of Croatia are obliged to install cooperation with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in the field of their activities. The ultimate objective of the law in this segment is to ensure that Croats need to be considered outside the Republic of Croatia as well as to connect the institutions of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside Croatia in a way that they are at the service of our people in the world. The organisation of the Welcome Office within the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and the establishment of similar instruments at County level aims to quote all returnees: "I can get the necessary information and help to address legal and other issues, including the help of mentors, advisers in the first steps of integration into Croatian society". In the follow-up to the debate, representatives focused on the importance of mutual informing Croats in the world about the Republic of Croatia and vice versa. In this context, the media connection between each other is assessed as a prerequisite for the preservation of Croatian identity, economic, cultural, scientific and other cooperation. The presence of HRT representatives who participated in the debate has therefore been welcomed, explaining the possibility of HRT as a public service which is required to produce and transfer an open programme to Croats worldwide in accordance with its own law and the proposal for this law. In this context, the new technology of information transfer was said in the debate of the future in linking the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia but also an opportunity to promote the Republic of Croatia worldwide. Therefore, representatives as well as representatives of the HRT welcomed the provision of the Law by which informing Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and promoting the Republic of Croatia in the world of public interest, and the HRT will publish and produce a multimedia programme with multilingual television and radio content, which will be regulated by the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Government. Under this provision, the head of the HRT administration said his house would immediately approach the preparation of all the necessary technical and programme actions to ensure the broadcasting of an open multimedia, multilingual programme intended for Croats in the world with negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate highlighted the problem of informing Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who do not have their own channel in the Croatian language within the TV service there and are also related to HRT. It is also a great public interest for all events as well as the general position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is also proof of the ratings of the Croatian chronicle of Bosnia and Herzegovina broadcast on Saturday mornings and is opposed to a very unfavourable broadcast term of one of the most watched shows on HRT. After the discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79784	Thank you. And now we're crossing, I'm opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79785	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the HDZ Club before my presentation, I would like to express my satisfaction here and welcome Mr. Minister here, and in his name and through him the entire Government of the Republic of Croatia that made a promise, which is a promise to the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which is that today we have this law in the debate that we are discussing today. I will, in a certain way, go over this bill slowly in a way that I will comment on certain articles because in the last debate we have actually spoken in a long and wide way about the need to adopt this law and now I will concentrate more on the very provisions of the law. If we look at the law then we will see that in Article 2 Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are defined in three groups, so Croats in BIH as sovereign people, Croatian national minorities in the European countries and Croatian emigrants. The HDZ Club supports such species, this article, among other things, because the term that has often been used quite clumsyly and incorrectly diaspora, and then, in fact, under this diaspora, all Croats outside Croatia were often abused and not appropriate. Article 4 states that the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are equal and part of one and the indivisible Croatian people, that is exactly the provision on which this Law is based, therefore the obligation arising from it to all parts of the Croatian people outside Croatia. The Republic of Croatia advocates recognising and improving the position of the Croatian minority in the countries in which they live, we must be aware of the position of the national minority, in this case I am primarily referring to the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Serbia and I welcome the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and here the present minister to achieve in the right sense everything that a national minority needs and has and is defined by this bill and this is very important. Also, Article 6 states that the Republic of Croatia is the one that advocates the full achievement of the equality and constitutionality of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is well known, and the problems of Croats in the BIH are therefore very important, this provision that in a certain way recognises the importance of their status and is in a certain way a statement of the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina to become a full and equal constituent people in the full sense of that word, which, unfortunately, has not been so far. Article 7 states that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia exercise all the rights and obligations laid down by specific laws in the field of education and higher education, employment, scholarships, health insurance and others. The competent ministers shall adopt a Regulation on the exercise of the right referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. And so far, ladies and gentlemen, the Republic of Croatia has been open to Croats outside of Croatia, their needs, however, it is now in a certain way systematically set up here and it is clear from this that the competent ministers will resolve this cooperation in a way that it will not only be legitimate but effective. Article 10 regulates the declaration of the day of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the HDZ Club supports that provision because it is ultimately a provision that many other laws have, states that have great emigrants such as Croats, and this has proved to be a symbolic link between diaspora and domicill state. In the segment of relations and cooperation holders, therefore, Articles 12, 13 and other regulated the issue of the central state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the HDZ Club supports this decision and welcomes the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to in one systematic way arrange that operational part of the cooperation, therefore, according to Croats outside Croatia, in a way that all activities related to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia will be put into one frame and will be coordinated from one place and that place will be an integral part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because the first person in the central office, namely the man who runs the office, will have the status of State Secretary. In some countries, the secretary of state has the status of minister without portfolio in charge of parts of the people outside the country. We also welcome the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to organise the advice of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as an advisory body, in fact it is one institute to which, to a greater extent, it will be included in the decision-making and planning of all of these needs that Croats outside Croatia have when it comes to the general diaspora and other parts of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia, and it is imagined that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is precisely on a proposal from the institutions of Croats outside Croatia to accept this body which some say is numerous, we say, because the answer is that many Croats are outside of Croatia, therefore, that I am not talking about Croats in BiH or the Croatian national minority, but only that we have in mind the Croatian diaspor, which we claim to be close to 3 million in emigration. Therefore, this one body, which will meet only once a year in Croatia at the invitation of the government of the Republic of Croatia, will discuss the problem of Croats outside Croatia. They will be able to meet as much as they need to, but actually at the level of virtual communication, but it is very important that at the invitation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia these people can come one time to Croatia, Zagreb, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and discuss the problems they have. In part of the law protection of the rights of interest of Croats outside Croatia and strengthening their communities we therefore welcome articles that regulate the preservation of Croatian language, culture and identity. And I would now refer to the importance of Article 34, which is also supported by the HDZ Club, which refers to information and integration. In that case, all kinds of media, all kinds of technologies that are available to people today to be connected, are welcome. However, there is one instrument that we very much hope for and believe in, which is the Croatian Radio Television, which is a public service, and also a national service, and in any case already, according to the Law on HRT, HRT produces a programme for Croats outside Croatia. We believe that the HRT will comply with the provisions of Article 34(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Realising information from Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in a way that will create an international multilingual television programme. And in this case, it will be intended not only for Croats outside Croatia but also for their descendants who unfortunately do not speak Croatian very often, but these people in the languages of the countries where they live, or in the languages of their new mother tongues, which they speak, will hear about Croatia and be in contact with Croatia. On the other hand, you can imagine what power in this case such a programme could develop when it comes to economic, cultural and any other collaboration of Croatia with Croats outside Croatia but also with the whole world. It is not good that the picture of Croatia creates some other televisions or not just those, but that it also does HRT in a way that will present Croatia to the world in the way that RAI represents Italy in which some other televisions represent their countries. When it comes to articles that regulate admission to Croatian citizenship, then the status of Croats without citizenship, we strongly support these provisions, among other things because there are Croats in the world who, for legal reasons, cannot have Croatian citizenship. If you live in Germany and have German citizenship you simply have no right to have another other citizenship in this case Croatian. Thus, when the person comes to the Republic of Croatia from Germany with German citizenship in this context, he is a pram of the current laws he is a foreigner in the Republic of Germany. Therefore, we address this issue in a way that we give this person the status of Croats without citizenship and that person as well as any other Croat has his rights as everyone else. Here Mr. Minister spoke clearly about the Croatian card about this status of Croats without citizenship and what he bears and we are happy for these decisions and do not accept criticism from some who say that we now do not know those rights to some others who may not deserve it, thinking first of all under this syntax of friends of the Croatian people. And everywhere and even in Croatia and the Law on Croatian Citizenship provides for the possibility of giving citizenship to the person who works in the interests of your people, your country. Imagine all those people who participated with our people around the world or in a certain way related to both the creation of the Republic of Croatia and the promotion of Croatia, these people simply when they come to Croatia now with this Croatian card which they will be able to obtain in a certain legal procedure will not be treated to foreigners in Croatia but indeed as welcome friends. And that is one big step forward in terms of promotion of Croatia. This should, of course, be seen in the context of Croatia as members of the EU tomorrow, where Croatia will become a country magnet for all, not only for Croats, but for all those who want to join the EU via Croatia. And in this context, why not be particularly interesting and particularly attractive for Croatians from the world. Anyway, the time has come for our people to go to the world of time, and we believe that these people can return to Croatia. In particular, in the name of the HDZ club, we are offended by the grades of some who unfortunately inherit the ideology of those for whom our people went into the world, and now they see that part of our people as still unfortunately part of some kind of hostile emigration. This time has passed for us, for us unacceptablely, for us every man of ours, wherever he lives, is equally important and welcome. We also welcome those articles that regulate the question of cultural, educational, scientific, scientific and research cooperation, the establishment of the so-called "Court". The Croatian Museum of Immigrantism in a certain way to build a picture of ourselves in Croatia. But we also welcome all the efforts of our institutions that work to raise awareness of the so-called. Croatian heritage in the countries they came to. Yesterday I was at a lecture organised by the American Embassy, I think it's called "The Days of Chicago" or something, where one of our women was talking about the contribution of Croats to Chicago. It was touching to hear the contribution of the Croats to Chicago. Therefore, if we did an analysis and looked at what our man's contribution is anywhere in the world, starting with the nearest neighbouring countries, the whole of Western Europe and the overseas countries, then we might actually be proud of what we have contributed and what we have done for those countries where our people are now living and what our new countries are. I particularly single out here on behalf of the HDZ Club and welcome the decisions relating to economic co-operation, and then here it is based on a way that the Republic of Croatia will achieve mechanisms and allow our people from the world to invest more easily in the Republic of Croatia, to connect, to invest more in places than specific state concerns, and especially those that define cross-border cooperation and cooperation with Croats in BiH or with a national minority in other European countries. We are very supportive here and we are happy about the provisions that say that, in accordance with the applicable regulations, and in cooperation with the competent authorities, associations and economic operators of the Croats in BiH, they will provide funding for programmes, microcredits, family economy and crafts, as well as the Guarantee Fund for the insurance of small and medium-sized enterprises for the development projects of Croats in BiH. So it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, in the interest of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also believe tomorrow as members of the European Union. In part of the law that discusses encouraging the return of Croatian emigrants and their descendants to the Republic of Croatia and the support of particularly endangered groups of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, it is important to point out, therefore, articles that define support for particularly vulnerable groups. This means that if the Republic of Croatia has information and knows about parts of the people living in particularly difficult situations and situations such as the Irish, for example, care about the poor Irish, for example, no matter where they are. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia in its own way to the extent that it can take responsibility and will be available to these people. We also welcome the articles that speak of attracting students and students, and in this context Article 61 speaks for the purpose of better getting to know the Republic of Croatia... The arrival of youth, Croatian origin in the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of Croatian language summer and winter schools, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is also already a good example of so - called. Croatian world games held by the Croatian World Congress. Therefore, such manifestations are similar to that of the Republic of Croatia. Given that I have spent my time I would have concluded, so on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would have once again thanked here the present minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Jandrokovic who encouraged, pushed and brought this Law to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for standing entirely behind this bill of law and the position it has towards Croats outside of Croatia, and it is up to us to pray for those who do not understand and who do not experience Croats outside of Croatia that they really see through. But also, also here from this place, I'm giving the same kind of request to those who say they're with us. And even in the media like "The Voice of Concilla" they give interviews about how this is some kind of law suspicious or I don't know what kind of law it is. And these same people have spent time in this Parliament and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia long enough to have been able to systematically access this issue and have not done so. Let's not be petty, let's not be to that level of misery that all that's good is that it's a thorn in our eye and that bothers us. In fact, let us gather as this Law gathered all Croats outside Croatia with Croatia and support this bill and for the sake of the entire Croatian people and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79786	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Ivo Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79787	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, although some are unwitting, and unfortunately there were also well-intentioned with infidelity to view this Law today, we still have it as the final draft law in the parliamentary procedure. We'll discuss it today. I am convinced that today's vote will be unanimous and accepted. The obligation of the Republic of Croatia was established by the Constitution and its Article 10th was well translated into this Act, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Namely, this law regulates the protection of the rights and interests of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and strengthens their community with the aim of preserving Croatian language, culture and identity, and informing and connecting them. The Government of the Republic of Croatia held 5th session at its meeting. May 2011 reached a conclusion that adopted the Strategy on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which provides for the obligation to adopt a special law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as the obligation to adapt the structure of the state administration and the Croatian queen of emigrants. So far, there has been no unique solution that regulated these relations but has been partially resolved by individual institutions and ministries, which has proved to be more inefficient and inefficient. The existing institutional solutions failed to respond to their tasks, failed to follow them in a quality way, and sometimes even recognise the needs and address the problems imposed as a priority in Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and there was no special body that co-ordinated the work of all state institutions that care about the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. This final bill permanently regulates the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, respecting all the specificities and different needs of each Croatian community outside the Republic of Croatia. What is important to emphasise is that this Law establishes the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia as the central body of the state administration responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The office will have a wide range of its work and, most importantly, it will not overlap with any institution or ministry. This final draft law provides for the establishment of a Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia as an advisory body of the Croatian Government in the creation and implementation of policies in relation to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The members of the council are representatives of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and members in position. The council member becomes a fixed mechanism, and determines according to the number of Croats, the importance of Croats in the countries that live. With this final proposal, the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia are divided into three groups. The first group is members of the sovereign and constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Other members of the Croatian minority in European countries. And the third emigrants in the overseas and European states and their descendants. I will be happy to stick to the first group of Croats, so in Bosnia and Herzegovina as a constituent and sovereign people. Some statistics suggest that every fourth resident of the Republic of Croatia originating in Bosnia and Herzegovina should therefore be more interested in Croatians for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, it's not like that very often. Who are the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who were they and what are they now? Not wanting to go back to the time of the company Kokoromanic but wanting to highlight the shared tumultuous past, emphasize that Croatian pride and Fr. Ivan Franjo Jukić and Fr. Matija Divkovic such as Silvije Strahimir Kranjčević and Antun Branko Šimić. Croatian pride is also the Nobel laureates Ivo Andric and Vladimir Prelog. We Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina are particularly proud to have given the war secretary of defence to the late Gojko Šushko. We are proud of our culture and tradition in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but what are Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina today? Paper-constitutive, but essentially dissipated people. We are often compared to the European Kurds. The Dayton Peace Agreement, one of the annexes and the constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has stopped the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is the only thing that is valid in the agreement, and what the agreement has managed to implement. The Constitution. Today, many, including those who imposed it on us as such, call it a crazy shirt, not only for Bosnia and Herzegovina and not only for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but for all the peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am therefore particularly pleased with the final proposal of this law, as it will be one of the mechanisms for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to find a solution for an enigma called Bosnia and Herzegovina. There can be wind in the back of Croats fighting for their equality, constitutionality and sovereignty in their country. In the end, the Republic of Croatia is a co-signator of the Dayton Peace Agreement and as such has the obligation and the right to care for it, its implementation, but unfortunately it is very often going in the wrong direction. We do not want anything that the other two peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have and expect the assistance of the Republic of Croatia as tomorrow's members of the European Union, so that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina have constitutional equality and that Bosnia and Herzegovina is finally on their way to Euro-Atlantic integration. So we expect political support from the Republic of Croatia. In my first reading, I had a problem with Article 36 of this Law, and I am glad that the motioner accepted and deleted from the previous article 36 an unnecessary part of the text that spoke about the credible documentation of the statement of belonging to the Croatian people. What is important for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, especially for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, are parts of this final bill that say they will take care not only to preserve the cultural and historical identity of Croats, but also to be able to channel significant financial resources towards both Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and others for the development of the economy. The proposed solutions provide for the financing of a microcredit scheme for family economies, as well as a guarantee fund for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship lending, for development projects. Of course, in cooperation with associations and economic operators in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think above all. So far, the assistance that has been going towards the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina through the implementation of projects in the fields of culture, education, health and science, although transparent and small, was also exposed to criticism. What meant the stay and survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina's employment, the opening of new jobs has so far been put on the other hand. With this law, many things will change for the better, and for the mutual benefit of Croatian businessmen and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as businessmen from the Republic of Croatia. The Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina will surely profit from the recent entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, as the Republic of Croatia will have an obligation to encourage cross-border co-operation with its own projects, and in particular to help run for European Union funds, there are great opportunities for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This final bill confirms the determination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in resolving the status of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as the association of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia with Croats in the Republic of Croatia, and stipulates that they are part of an indivisible Croatian people. I therefore support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79788	Thank you. It is Mr Dragan Vukic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79789	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today in the Parliament we are discussing the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. For the first time in 20 years of Croatian independence, the Republic of Croatia regulates relations with its people living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia in a legal, democratic, one word European way, as most European countries that have this problem have done. Why is this law important? Because half of the Croatian people live outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia, and all of us are the home state of the Republic of Croatia. This law has been discussed on the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, it is supported on this committee and on us from this committee, especially for those of us who come from the 11th constituency, it is very important that this law be passed by the votes of all in this assembly and I ask my colleagues and colleagues to support us in that. The Republic of Croatia has arranged relations with minorities in the Republic of Croatia, and that's good. We often listen to talk about how minority bridges are connecting, and that's just as good. And today we have a chance to expand these bridges by adopting this law. That is why this law is a sort of bridge with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as well as a bridge with the countries in which they live. Because of these bridges and cooperation with their citizens, I said we care about the law to support both left and right, because it is important that Croatians in the world receive a message that the entire Croatian Parliament and all institutions of the Croatian state take care of them and think of them. Unfortunately, I see that the left side of the assembly is empty and I am sorry about that, and what only says that something important is happening here today, because whenever there have been important things happening in this assembly for the last 20 years for the Croatian people that part of the assembly has been empty. So, gentlemen of the opposition, I know you're watching this transmission, I invite you to enter the assembly, support this law, it's highly nationally interesting, and it's above all our interparty bickerings. The eyes of the Croatian people in the world today are against this assembly, because the Croats of the world have been waiting for 20 years. This law regulates relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people in the world, i.e. cultural, economic, scientific cooperation with our countrymen and thus the countries in which they live. Returns and emigration of Croats to their homeland are being encouraged, this law does not require new funds in the Republic of Croatia's budget. I will support the passing of this law, and he will be adopted thank God. So be it. This was earned by Croats whose unfortunately history and historical troubles and often historical injustices did not go hand in hand for them to live in the state of Croatia. I will use this little remaining time to say the following: I have talked about Croats in BiH 10 times in this term, I wish it was an opportunity more often. A lot is said in the world today about BiH, and often in the Republic of Croatia about BiH and Croats in BiH. The Republic of Croatia hears very often we support BiH country of three constituent nations, etc., etc. That's okay, but let's think about whether we should change both rhetoric and behavior. I think we should, and I'll try to explain it. Bosnia and Herzegovina has received a minus in Brussels on its European path these days. Did the minus get Croats in BiH? No, they're not. Why didn't they? Because they don't participate in power through their legitimate representatives. Who is the most concerned in BiH over the Brussels minus? The Croatian people in BiH. Why? Because it truly wants BiH in the EU and sees its opportunity for itself and its survival, as well as its survival and BiH. I'm not sure that the other two political elites share concerns to the same extent. Who else got a minus in Brussels? The international community. Because she's been very present for the last 15, 20 years in BiH. Did the Republic of Croatia get a minus from Brussels for BiH? It's not. Why not? Because she is not present in BiH to the extent that the Croats expect. It is high time for Croats in BiH to assist the Republic of Croatia to return to the match to protect the rights of the Croatian people in BiH, as well as to protect the overall Croatian national and state interests. How do you do that? BiH support, absolutely yes. But BiH is a picturesquely said house that has its foundations, and the world says it is not the most stable house. What makes the foundations of that house? Three peoples and one of those three people are also Croatian people. So when BiH wants to help, we always start from the ground up, and that is the best way to help it. That's why all of us who deal with politics stand behind the demands of our people in BiH and we won't make a mistake. That is why I am sorry that the opposition is not here today and does not understand the problems of the Croats in BiH. What does the Croatian people in BiH want? It is very simple to want a new BiH Constitution. My predecessor said the Dayton Agreement was a crazy shirt. That's what those who have been implementing this Dayton Agreement have said for years. In particular, the former High Representative for BiH, Mr. Petic, said. The new constitution does not want only the Croatian people, and others in BiH want it. Of course, they approach him differently. The new constitution will also bring a new administrative structure to BiH. He will also pass a new electoral law and a lot more will be passed. We will bring new European ruins to BiH. All this could happen requires a new International Conference in BiH. Let's advocate it. The legitimate representatives of the Croatian people are being pushed out of power in BiH, and the media in the Republic of Croatia are dealing with skating in the metal stand. Where does that lead? Should all members of the Croatian people also be forced out of BiH to interest the public in the Republic of Croatia through these media in this problem? Listen to the BiH Croats as well. And we are, the Republic of Croatia is part of the EU. That is why it is important to listen to the Croats from BiH and perhaps Europe is easier to reach solutions and processes in BiH in this direction to maybe in some subsequent assessment that BiH plus. Because what happens if BiH gives minus Europe? Let's not let that happen and imagine one of those possible scenarios. How would history judge us? Today, it is up to you to help legal and legitimate Croatian representatives return to power in BiH. Today, it is much easier to return exiles to Savino. So Posavina doesn't paint on all of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79790	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. The first one is Mrs. Mrs. twilight, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79791	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. I listened very carefully to your presentation, but here is the presentation and the bill and of course I will support it. And I'm going to support him for a very simple one, and that's a patriotic reason. As a Croatian from Croatia very often when I go out to meet our Croats, Croats and Croats and their children. They are overjoyed at these meetings and here and recently our beekeepers were in Argentina at a big world convention. I got a postcard, I'm sorry I don't have one, and our Croatian girl in Argentina is 93 years old and she said watch out for Croatia. No one from Croatia, no one from this hometown went beyond the borders because it was nice to him here, so he went looking for something even nicer than the moss they went under Yugoslav and communist authorities to seek and fight with their belly after bread. Likewise, the Croats from BiH, in particular, could not crush them in that stone, they proved to be hardworking workers and left. My colleague Vukic, of course they're not here. Of course they are not here on the left because their main confidant Pusic has long declared Croats in BiH persons non grata. They were declared at the time of the Homeland War when they appeared with all their hearts and helped defend our homeland, today they thank them like this, but today they thank Croatia in different ways, but thank God that they are gone and that all of them are told by their colleague Vukić, you know this well, and we will take care of this government and HDZ and dear God is with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79792	Mr. Vukic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79793	Thank you very much. You spoke of the Croats who speak to you from the world from Argentina and other parts, the truth is that we are displaced around the world, the truth is now half living outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. The fact that people are far from Croatia do not cross them to love their Croatia even more and sacrifice themselves for it as they were sacrificed in the Homeland War. And all those who choose you in one way or another classify you in one or another category, the people, or voters, or the public, and give them the message they deserve. BiH Croats of course did not save themselves in the Homeland War as well as many times throughout history when it comes to Croatian national interests. Bosnia and Herzegovina has always been, and I hope that's how it will remain a future demographic wastelander, which is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79794	Thank you. Replica Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79795	I thank you, Mr. President, so I understand very well your invitation to support you from the left and right. But remember well how the Croats from all over the world and mostly from the BiH responded to the call of freedom when it was due. But I also regrettably have to hear it instead of support from the left side, on the waves of Croatian Radio I heard a repeated scandalous statement by a colleague I won't mention his name to since she's not here, that Croatia was an aggressor. So much for support. I want to say that we are proud of you Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, here I am in my municipality for years working a colony that is for the needs of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I think that we are all obliged to contribute in these other ways in the convergence of course in thanks to you, and I also deeply believe that Bosnia and Herzegovina will become a member of the European Union and thus the rights that we expect for our brothers in BiH will be realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79796	Thank you. Mr. Vukic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79797	Thank you very much, Your Honor. BiH Croats are not seeking any special recognitions for being at the service of their homeland when it was necessary but also disagree with the fact that for daily political needs, they are being spit and classified in what they are not. I know of your concern for the Croats and Herzegovina and Bosnia, and I am glad that this is the case and I know that you are deepening that cooperation and that is the right way within your people to deepen cooperation through various events and occasions. And those who do not love us or love us less will probably get better, will understand what we are talking about today and I sincerely hope that this debate will come to an end and representatives of the opposition parties, join this debate and support this Law because this law is not being passed for one party he is being brought for the sake of the entire Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79798	Thank you. Replica Mr. Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79799	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to say a few words for my colleague Vukic's exposure. It is indeed clear to all of us what situation today and what situation the Croats are in in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The latest developments around Parliament itself and everything that has been happening lately tell the Croats that today is harder than ever and therefore supporting us here and our Parliament and my personal thinking is precisely that this bridge of cooperation must be far greater, far stronger than it has been, because this is exactly the moment when Croats in BiH right now need help. Of course, when we talk about a bridge of cooperation between people living in Croatia today, and above all those people who are in my Požega-Slavon County, in my town of Pleternica, who came to visit Slavonia with their belly for many years ago, these are people who have always been able to make contact and achieve what they want. That is why today's situation in BiH should be seen with special surveillance because today, Croats in BiH are experiencing such insults that they have never experienced before. Therefore, this parliament and the Republic of Croatia, which has also helped the BiH, and not as some MPs here on the left say, if it were an aggressor, Croatia really helped Bosnia and Herzegovina, and if BiH had not helped today, it would have certainly been different and some of the borders would have been tailored as they wanted to, but thanks to the Croats who helped it did not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79800	Thank you. Mr. Vukic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79801	Your Honor, you said one sentence that I would especially like to point out, you said support must be stronger, you meant support from here, and that's true, and that's how it should be. TO attack Croatians or Croatian politics on the issues of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then it is good to remind them that Croatians deserve BiH's independence in the 92nd referendum. That the Croats were the only ones who initially defended BiH from major Serbian aggression and led to the Washington Agreement, to the Storm, or the Dayton Agreement afterwards. And many times both throughout history and in recent history saved BiH, and the last act of that nature happened when it was prevented the adoption of a April package in the BiH Parliament. Croatia's policy in BiH has always been for BiH and I fear that we are left alone in the fight for BiH, that the other two political elites and Banja Luka and Sarajevo are not so interested in BiH. And we will remain the only ones who will talk about BiH to save their survival in BiH. I'm afraid the other two political elites have chosen one other time and my debate has been focused in that direction. That's what I wanted to warn you, I don't want a scenario like that to happen, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79802	Thank you. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79803	Thank you. Mr Vukic, you were mostly talking about the Croats in BiH, probably with the right, although the law applies to all Croatians, not likely but certainly with the right, and I am glad that today is exactly the turn of this law before the end of this term because you deserve it. You said you would like to talk more often about the problem of Croats outside Croatia, but I want to point out something. This assembly has taken a major step, which is that the Croatian Committee is established outside Croatia and I would like to particularly highlight the role of President Dr. Bagarić and of course all of you who are from the 11th election unit, but definitely this committee has become recognizable and one of the reasons why today this is on the agenda is the activity of that committee. And that is why I would like to especially highlight the role of my colleague, Bagaric, and all of you, of course. And when it comes to the fact that without Croats from BiH I dare say there would be no such victory in '09, a magnificent victory and not only was it a syntagm used by the late President Tudjman, the country's Croatia was evicted, but it was reality and it was reality. We must not forget it, it is up to us to preserve it, and that is why this law is welcome and I am convinced that if we were to be the provisions and articles of this law, we were to really celebrate that this will also be passed on to future generations. This is a good reason for this law to be passed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79804	Mr. Vukic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79805	... You were talking about the role of the board. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] This assembly of parliament was founded by this committee, before it was a different committee on immigration. I see this law as a crown of work both in the government and in this committee and in the Assembly when it comes to emigration when it comes to the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia. The role of the Parliament in this mandate you mentioned, I think it is very important that all of these laws regarding Croatia's entry into the EU are passed, and I would like to point out in particular that the Croatian people from BiH have always stood by the Parliament and this Croatian road towards the EU. Why? Because it is our only chance when we speak to the positions of the Croatian people from BiH. We have been attacked very often by 5 of the 11th electoral unit through certain targeted portals in BiH that we have betrayed someone, some kind of policy, etc., no. We have advocated here all the laws that this House has passed and this is an opportunity now to say that this law is one of the crowns of this work, and all that we have brought here is to the benefit and that people in BiH understand that, for the benefit of the Croatian people in BiH. because our only chance is the faster BiH enters the EU or as soon as possible an international conference on BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79806	Thank you. Mr. Boris Kunst, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79807	Well, my colleague Vukic should not be sorry that these cowards are not here, because they are obviously not interested in Croats outside Croatia, and they are not particularly interested in Croats from BiH. I believe I'm also thinking that they're actually collectively ill and they're basically collectively ill with diseases that their president's been suffering for four years, which is a disease of groin, and that's why they're obviously not here today. But it is certain that they will not give up part of their salary for this unhappiness, because they are paid by Croatian citizens and they will not give up that part of the salary that they do not come to work here, while Croatian workers get fired for it and remain without existence. But I must also say that they don't respect this high house, they don't respect anyone because they're obviously only drunk with one wish, and that's how they come to power. And they've been drunk with that desire for four years since they lost the election, they're doing everything to come to power, so they're not really interested in the fate of small people. They are not interested in the fate of Croats outside of Croatia or in BiH or anywhere else, they are interested in themselves and simply struggle to take over and come to power, so I would say stepping across the corpses just to achieve that goal. So you don't need to be sorry they're gone, maybe they'll heal, maybe their groin will heal in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79808	Mr. Vukic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79809	Thank you. I said in my debate that this is a highly interesting national issue and that I would like all parties to be there and that everyone supports the adoption of this law. And now as a Croat from BiH, I say again that I wish they were here because this is too important for us to support this law. The people of the SDP who sat on this committee together with us supported this first reading, the SDP in the first reading supported the adoption of this law and I hope that here is another 60, 75 minutes to 12 hours that they will come to the assembly and support this Law and that our aim is to change their relationship with Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then we succeeded in our mission. The Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina must no longer be subject to conflict on the Croatian political scene. It's hard for us out there. We're coming out of Bosnia and Herzegovina, moving out. Every day we're doing less work, we're out of power, and God forbid it happens to us that we're being pushed out of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Then the subject of all debates will be groundless in both this Parliament and the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79810	Thank you. Replication response. And that was? President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative Luka Bebić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79811	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and deputies. Without any exaggeration or any pathetics, I would like to say at the very beginning of my debate on this item of the agenda that this is one of the historic moments in the entire history of the Croatian people, wherever this nation was located, whether it was in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina where it should be and where it is sovereign, equal, equal or located somewhere around the world. With great excitement, I followed the debate in the first reading. And therefore, with all the remarks we have heard here today, which is why there is no of this or that, because of the size and significance of this moment of adoption of this Law, I am inclined to look at the entire Croatian Parliament. In doing so, I can conclude that in the first reading this Law, the Croatian Parliament supported by 113 votes and 3 abstentions, no one against. No matter what happens now in the finale of this session, this political capital of its own unity and the assessment that it is necessary to pass such a law and to protect Croats around the world with regard to communication towards their country and country of origin, I hope and call on all representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament to vote on this law and other laws that we need to pass, and especially on this law be in the assembly and to manifest support for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in neighbouring countries and Croats around the world. Because it's one moment that, after many, many years after decades, actually sums up the whole problem, raises it to the level of legal protection for Croats, and that's why I think and call on colleagues and colleagues to once again tell all clubs, all MPs to support this law. A great effort has been made here by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Government as a whole by supporting this Law, making a law, respecting remarks after the first reading. And I think that we can best help our people around the world by manifesting one determination, the unity of the Croatian people in support of them and protecting their rights and interests. I would especially like to say a few words about the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, I do not diminish the importance of anywhere in particular I must say in Serbia. I think it's one passing thing, but in the age of population list, there are some things that are not quite right and you should see how to protect their right to plead. As for Bosnia and Herzegovina, I remember '91. In the year, I remember tanks passing through the Shirok Brijeg towards the Kupreg High School, and I remember what the tanks later did in that space. At the request of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Izetbegovic, the Croatian people accepted assurances that were with confidence. We know how the events continued. Many could not have had much effect on them later. But in any case, Croatians supported Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state, Croatia recognised the first Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state. However, Bosnia and Herzegovina of the Berlin Congress I dare say on the basis of what happened in almost 140 or I don't know how many years it hasn't stabilized in one sense in the future stable, etc. We, according to Article 10. We have the right to take care of the Croats wherever they are, including the Croats, their remains are in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There can be no chair that will be or chair that will be staticly balanced and stable if it has two or one legs but can be very stable if it is three years old. And three legs are Bosnians, Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, along with all others of course who have the same rights. And that's the principle. I think we in this policy generally need to stick to principles. It's easier to defend and harder to attack. It should not be entered into details about when discussions can be opened on secondary issues and endanger what is stable, which is clear, which is fundamental and what is principled. And that's why we have to agree on these principles, too, when it comes to Croatians right now, it would be nice, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the same thing when it comes to Croats in another country. If we defend these principles of minority rights in Croatia, we have the right to seek the same reciprocity or such treatment of Croats in neighbouring or other countries. So let's stay at the level of principle, defend them easier, and it's harder to threaten and attack them. I think we're calling our first president Dr. Franjo Tudjman when two of these fundamental pillars of our victory and independence were then founded, it is the unity of the country's evicted Croatia and what we have said not politically, but the human reconciliation of Croats as citizens, as people. This one column of country evicted Croatia, we have now translated into law, and what it meant in '91, '92, etc., we do not need to talk about it, but we need to remember it from time to time, because we are easily forgetting what happened recently. And that's why I think I'm from where I came from, etc. This correspondence with Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other citizens, of course, has been a constant, unquestionable support to the extent possible in the given circumstances and given the behaviour of certain responsibilities, etc., but I want to highlight the unmistakable contribution of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the defence of Croatia, to narrow it down a little, the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also Croatia, from the very beginning, since '91. A year. Nobody forced them, they came alone, they were volunteers, from Vukovar to I don't know which of our battlefields, southern battlefields and other battlefields in Croatia. We must therefore, not only because, but especially and therefore support this law which, in my opinion, is good, which has founded some things of great importance and has passed into the power of the law, of course the law cannot solve everything, but it opens up many possibilities. In life itself, many things will happen in our relationships both in business and in any other respect, and it should also be created by this law to cooperate more intensively in every respect from economy, culture, education, historical knowledge, which we share, etc. Speaking of the rights of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't think they should have any more rights than others, of course three are constituent peoples, Croats as the smallest people, but they are looking for their place. This is what our representatives in Bosnia and Herzegovina will finally, the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, will certainly translate into constitutional norms, and appropriate laws. We give them that support. We also support them about education, about education, about culture, but not that support, sometimes it seems that it is only one-way, it, we also enrich ourselves with culture, history, etc., from everything that is the wealth of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its history, its monasteries, its cultural institutions, and whenever there was spiritual unity, then it was good, not at the expense of anyone else, nor at the expense of anyone else's rights, so here for the third time I call on our colleagues and colleagues to show that we all think in principle the same, in particular, maybe different, but as I said the principles are not difficult to defend, it is difficult to threaten, attack them, and then we are strong. So here's why I'm calling if they listen or have colleagues somewhere, they've given support in their first reading, there's no reason why we're all uniquely not voting for the law that's ahead of us, and in this way we show for me and this 6th session, with the adoption of these laws brings one great value, and this session will be remembered for having passed this very important law. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79812	Thank you. Mr. Representative Rade Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79813	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia is aware of its responsibilities towards the part of the Croatian people living in other countries, and in accordance with the Constitution has committed itself to protecting the interests of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, promoting ties with the homeland, and guaranteeing them special care and protection. Based on this constitutional commitment after years of efforts and preparation today, we have before us a proposal for a Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which regulates the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, respecting all the specificities and different needs of Croatian communities outside the Republic of Croatia. This law regulates the protection of the rights and interests of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, strengthening their communities, with the aim of preserving Croatian language, culture and identity, and informing and connecting them, fostering the development and cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia through cultural, educational, scientific, economic, sports and other cooperation, and prescribing measures and activities when returning Croatian emigrants and moving their descendants. So this law is a framework which the Republic of Croatia wants to fully regulate relations in this area and which will reflect one whole policy of the Republic of Croatia towards Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. In particular, stronger support from the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Croatian people as one of its three constituent forming peoples, who have been decomposed and marginalised in their homeland of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have been systematically and continuously lost the features of constitutionality and rights in their country of origin since the signing of the Washington Treaty and since the signing of the Dayton Agreement, this activity continues to pose a serious threat to the full loss of all the characteristics of constitutionality and national identity in general. The Republic of Croatia has the right and obligation to prevent such plans from being implemented wherever they come from. By passing this law, we open up the possibility of all the quality and fruitful cooperation that will result in the necessary assistance for the Croats in BiH in achieving constitutional and real equality with the other two forming nations in BiH. I beg the diaspora Croats to understand because I will focus my debate mainly on the Croats in BiH because the Croatian people in BiH are experiencing an unbearably difficult time and incredibly dramatic circumstances. Allow just a few examples as an illustration of the position of the Croatian people, the forming people in BiH, in the context of the need to pass this law. The Federation of BiH, in which BiH Croats were dragged into the Dayton Constitution under an empty promise in Washington that it would remain in a confederal relationship with the Republic of Croatia, and then in Dayton that it would have special relations with it has become the opposite of such promises and naive beliefs. It has actually become a far more important framework for the submission of Croats to the Federation of BiH to Bosniaks as the most numerous people. The frauds with the Federation as the first entity of two formally equal nations over time escalated into intolerance and absolute Croatian subordination. This subordination illustrates the fact that the only Croatian people, although constitutional, cannot have their own public tv service such as other two peoples or even a Croatian channel within the public service of BiH. Thus, representatives of the Bosniak club at the House of Nations during the adoption of a decision in the parliamentary assembly on the founding of TV channels in the Croatian language within the framework of the public RTV service of the BIH used the institute vital to the national interest against the adoption of the decision. Can we even imagine how vital it can be, the national vital interest of Bosniaks, that the Croatian people do not have a channel in Croatian? Unfortunately, BiH can do so because the Croatian people are damaged, so no one cares except the Croats themselves in BiH. I will give just one more example which also testifies to the disenfranchisement of the Croatian people in BiH, and concerns the process of establishing authorities in the counties of the Federation of BiH and at BiH level after last October's elections. In the County, the central Bosnia government was established without the Croatian parties winning in an unconstitutional manner. At the level of the Federation of BiH, the government was also set up in an anti-constitutional manner, with the help of the international community's top representative in BiH. The harsh violation of the Federation of BiH constitution has prevented the two HDZ authorities from participating in the two HDZ authorities that won more than 90% of Croatian votes at BiH level in these elections. And after more than a year of negotiation, the Council of Ministers was not set up because of a reckless protest by Bosniak parties to take office in the Council of Ministers belonging to the Croatian people, which, with the 90% electoral legitimacy of Croats, is represented by two HDZs. In many such, I cited only some problems as examples of BiH Croat inequality with the other two of its constituent peoples. For all reasons to be indicated, indicators and consequences of such a situation would not be sufficient for one such brief exposure. Bosnia and Herzegovina faces constitutional changes that must follow because BiH with such a constitutional solution is inadmissible, and its future is very questionable. Bringing the new BiH Constitution is an opportunity to achieve the constitutional and real equality of the Croatian people in BiH with the other two peoples in BiH. Therefore, it is very important that the Republic of Croatia advocates the establishment of full constitutional and real institutional equality of all three sovereign and constitutional peoples in BiH, which can only be achieved by the same and fair constitutional and administrative and territorial structure of the whole of BiH, which will equally regulate the principle of sovereignty, constitutionality and equality of the peoples and citizens. It will be a strong wind in the core of the political representatives of the Croats in BiH in the constitutional reform process in BiH. A very important segment of relations which, apart from the fact that the Republic of Croatia has a constitutional obligation to guarantee the parts of the Croatian people in other countries special care and protection is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and to have, nurture and develop good neighbourly relations with BiH between a number of reasons and because of the fact that the Republic of BiH has a significant export market which is primarily achieved in areas where Croats live, the length of the mutual border, etc. Informing is a very important segment in creating and maintaining relations between the Republic of Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia and informing should be objective, timely, comprehensive, and in the context of this law and mutually two-way information. The fact is that the information of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia about events and conditions in Croatia is good, but that the information of the Croatian public in the Republic of Croatia about events and the situation of Croats and about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is not satisfactory. That would have to change with this law. Overall, information in this direction is improbable and often unobstructed. Croatian Radio has several very good shows dealing with information on Croatian issues outside the Republic of Croatia, but that is not enough. Croatian television has recently started broadcasting a show called BiH Chronicle, which quickly reached a very high level of ratings which also confirms the justification for the existence and need for more quality and intensive information on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and particularly on Croats in BiH. I hope that the BiH chronicle show will put Croatia's TV at the top of its programme's priorities. Finally, I ask the Croatian Parliament, the President and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do everything possible by the Republic of Croatia to prevent further devasting of the rights and position of the Croatian people in BiH. Let us support the uncontested right of the Croatian people to choose their representatives independently in the bodies and institutions of national representation at all levels of government in BiH. Let us support the achievement of the equal position of the forming Croatian people, give support to this law and to the Croats in BiH and their difficult struggle for survival and equality in their homeland in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79814	Replications. Mr. Representative Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79815	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President Bosnjak, we have worked on this law together through the committee and it is certainly an opportunity to thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for understanding and for all the help we have at the end of this bill. It is an opportunity to thank all the MPs who understand these problems and understand us in our intentions. It is also an opportunity to thank the Catholic Church in the Croats who has always been with their people and has often done what this Law says. It is also an opportunity to thank the Croatian parties from Bosnia and Herzegovina who supported us in this business. Thank you and all our associations who have been with us in making this Act, there is Mr Bruno Ivkić, secretary of the Ring Association, one of the associations that participated in this whole business. And finally, I think it's time for us 11th constituency representatives to thank our Committee President, Mr. Ivan Bagarić, who has been going after this whole time and encouraged us to bring this and work on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79816	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79817	In any case, you have rightly expressed your gratitude to the individuals and bodies of the Republic of Croatia who at this time encouraged you to assist and encourage the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croats in every way outside the Republic of Croatia. We often say that this support is not enough, it is really not enough for us to protect the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina as the letter of the Constitution and its rights and status as a constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or what we want in the end as one of the three peoples and what the President of the Parliament said, we want nothing more but no less than the other two constituent peoples in BiH because this right is indivisibly equal to all. I also want to take advantage of the occasion and I regret that there was no longer any opportunity to say all we needed to say to the Republic of Croatia and in this place to the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia in particular in BiH but in any case thank the Republic of Croatia for all the help it has done and does towards the Croats in BiH. Finally, without mutual support and help what Croats from BiH can do to the Republic of Croatia. What the Republic of Croatia can do for its part, it has an obligation under the Constitution to do for both the Croats in BiH and the Croats around the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79818	Mr. Representative Mato Bilanic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You were talking about Dayton, you were saying something about the Homeland War that offered me. In fact, at the beginning of the aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina, while in Zenica and Sarajevo they ate kevapi, licked ice cream, we in the sweat and blood of Bosnia and Herzegovina, defending BiH had already set up hundreds of our young and girls when the then president of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not know what was happening to him and where the borders asked her who was shooting at Bosnia and Herzegovina. During the Homeland War in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I was the war commander and defence commander of Derventa, and the 4th Guard Motorised Brigade, one of the axle forces that defended that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which also defended the borders of the Republic of Croatia, were Muslims in our troops, in the Republic of Croatia were Muslims and Serbs because the Republic of Croatia cared for those people as well as health care in hospitals and fed their families all the time. The only people who defended Bosnia and Herzegovina within the borders were members of the Croatian Defence Council, and our boys who came from the Croatian Army and returned to Bosnia and Herzegovina were from Bosnia and Herzegovina. When the unfortunate Dayton was signed, we were told that this Federation would grow into a confederate with the Republic of Croatia, that then the members of the Croatian Defence Council knew that this way the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina would remain alone against the two nations who joined us against us would certainly not put the guns in the closets but would go on fighting. And it should finally be said, you said thank you to the Republic of Croatia for everything it has done towards the Croats from BiH. I have been living with the family in the Republic of Croatia for 20 years but it is necessary to say thank you to the Croats from BiH for everything they did during the Homeland War for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79820	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79821	Mr Biljic, fellow MP, I am pleased that you have expanded this debate in this direction and it is indeed necessary to say in the context of this debate that the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, by organising themselves to the Croatian Council of Defense, were the first to stand in the defence of BiH, and, unfortunately, those voices and such voices are heard from here from this Assembly. Which is not good at all. So, BiH Croats so organised were the first to stand up for BiH when its chairman, Ali Izetbegovic, said 1. Ten. In 91st year, when the Croatian village is leveled, it is not our war. The BiH Croats knew at that time they had no one to expect protection, assistance and support from except their Republic of Croatia. We've organized and fought for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I can't stand these claims that say the opposite of this. Today, unfortunately, the Croatian people in BiH want to be completely Satanized and brought into the context of war criminals and all other negative ones, which would eventually end up disappearing as a constituent and becoming a national minority, and then, with the benefits they have as citizens of the Republic of Croatia as well as the EU's nice and easy to come out as in the context of the 4km highway that BiH has allowed to be built on Croatian space, in southern Herzegovina, our last prime minister in the Council of Ministers said, these are the 4km and they want to give them to build a wide road where they would open the way out. So, Croats do not have a narrow space for BiH's exit.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79822	And Mr. Representative Bozo Bishop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Bosniak mentioned culture in his presentation. I think that here should be particularly highlighted by the Croatian Government's support system and direct support but, of course, indirectly through the Croatian Emigrants' Mother in the field of culture. Why did I say especially in the field of culture? Because culture actually keeps the identity of the Croatian people in BiH and, of course, in those countries where they moved hundreds of years ago, especially those waves of emigration in 20. A century from the beginning until the creation of the Croatian state. Why does it matter? This is important because in this way we revive and preserve on the one hand customs, on the other hand we help modern efforts in culture, on the third hand... a beautiful example of Croats in Chile who make up one whole group of so-called. Croatian-Cilean literature which Croatia also helps, especially in recent years with the translation system into Croatian. I think it is also very important to highlight this debate, because by preserving a culture of the preservation of the heritage of national identity, and in neighbouring BiH, and by restoring numerous sacral objects, of course, the preservation of faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79824	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79825	You well told your fellow Bishop about the culture and assistance of the Republic of Croatia and in this area to the Croats in BiH and, of course, around the world to all Croatians, I believe in the same way. The Croats in BiH are very much in need of help in this area, but in each other, but in the area of culture, the area of language is of paramount importance to what protects identity as Croats in BiH. It is clear that the Republic of Croatia will not and cannot permanently ensure this solution without BiH institutions, without a solution to the status of Croats in BiH, but in any case it is a great help at this time, especially at this time when we as a people are disbursed and when we cannot count on particularly non-essential sources of the Federation of BiH budget, or BiH. The budgets at the county level are very impoverished. The Federation of BiH takes over from the jurisdiction of the county, transfers to the Federation level where we have no access, where we cannot influence and then, of course, the money is drained from there on some kind of crack mines and I don't know what else, the failed companies, what can not be revived at all, where there is a hole without the bottom, and of course where Croats have no touch. Here I would like to mention that the media in BiH's Croatian language no longer practically exist, and the local ones we had can no longer survive because, for example, Croatian Radio Hercegbosne and its active 15 months did not receive the salary. Without the help of the Republic of Croatia in this part, we will find it difficult to welcome this constitution that we have been waiting so long and through which we want to address the issue of Croats in BiH in a systematic and constitutional way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79826	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Whenever we talk about Croats outside Croatia, we must remember that these Croats have driven them from their homes to hunger, dictatorships of a political or social non-democratic environment. In the past 100 years it has led so much to the fact that it is as much Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as it is in Croatia. And how convenient it is to be a Croat outside Croatia, so first of all our children should be asked when they go on a 15-day trip where tourists enjoy another country and can't even last two weeks, they can't wait to get home. Many days of suffering have gone to Croatia, but have contributed greatly to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, and most have been shown in the Homeland War. How much they sent help it is invaluable, how many Croatians are outside the Republic of Croatia, we even have a president of the academic community in other countries. It is of invaluable importance for the Republic of Croatia as well. And we helped, but not always in an optimal and rational way and not enough as we might have needed. Circumstances were complicated. We used to fight back in an unacceptable way. We should remember the founder and the savings of Croatia's banks who invested 5,000 emigrants in shares and today disbursed to solve the problem. We need to remember and save Glumina's bank from Chile to New Zealand where they lost their last dollar of savings in one unscrupulous way, they robbed them. This law is a true step in different relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, it creates a framework for one thanks to those Croats who have helped the Republic of Croatia so much. This law also provides for economic co-operation in particular with regard to investments by Croats outside Croatia in Croatia, but we need to draw attention to the importance of Croatians' investments in the BiH area where Croats live first and to invest in production. Only a few factories would ensure the future of this people, our people in BiH. But it's lagging behind, but this law will create assumptions of that coming to pass. Everywhere they lived, Croats showed themselves, confirmed themselves, and became desirable members of the community where they created their new home. But unfortunately, it is the least beautiful thing for Croats in BiH in their homeland. It's a civilization paradox that feels bad about the one whose country it is. The Croats feel bad there because they are only declaratively equal. They're in practice in reality not equal. He doesn't need to be overly politically educated to understand that. They're really not even and it needs to be changed. We are, too, opening up many opportunities to help Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They are expected by one negotiating process when entering the European Union. Here's an example of how this situation is now being seen by the Croats as the main bearer of the negotiation process. So let's help ourselves from Croatia, we'll choose 50 young people we'll fund, educate, educate with our own who for ten years have hard-earned knowledge of invaluable value to link them to tomorrow with Bruxel, to meet the institutions, to meet the officials, to get to know this negotiating process and to be the bearers of this negotiating process. These people in the future will then also be a pledge for Bosnia and Herzegovina's success in the European Union. There is also a way to help, to choose them, to educate them and to finance them, and it is not a great cost. This law created a systematic optimal and effective framework for future co-operation with all Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I once said once upon a time that all Croats wherever they were must act as two wings of the same door that must always be closed and opened together. And now I'm only going to add that this law creates a framework for Croats to breathe wherever they are together. But they don't always breathe, and you know it very well when you say there's no TV channel in Bosnia and Herzegovina or in Croatian. Well, of course not, because there is a complete unity of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina when there are those who publicly say on behalf of the Croats that we do not need such a channel and that intellectuals, individuals who get more space in the media than 99% of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who yearn for such a channel. Unfortunately, there's that too. This law I think will contribute to the better status of Croats wherever they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79828	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Davor Huška, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maric, here's what you've asked me to do with a replica, and I'm going to mention two things here. First volunteers, Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina were in the Homeland War in Western Slavonia, in the area of the entire battlefield of the Republic of Croatia, who made a major contribution to the preservation of the free, independent Republic of Croatia. Thank them so much for all the guys who've been to our checkpoints. Secondly, when we talk about cooperation and assistance to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, here is a concrete example. Already today, in the way this assistance is being realized, this cooperation is developing. In my town of Pakrac, there are many Croats who have come from central Bosnia, specifically from the Dobretići municipality where they were chased during and after the Homeland War, and we are setting up some concrete forms of cooperation with them and help, so that two workers from the Dobretic municipality spent two weeks in Pakrac, a business center in Pakrac where they worked on writing concrete projects for the European Union, where girls learned how to write projects for the European Union and where we stay in a strong cooperation when they run certain programmes to continue to benefit them and help because we have a rich experience already in these programmes. Secondly, we are open today to the possibility of an IPA programme of cross-border cooperation between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and here I am pleased to say that from there our Slavonian area of the municipality of Gornji Bogicevci writes a programme along with the municipality of Dobretic and cultural cooperation. And for the spring of Pakrac and Dobretić, we are preparing an economic programme that we will run for business, meaning the component of the IPA programme where employment, cultivation, collection of healing plants, processing in the municipality of Dobretić is the same program, will be implemented in Slavonia in particular in the area of Pakrac. Here are concrete examples of current cooperation. We welcome this Law, and I believe it will facilitate and improve cooperation on the economic agenda in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79830	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79831	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Huška, in Gruda, Posuje, Tomislavgrad, Široki Brijeg, Ljubusko there was no war but the Croats from these areas were the first to jump to defend both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina from occupiers and enemies. Today, many widows and children pay for their dead fathers and wives. And when the war was in full swing and while they were still killed from these areas, the first exiles from the territory of Croatia were, for example, opening their doors to their homes and their hearts and their souls and receiving them to their homes and showing how much they love their homeland of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also their homeland to the Republic of Croatia. And today Slunj is grateful to the municipality of Gruda for all that they have done for them, for having received all the exiles into their homes even though they were struck by war. Well, I have to mention the neighboring Imotsky who also didn't have a war, but where hundreds were killed. And they showed how much they love Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79832	Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79833	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's my colleague Maric I'd like to say something about cultural cooperation and preservation of cultural heritage. Namely, there is one association here in Croatia and these are Petra's braids. They have a wonderful action called Mother's story. This Materina story with Croatian-related motives has been around the world. So here is our Prime Minister and, as Prime Minister and Vice President, she proudly carried her bag with her Croatian motives and her maps. The truth is, these "corks" they made fun of it because, you know, their fellow Maric is very patriot and national pride is not in their best interests and they don't have him, and here we are entering the European Union, we are entering full of national pride and our identity. Similarly, through these things this national identity will remain and people are very much outside of Croatia our Croats have sought these items just so they can get them, so they can have them, buy them, proudly carry them in parliaments of other states. So will pride be the same with this Croatian card, because having something like that in your hand is a matter of identity, of pride of national pride.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79834	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79835	My colleague Sumrak, cultural cooperation is extremely important for all Croatians both in Croatia and outside the Republic of Croatia, and I think we are also a colleague of Biskupić earlier said that we have done the most in this area. And how happy they are when they get help from Croatia for the maintenance of cultural heritage, so best shows one event for the purchase of the costume cultural and artistic society in Grudas received 8 thousand kunas. They're overjoyed. That's all they've been talking about all year. But the Croats have always helped themselves, as is important in the cultural field, is most important when hunger is and then they show themselves. Even today they are convinced and theatre works are doing how Fr. Didak Buntic, in hungry years after World War II, took children who were starving to Herzegovina to Slavonia and where Slavonia accepted broad hearts and fed them, and today, Croatians from Herzegovina are grateful to Slavonians for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79836	Mr. Representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Marić, you said that the Croats are least beautiful in their homeland, I suppose, referring to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and from all the exhibitions of you from the 11th constituency, it is also obvious that you are not at all nice. You also said that the non-democratic environment has driven the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, meaning not only in the Homeland War, but also before, as I come from Zadar County, from Benkovec, at the invitation of the late President Tudjman we have received about a thousand Croats mostly from central Bosnia. With the help of us from the local self-government and the government of the Republic of Croatia, four settlements were built with Croats from BiH. A member of the Democratic Party of Serbs who wore a Chetnik uniform and who welcomed Arkan as a national hero gives himself the right to challenge the settlement of Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina into the area, also calling me a racist. How difficult it is then for these Croats, meaning those who have not come to Croatia by their own free will and who cannot return to their homes where they once lived, is clearly visible from all these exhibitions today. Of course, such a law was necessary for Croats, primarily for Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79838	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79839	Thank you very much. I said that the only thing that is not nice to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is that you understand that. So how can they be nice? I can't hear the news, I can't listen, I can't listen to the journal in Croatian. How can they be nice? How can they feel when someone convinces them that another person’s tongue is their language? When can I not maintain my traditional customs or cultural heritage? How nice it can be for them, if it were nice 20 years ago, there would be 750 thousand in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and today after 20,472 thousand. That they're nice, nobody leaves where they're nice. Two hundred and sixty thousand wouldn't have gone under duress if they were so pretty. They obviously don't like it. And of course, I'll repeat, it's a civilization paradox that a nation feels bad in its homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79840	Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79841	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Maric, some of your thesis from your debate, has asked me to report for the replica. First of all, why this law is needed. This should be made clear here, some in the last elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina supported political options that Croats and Croatians simply meant nothing. They are ready to erase any aid from the state budget to Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina tomorrow. But when we talk about helping Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, then we must not forget, I think it should be mentioned today, it is the University of Mostar. The University of Mostar is a backbone to build assistance for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it will educate Croats who will tomorrow be carriers of economic development, and only a strong economic basis guarantees survival for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And here I want to look back at one association, not because Mr Ilkic is here, but simply because I think they are doing well, it is the Ring Association, which is not only that what they have gained knowledge and experience in Croatia wants to pass on to Bosnia and Herzegovina, but every year they share scholarships with Croatians from Bosnia and Herzegovina to educate them so they can be down tomorrow. I repeat only economic strong entities where Croats are located in Bosnia and Herzegovina will guarantee the survival of Croats, because let's look at what used to be in central Bosnia where Croatian kings were tabled, today there are Croats in the minority. And it best shows us if we don't do anything about what's going to happen in all the other places. And I have to touch one question, it just can't stay without being mentioned in this High House, the Herzegovina Bank. Do either of you here, who knows who and why he and the tanks got into that bank today? Was there really crime there, but one is true, that the Herzegovina bank was the backbone of the then most developed part, the only part in Bosnia and Herzegovina that worked, it was Herzegovina. And at the moment the Herzegovina bank was abolished, the exodus of Croats began from that area they would probably never go from. It's simply a question that must be mentioned here, a question that must not be kept silent here in this House of Commons. And that's why every honor the gentlemen of the Ring Association, who directed their economic power not only to the part from which they came from the Bosnian Posavina, but to the complete part, was sometimes done by the traditional clubs that didn't have enough power. And if the Croatian state had not assisted cultural communities and parishes in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the question of what would happen today with the reconstruction of churches and everything in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, counterpart Maric gives them economic strength in the future that the Croatian state needs towards the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as economic power only guarantees the survival of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79842	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79843	Thank you very much. You've told me so much in your replica, I should be talking for another 15 minutes, but I'll just connect to this nowhere in the world no one's ever opened a bank in the morning with a tank, just in the Gruds. And imagine that no one has even responded to how much of a pie nation it is and what a savage turnout it is. And today, no one for this savage, terrorist attack on one bank, no one answered, no one even announced what was in the background. Is that how it was supposed to be? What was that made of? No one, like it didn't happen. The media won't write about it at all, nor will they write about it. Here, remember. But I agree that the foundation of the future of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina is education, that this is an extremely excellent move with the establishment of a university in Mostar, which is not only for Croats, but is open to all, and Croats, we in Croatia want a proud BiH future member of the EU with equal three peoples, both Croats and Bosniaks and Serbs. But not with unequal Croats like that now. BiH as a state wouldn't have survived if it hadn't been for the Croats. That should be clear to everyone. Nor will it survive if there is no Croat in it. The future of BiH depends on all three peoples. The Croats cannot be excluded from the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79844	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79845	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here is Mr. Maric, not only did you, as a top intellectual, draw Croatian to the surface so clearly that I show the reasons for the adoption of this law that we all agreed on, but that this is a historic moment, but what made me appear to you in the replica, i.e. I also need to underline your thinking of a dimension that we must never forget, which is the dimension of patriotism. You have shown it in a wonderful way, in fact, to all of us here because without true genuine love and awareness that we belong to the Croatian people both in Croatia and outside Croatia, especially when you return to the not-so-far-far-away Croatian past in the Homeland War you also witnessed very plastically illustrated this union. I agree with you when you draw all this out, but I would also agree that the Central Office for Croats beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia as well as the Office of Welcomes as well as the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be on the trail of this testimony of community as well as the empowerment of all Croats, which is certainly the contribution of this law and the merits of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79846	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79847	Thank you very much. If it wasn't for love, there would be no law. And this law is the consequence of love and the relationship of Croats in the Republic of Croatia to all Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Although many in the media are trying to distort the picture of Croats in BiH, their role in the Homeland War and the war in BiH, they have shown love for both BiH and Croatia. But some find it strange how it is possible that someone who has not been attacked is going to defend his friend, cousin, unknown to the area where the Croat was attacked. Only those who do not love can not understand it, only those who do not have love for the Croatian people. That's why I understand all the ones in the area that I've just listed where the gun didn't fire a single shot fired in four years, and there are hundreds of dead in that area. Because they couldn't watch BiH attacked and Croatia attacked. They went to defend their home outside their home because they knew if they fell they would fall 100 km from their homes that they would trap and his home. Therefore, you have well said that love is the foundation of everything, the driving force of society, but it has not yet disappeared in the Croats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79848	Okay. It's Mr. Jerko Roshin's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79849	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. I'm happy to respond to this debate. I have already talked about this topic in the previous debate and I think it is interesting to have a movement on the issue of Croats in BiH from people living outside BiH, not so dominant people who are from 11. Election units, i.e. people who tied their lives to BiH by birth or work. Why I'm talking about this again even though it seems like it shouldn't be important, there's no important thing to say again, what it showed then and voting almost 100% on the basis of a bill like this, in fact no one was against and on the one hand the Assembly Hall is because in the meantime I've come up with some new knowledge, some new knowledge that seems worth saying at this point. One of these is the knowledge today that what is rarely happening and the President of the Croatian Parliament participated in the debate on this topic, which shows the importance of this topic in the work of the Croatian Parliament, but I am also sorry that the debate does not take part and some who have not raised themselves above other reasons for not participating in the debate in the assembly. The need to pass laws, i.e. legal regulation of certain situations, shows that things did not take place in a way that is acceptable and that the law requires certain things to be regulated although the principles are already laid down in the Constitution itself in Article 10 that is mentioned. However, it is obvious that the practice of certain things is being denied, i.e. that it leads in a different direction and that it is therefore necessary to regulate it by law. Something in particular prompted me to this debate was a conversation with high school students in a small hall where one of the questions was asked by one student why is it allowed for BiH Croats to not make certain profits in Croatia's social character and social character? And that, in fact, by achieving these certain rights that they have the right to harm those who live in Croatia. That's what the debate about the number of people living outside was about, and they're voting here, and the whole debate is going one way, in my opinion, the wrong way. And she went the wrong way because there is obviously a certain twisted consciousness which actually means the problem of the Croats in BiH for Croatia itself, and that means for the Croats themselves. I think that this state of consciousness is extremely important, this erroneous state of consciousness, or in this particular case and manipulated debate on one subject. If the maturity of the students is such that they can be manipulated. It once again confirms the need for such a law. But the two elements that were mentioned here one little more one almost entirely insignificant scale is the question of culture and economy. I mean the topic that my colleague, Bozo Biskupić, first stressed from the need to highlight what the government was doing in this field, regardless of cultural cooperation, helping to develop culture, I think it is important to point out that the question of culture is what represents the identity of a nation, and that therefore every work in the field of culture is very important, whether culture could be realized even more important that there is a strong economic basis that could contribute to it. That is why it seems to me that economic relations, economic relations, interventions in Bosnia and Herzegovina itself, or in Croatia itself, but in border areas with BiH are extremely important for the survival of Croats in BiH and for their better economic position. I would therefore like to appeal that this Law is not only implemented in the way of one declaration, one awareness of the need for special care, the compensation of what has not happened so far, but that it is transformed from principle into a practice that will help the economy in the areas where Croats live in BiH or in the areas with these free borders to develop economically and thus enable the survival of Croats in that area. It has already been pointed out many times today in the debate, so I would not say it specifically, but still to say something about it, the relationship between Croatia and Croatia towards the Croats in BiH at the time of the war has proved to be the best possible way, the relationship was very strong, thanks to this relationship, perhaps today in the Croatian Parliament we are discussing it and I think that from this moment forward, this direction of action should be as strong as possible from Croatia to the Croats in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79850	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Frano Matušić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79851	I thank Mr. President, we have before us the Law on the Relations of the Republic of Croatia on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who will really advance this area which is extremely important for the entire Croatian Corps, because for the first time in this quality it regulates this issue which is of interest and we expected this Law to be supported by all, it has received the support of all in the Croatian Parliament in the first reading but we expected that the rest of us in this Assembly that we represent the ruling coalition. Furthermore, much has already been said about the Law itself the biggest focus was around the Croats in BiH and it seems to me that this thesis presented by Mr Maric is that the worst feeling of Croats in their home country in BiH so that some statements may spread to Croatia, so that the virus may also affect Croatia because of some statements of political rivals in this Assembly. Namely, why am I saying this? I am speaking with this morning's statement by my colleague Vesna Pusic on the air of Croatian Radio where she reiterated the thesis that Croatia was an aggressor in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a scandalous statement she repeated today in the Croatian Radio era on the first programme that Croatia was an aggressor in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think he mentioned the beginning of the aggression of large-scale Serbian aggression on the Republic of Croatia, so he mentioned that the large-serb forces were the first place they attacked in BiH was Ravni in BiH, which they leveled with a country that was part of BiH after which then President Ali Izetbegovic said it was not his war, it was indeed scandalous and there was something that no one could expect. At the same time, attacks on Dubrovnik were led from the BiH border area, so from the border part of BiH on edge, Serbian forces from Trebinj attacked both Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik and Konavalska parish and the Dubrovnik coast, so it was absolutely unacceptable that then BiH leader Alija Izetbegovic said it was not his war and that it was not their war and that at the same time BiH served as a polygon from which Croatia was attacked and even served as a major Serb aggression where it was leveled I say a place called Straight and the surrounding places that were indeed in some way the only goal of large-serb aggression so that they could reach Croatian space. The fact that the Croatian people in BiH have suffered greatly, that they have participated both in the defence of BiH and in the defence of the Republic of Croatia, and the fact that today he does not enjoy the rights guaranteed by the Dayton Treaty, and that is something to worry about, is something that the Council of Europe also takes care of. A few days ago, we had a meeting of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg where one of the declarations was also applied to BiH where it was found that Croatian representatives in the BiH, that Croatian representatives present today as representatives of the Croatian people are not really the real representatives of the Croatian people because the Croatian people voted in the largest majority over 90% for representatives of the two HDZ parties who tried to throw other parties in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina out of BiH's political life. Which is inadmissible because it would thus try to marginalise the Croatian people in the Bih precisely through those parties that unfortunately had the support of the Croatian parties. It should not be forgotten that the SDP of Croatia Milanovic supported the SDP in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who wanted to marginalise the election results of the Croatian people in BiH, it is absolutely unacceptable. So, and that fact was highlighted by the european council in its resolution. And those who present themselves as Croatian representatives today do not have the true legitimacy of the Croatian presidents in BiH, there is thought of these small parties that have co-ordinated with the SDP of BiH. Therefore, we should clearly say that we should fight for the rights of Croats wherever they are, and of course our constitutional obligation is a special concern and that stems from the Deion Agreement a special concern to take care of the Croats in BiH. When I talk about a broader sense of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, then it should be said that this law really represents one quality framework in order to really present everything that represents the national identity of Croats to the positive heritage that the Croatian people have throughout the centuries to protect themselves and to best be presented to other countries and other peoples where Croats or national minorities are, such as in our environment in EU countries or are simply emigration that has their status in those countries and I think that they are in the best possible way representing the Republic of Croatia and can now be a bridge link between the Republic of Croatia and all these countries. Croatia has very high standards regarding respect for the rights of national minorities and we expect not only in the region but also everywhere where we have good relations with all the countries in the EU but also outside it, to respect the rights of the Croatian people to all the essential elements that really mean the right to cultural self-loathing, a national provision that means preserving Croatian language, which also means the presentation of Croatian culture and Croatian heritage, everything we have created over the centuries and remains a mark on the world stage as a mark of the Croatian people. And in that sense, I think that really this law that is before us offers a very, very high-quality framework that will help to make these rights simple and real. I would also like to say that an important article in this part is also talking about a concrete mechanism called the central state office that will be established by the basis of this law and that will indeed ensure quality quality of assistance to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and that will specifically bring positive effects in the defence of all these rights and in the exercise of all these rights. There were also some occurrences that were very negative, which did not experience their epilogue, a jurisprudence in courts, so the Herzegovica Bank was mentioned. I think it is a matter of exceptional importance for the Croats in BiH, because it really is here today after ten years of that tank break-in into an institution called the bank simply has not been justified, it has never experienced a court case that someone has been convicted of something, and a bank has been destroyed, and what is the worst to take away the deposits of Croatian citizens and Croatian companies who have had their deposits in the Hercegovina Bank. To make the matter worse, Croatians who took loans from that same bank and had their deposit in that bank can't get to their deposit because unfortunately because of their actions and the international community, that deposit was taken away from them, no one wants to pay them back, and at the same time if they took a loan in that bank, they have to repay the daily loan, they have to fulfill their credit obligation to that bank where someone stole it, we can say freely, steal their deposit, their amount. Isn't that a shame, as well as an international community that elegantly shifted the question of the bank when it was destroyed they transferred it to the central state of the Federation to transfer the issue to Sarajevo, where the issue simply cannot be resolved because there is no legal basis and there is no telling who should depriving those who had a deposit. It's just a scandalous theft. Someone needs to answer for that. Croatia and the Croatian people should be pulled right under these institutions in front of legal institutions that can and should guarantee the equal rights of Croatian citizens in BiH. A simple question that needs to be resolved and the results that should be delivered and which should simply be compensated by Croatian citizens and Croatian companies who had deposits in that bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79852	Thank you. If I could ask my colleagues, they could sit here in the benches upstairs. Not just colleagues of someone and colleagues and colleagues. We have three replicas on this exhibit. First is Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79853	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Matusic, European BiH is in the interest of both Croatia and all BiH citizens. However, the concerns expressed here for BiH are absolutely justified, because BiH unfortunately did not regulate relations in a way that makes three peoples equal. And that is the fundamental problem of BiH, it is a fundamental danger to BiH and is challenging the survival of BiH itself. The law will also establish the position of Croats in Serbia and the position of Croats in BiH, however, it is very important that I say political intervention in every respect of the Republic of Croatia towards BiH in terms of support for Croats in BiH. Croatia has already done so and supported BiH. Now I give the answers to them, and thank you for giving me the opportunity to declare what they have declared, and they themselves do not know what they say. If they knew what they were saying then they would know that BiH's independence was carved primarily by the BiH Declaration of Independence in BiH in the 1990s when it couldn't be brought without Croatian MPs. It wouldn't have been BiH if it hadn't been for the declaration. Later, there would have been no referendum on BiH's independence. And the Croats went out and gave full support. And finally, these poor people playing with big words and using them wrongly for some kind of aggression. But my people during the war all the support of BiH was humanitarian, whether war came with air, sea or land from Croatia or through Croatia. So that's the answer and that's the only truth, and the rest are just shades of which these want to make some big stories, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79854	Thank you. Answer Mr. Frane Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79855	I agree with my colleague, Bagaric, with you completely. I would just say, of course, that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is European Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we absolutely support that Bosnia and Herzegovina is going that way. And of course, the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina are also pursuing these same goals, just as it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia that the entire Southeast Europe is going through European or Euro-Atlantic integration. So, it's absolutely interest to have one stable development, we'll have peace in these areas and we'll have standards that guarantee the rights of the Croatian national minority in all of these countries as well as we today have protected, guaranteed rights of all national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. I'm glad you reminded these facts, the historical facts that the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina were those with whose votes voted Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence as an independent state. But it should be reminded again about those who placed the thesis such as Mrs Pusic that Croatia has committed aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina. It should be recalled that Croatia has defended Bosnia and Herzegovina together with the forces of the BiH Army, that we have prevented another repetition of Srebrenica, that we have simply done everything possible by virtue of the agreement Croatia had with Bosnia and Herzegovina. So these are historical facts, and none of what's trying to place it in such a miserable way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79856	Replica Mr Dragan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79857	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You talked about how very often, unfortunately, God knows whose interests thesis on aggression against the Republic of Croatia has been expressed, and how the aggression has been done by the Republic of Croatia to Bosnia and Herzegovina. This is one big lie, and we Witnesses of that time need to talk about it when unfortunately they don't talk about it or not enough about it are the media and everyone else who should talk about it. It is true that the then Yugoslav People's Army from Zupa to Dubrovnik attacked the Republic of Croatia from Bosnia and Herzegovina, assisted by part of the Serb people who participated in the occupation. You mentioned flat. 20 years ago, in October, more precisely on October 1st, when he began on Dubrovnik, he began the attack on Ravna. It is right in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the then government in Sarajevo has put the flat case on the agenda for 17 days. From this perspective, I can also understand that there was fear and that there was no need to talk about it. But today after 20 years that no one was processed because 66 people were killed there, because 17 villages in today's municipality were completely leveled to the ground and no one was responsible for it. And it should be said that this is exactly where the first armed resistance occurred in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this is where the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina started and that the reduction of the goal of Serbia's great border in Neretva was eventually brought down. Because the HVO and the Croatian army on the southern battlefield defended the area and stopped the breach to the south, i.e. cutting off at Ploč.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79858	Thank you. Answer. Nothing, okay. We also have a replica of Mr. Rade Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79859	You're a good colleague of Matusic's, you've touched the issue of the Herzegovina Bank and everything related to the Herzegovina Bank. I want to say here, I don't think it can be kept quiet simply that, the question of the Herzegovina Bank and the tank collapse of that same bank, of course, has its own background. She's got her own goal. We rarely could hear from the mouth of individuals of the international community who preceded the act, that the Croatian people, or where in most of the Croats live in an economic sense, are far above where the Bosniaks live, or where the Serbs live, and that the level of quality of life should be reduced to a lower level and led to some unification. That is why the destruction of the Herzegovina Bank and the destruction of the economic power of Croats, the economic power of Croats, the economic power of the area where the Croats are in the majority. No one today mentions where hundreds of millions of marks from that bank went missing along with, of course, what counterpart Matusic said about the very deposits of credit from citizens. Today, a federal tax administration inspection in areas where the majority of Croats live in Herzegovina in one of their reports has conducted 56 reviews in the companies in Serbia in most Croatian and 9 in the rest of the Federation. Similarly, it happens to defenders who experience a terrible torture, pressure from Bosniaks through the revision of disability and rights that defenders therefore demand. Today, in Croatian space, you can only read daily that already over 1,000 defenders have been removed from that care. Of course, I support all those who took off and got it unwarranted. But I don't think that's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79860	Thank you. Answer Mr. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79861	Well, you're right, you're a fellow Bosniak. I think the answer should be given, someone needs to answer whether this money, which was in the interest of it, is the goal of putting the economic power of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because it's really obvious. Because if after ten years there's no conviction, there's no one on the defendant's bench who's accused of any criminal activity, and you ruined the bank, someone really has to answer for it. Someone absolutely has to answer and it needs to be clarified what happened. I fully agree with you that it is extremely important for the status of the Croatian people and its development to be unlimited and that the Croats simply have rights as well as two other peoples because this is the basis on which only Bosnia and Herzegovina alone can survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79862	Thank you. Five minutes on behalf of the HDZ club, the final Mr Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79863	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for taking your word and talking about this very important law. Thank you to all those who have supported this bill and to all of you who have come here today to vote. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, who is here with us all the time because today we will pass a law if God gives of national interest. The issue of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and colleagues is a question of national interest, but it is a matter in which there is primarily a question of connection, so a focus on each other, and a connection to each other, and having feelings for each other. I know that the team, the football team of Croatia, is now in one situation that is only expected to hit, or succeed. But let's ask the question where the football team of Croatia is on the world scale. Among the top 10 in the world. How? Or 12, anyway. How? So she took all the best players no matter where they are, all the best Croats no matter where they are, from Simunic from Australia, from Rakitiæ I don't know from Germany or what. It's one of the models that tells us on one symbolic level here to bring all of our people together no matter where they are and to play best as we know and can. Here we have heard from our counterparts about the position of Croats in Serbia, about the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, about the position of Croats as a national minority in general in other countries. We must say that we are proud that the Republic of Croatia has adopted such standards and that it has such standards towards national minorities in Croatia. We expect the same from those in European countries. We also expect this under the law, according to the Croats as the sovereign people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's something that can't be questioned. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ club invites all representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament to consult on this important issue, so we need full support. The issue of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is not a question of parties, nor may it be, it is a national issue and it is therefore important that all those presently present at the gallery, or somewhere near the Parliament, replace their political uniforms nationally, to enter this one in the Assembly, dress up Croatian uniforms and vote for this law, because it is indeed of national interest. Finally, I would finish my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club in the following words. Below the hour stands a small inscription, you see here on the wall, and on it is the renovation and editing of this assembly where we sit, regardless of these pleasant chairs or worse on other pleasant chairs in the audience, they restored Croatian emigrants and emigrants from Australia, Europe and North America in 1995, so let us respect these people. Let us go down and vote for this law, and benefit all of us and the Republic of Croatia in the finality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79864	Thank you. On behalf of the Government and the Proposer, Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79865	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate in which there were no dissonant tones, in which we all agreed together that it was a law which we are also fulfilling our constitutional, but also a moral commitment towards Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia, and I would like to stress on behalf of the promoters that for the first time in these 20 years it is a law, an approach which in a comprehensive way systematically, structured, but also realistically defines this issue. For the first time, we clearly define the specificities that the Republic of Croatia develops in relation to Croats living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to Croats who are minority in European countries and Croats who have been diaspora in either European or world countries in which they have gone over the past hundreds of years. They can support almost everything I heard in the debate, as regards Croats living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are a constituent people there, they must be an equal people, and it is an obligation for any Government of the Republic of Croatia to support their efforts to ensure their constitutionality, to ensure their equality, not only on paper, not only in documents, but in real life in their political representation, in their representation in the means of public information, in culture, science, sport, health and all other segments of society and state. That battle lasts, it's not won, but it's not lost. The Croats are numerically the smallest, but behind them is the moral right to equality and constitutionality, but also the politics of the Republic of Croatia, in particular our support will strengthen the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, and right here we see the strongest chance to improve the position of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because they are the most constituent people who should represent the strongest element, the strongest constitutional people who stand for European values, in our opinion and the strongest, and the greatest chance for Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Croatian government and Croatian diplomacy will do everything in our power to help the status of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina be better, we are in constant contact with all the important protagonists of the international community, it is important to know when it comes to the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole, that there is no consensus among the main representatives of the international community, which in many ways makes it difficult to find a final solution. But once again, I want to repeat the Republic of Croatia is firmly behind Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, firmly behind their fight for equality, a constitutionality that will not only be formal, but will be real and visible in everyday life. As for Croats who are minorities in neighbouring countries and in other European countries, we have signed contracts with almost all countries where Croats live on protection of minorities, in some countries the situation is really excellent, we as a state can show daily that our concern for minorities is indeed one of our priorities, and we have the moral right to ask other countries to treat Croatians equally. Our goal in the next period is to ensure the minority status of Croats in Slovenia and Kosovo, as well as that the rights of Croats in their fullness are respected in the Republic of Serbia, which unfortunately we have seen in the past few weeks, particularly regarding the census, that they are under constant pressure, that they are exposed to physical violence, and I hope that this situation will change over time. On our part, we'll do anything to make it so. As for Croatians who are diaspora, I remember first what happened at the beginning of this week, we had a large economic forum and I personally participated in a panel dedicated to the investments of Croats living outside Croatia. The panel was attended by some of the most prominent members of our people who invested in Croatia, who have plans to invest in Croatia and someone mentioned by speakers that it is extremely important to work on the economic strengthening of the Croatian component and in BiH, but also in other countries where they live because, of course, through the economy, through the strong economic position of Croats and their position within the societies and countries in which they are. I would therefore repeat that once again, by joining the EU, we will strengthen our international position, thus strengthening and caring for Croats living in other countries outside Croatia, that, of course, by positioning Croatia and full membership in the EU, and the attractiveness for returning Croats living outside Croatia by strengthening their standard of living, by strengthening international reputation, all the progress of the Republic of Croatia will certainly be a good magnet that will attract one part of our people to return to the Republic of Croatia. I thank everyone for the debate. I am sorry that today's debate was not attended by representatives of SDP, HNS and other parties who obviously put their particular party interests ahead of this great national interest, who put their particular party interests above the concerns of protecting the positions and interests of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia, but then let them not be angry when they will instigate some associations at times when Croats living outside Croatia experienced as enemies and those who considered people who did not welcome in Croatia and who considered them in some way and their enemies. I believe that is not the case today, but unfortunately, they have sent a message that is certainly not good for us who are here, but not for Croats living outside Croatia. Thank you very much again and I am convinced that the Croatian Parliament will give the majority of votes support to this law. Thank you very much. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-14-0.u79866	Thank you, Vice President and Minister Jandrokovic. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the proper conditions are met. We move on to the Final Bill on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. This was a second reading, P.Z. No. 857th Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. Score. It's 77 votes unanimously, and I'm particularly pleased to see this. The final draft of the law has been adopted.
