ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72725	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening a session with a debate on - - Final proposal of the Law on Referendum, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 784 Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, local and regional (regional) self-government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by MP Zvonimir Mršić. The Minister of Management Davorin Mlakar will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Before I state the most significant elements of this law, allow me to refer to the debate that was held on committees, which Vice President Shakespeare has already mentioned. The Government therefore agrees with the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, that this law does not go into emergency procedure, but to discuss in two readings, so that we can correct any shortcomings in that time between the two readings. Similarly, we would come up with a text that would be as little as possible to comment on, or text that would satisfy everything that was said in the debates, and in particular so that we could at the same time discuss the proposal for a referendum law, and the issue that remained key when this law was discussed, and this is the question in which the procedure for resolving municipal mayors, mayors and mayors would be carried out in the future. Here I would say again in the introduction of this law, this law does not regulate the procedure for the resolution of mayors, mayors and mayors, this procedure is fully regulated by another law, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and just... The provisions of the Law on Referendum to the procedure for implementing the referendum, which will be governed by this law, and I say the procedure to be resolved by the mayors, mayors and mayors, which will be the content of the proposal, the Government's proposal, will be one new institute, which is an impeachment, no longer to be resolved by them in the referendum, but by the process of impeaching them from their duties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now I would only say the most significant thing about the Law on Referendum before you has changed the name of the law that has so far regulated this area, it was once called the Law on Referendum or still applicable to the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional (regional) self-government, because it regulated some other forms of clarifications that remain resolved by the Law on Local, and we do not think that they should be particularly regulated by this law. The second or most important thing we should have taken is that this law is an obligation to comply with the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so we have entered into this law everything that is subject to the amendments to the Constitution, which is where it is decided in the referendum, so that they are the same diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia in the countries in which our citizens reside, as well as voters who have their residence in the Republic of Croatia, but at the time of the state referendum, they are found outside the borders of the state, they exercise the electoral right at polling stations in the headquarters of diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia in the foreign state where they are located, or by other means by law. What may be one of the significant papers of this law in relation to the solutions we have proposed so far, which is that we extended the deadline in that previous phase of holding the referendum, when the signatures for holding the referendum are collected, until now it has been 15 days, and there have been a lot of major objections that it is technically almost impossible to collect the required number of signatures within that short time, so we extended that deadline for the state referendum to 30 days. In more detail, this law also regulates the voter's declaration of the need for both state and local referendums. What has also proved to be a lack of the law so far, is the obligation to present a request for a referendum which was not and is not prescribed by the current law, so that we have now set a deadline in which, after the signatures have been collected, the one actually in charge of the implementation of the previous procedure is required within 3 days of the expiry of the deadline for the collection of their request for holding a referendum, together with those collected signatures, to deliver to the competent authority which decides to call the referendum. What is still a newspaper compared to the existing solution, it is a restriction that has been set up so far to re-schedul a referendum on the same issue. So far, it has been six months, and now the ban on re-scheduling the referendum would extend to one year. What I would like to say in conclusion is that this prompted discussions on all committees, that you should bear in mind, that the procedure for the resolution of municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors was resolved by other law, that this law and which was further in force, in the manner in which the resolution was regulated, what was pointed out to be the problem, or the lack of proposals, is the fact that the municipal council, or the town council or the county assembly, made a decision to call the referendum, that one-third of the council was authorised to submit a proposal to its representative body for calling a referendum, but making a decision remains as regulated by that law, that the majority of all councilors were required to submit a proposal to their representative body for calling a referendum, so there are no amendments, so that the decision to make it remains as far as possible and so far as to be regulated by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72727	Thank you. The committees? Legislative, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72728	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Immediately on behalf of the SDP club, I can express my satisfaction that such an important law as the Law on Referendum is adopted in a regular procedure. So, not in one reading, so enough time is left for a public debate to find an appropriate measure for the use of referendum institutes at both national and local level. In fact, the Law on Referendum is the law when representatives of citizens in the form of laws return or allow citizens' initiative and citizens to resolve certain issues directly under this law. It's an institute that has to be arranged very precisely so that what happened to us with the referendum on the Labour Law doesn't happen. So that is a very important question for the whole of democracy in some society. That is why the SDP club supports the adoption of the law in 2 readings. To find the measure between the need and the decision-making requirements at the referendum and the need to be systematically addressed in representative bodies is the task, the permanent task of the representative body at either national or local level. The second thing I'm saying right now, this alignment with the Constitution is actually in law prescribed by the Constitution itself and nothing's been worked out. This is very important for Article 6, in fact, the provision of Article 88 is prescribed. The Constitution, and it is not attempted at all, to elaborate on what other issues are, which may be considered important for the independence, unity and survival of the Republic of Croatia. This could always cause doubts, doubts and recommendations in practice, so it would be good to at least notify them as a basis for discussion if it can't already be in the form of a norm. It is very important for the prominent, and this is already the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system in its conclusions and proposed to the Government. For example, Article 3(2) provides that a referendum other than Croatian citizens, in a local referendum, with the exception of Croatian citizens, can also be attended by citizens of EU member states residing in the area of local units or regional units. According to the view, such a formulation would make it impossible for a European standard to be implemented. That citizens of EU countries decide and vote in a referendum on a local, local referendum, as they generally do not acquire the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia or their residence in the area, but rather gain residence. That is why it is foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it is one of the newspapers in the latest novel of the Constitution. When it comes to questions about the state referendum, I repeat that we have rewritten the provision of Article 87 from the Constitution, and we have not tried to consider other issues that could be found in the form of a state-level statement. It is also interesting to ask the question of Article 8, namely that a referendum in the county or city and the municipality may be opened by one-third of the representatives, or one-third of the representatives of the representative body of the unit of local or regional self-government. When I spoke at the introduction that it was very important to find a measure between, to say the need for citizens to directly decide and prevent various political exhibitionists from using the Institute referendum when it really is not necessary but to obstruct the government, I think that one third of the representatives in the representative body of the local self-government is too small, too mild, too liberal to open the question of the referendum. Of course we support, not only do we support but we are also asking that this question that the Government has announced will be settled in the Law on Local Self-Government, namely in the election and recall, namely the resolution of directly elected local and regional self-government leaders, so the mayor, mayor and mayor, will come to the debate in the second reading together with this law and that one of the conclusions be made by the Croatian Parliament to adopt both laws at the same time. Because in the event that there is no such legal gap, it could allow the launch of many procedures for the resolution of local self-government leaders, and then the Law on referendums, not the Law on the Election and Revocation of the Head of Local Self-Government, which is now announced, would apply. Secondly, on behalf of the club, I would also like to point out, Article 8 provides that the request for a referendum may be submitted by the executive authority in units of local self-government, and such possibility is not foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or even by an advisory referendum which is, in some way, confusing. It is true that local calling is more common and that there must be more liberal conditions when it comes to calling a referendum in local self-government units than at national level, but in any case, an advisory referendum should allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to launch. The issue is also a subject that must be very defined in our opinion, and it is not possible to raise the issue of referendums at both national and local level, so it would have to be stronger to define what these topics are. When it comes to technical details on the calling of a referendum, we think it is unacceptable that citizens who support or demand a referendum when giving their signature must have an OIB. This is Article 12 of the proposed Law. Our view that the OIB is only an identification number, not an identification document, according to the applicable regulations in the Republic of Croatia, the identification document is a ID card or passport. There are numbers on these documents and they should be sufficient for the validity of the signature of the support for the call for a referendum. True, it is absurd to ask the OIB for support to call a referendum, at the same time as the citizens' referendum is already called, not to give the person an identification number in order to be able to vote. The vote is a decision and there is a weaker condition for a citizen to approach and the support of the signature is more complicated and more difficult there is no reason for such a solution in the law. The important question is then that the article provides that all voters, all of the voters of the Republic of Croatia, are to be declared as voters, voters in the Republic of Croatia, are to be declared for one time in the referendum. This inaccuracy must not remain in the law because it could lead to a debate on when things are decided in the Republic of Croatia, and when all the voters of the Republic of Croatia decide on a matter of referendum. So, the main position of the Social Democratic Party Club is that the referendum and the law should be put into public debate, until then to draw up a draft or a proposal of a law on the election or recall of the head of local, regional and regional self-government, to give these two laws in the second reading of this law and the Law on the selection of local self-government leaders a joint position on the benches in the Assembly, and until then that interested institutions, citizens, civil society, may have the opportunity to consider the proposal for a referendum, to give their suggestions and observations in order to have better views of citizens in the second reading, and this Law tells them of their right to take the decision from Parliament and the representative body of local self-government, in order to find a measure between decision-making at the referendum and decision-making in the representative body, in a way that the questions which are without doubt can be taken into their own hands. So we support the adoption of the Law in principle along with the proposal for a law on the election and recall of the head of local and regional self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72729	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic's club of HDZ representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72730	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Referendum, the Croatian Democratic Community Club initially supports the fact that this legislative proposal is also going into a regular procedure in order to clarify the ambiguities that have arisen on this Bill proposal, above all the different interpretations of the Law, have caused a lot of heated reactions, a lot of misunderstandings on the Proposal for this Law and a lot of false interpretations that may be caused by those laws that we have so far, above all, the lack of understanding of the law when it comes to the impeachment of mayors, mayors and mayors who have been elected directly in the elections, and it is doubtful whether this Bill or Article 8 of this Proposal that 1/3 of the councils in city halls, city and municipal councils may raise the question of the mayors, mayors or mayors, and therefore the law on direct choice, but also the fundamental human rights and voting rights on the basis of the mayors of the mayors. First of all, the intention of this Law is not such that the law in some articles should be further elaborated and all the ambiguities should be clarified because we believe that in this proposal of the Law it was primarily intended to comply with the constitutional changes that we have brought here in the Croatian Parliament on 16 June 2010. It was necessary to adopt in accordance with the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of those laws which cannot be implemented directly and which applies first and foremost to the Law on referendums. This law is a fundamental democratic principle that gives voters, citizens, the will to plead independently, both on local affairs and on issues and on issues at the state referendum. Therefore, this Law should be interpreted in the context of harmonisation with the amendments to the Constitution and harmonisation with common law, i.e. the law of the European Union, because this Proposal for a Law on a referendum primarily allows voters in the Republic of Croatia to declare a referendum on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. In the beginning, it should be said that the proposal was not as publicly interpreted and that there should be no fear of this law causing political unrest and earthquakes because it is not the legislator's intention above all. In this proposal for a law that is before us, the name of the Law has been changed, so the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority, local, regional and regional self-government is changed to the Law on Referendum, hence the shorter and clearer name of the Law. As I said at the outset this Law is in line with the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so in the process of deciding on a referendum of voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, they exercise their electoral right in the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia abroad and in the country where they reside. Voters who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia but at the time of holding the referendum are found in one of the countries outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia also exercise their right to diplomatic consular offices of the Republic of Croatia in other countries. What is important for this bill, and this has been a lot of debate, and the amendments to the Constitution in the referendum under this bill have been decided by the majority of voters who have joined the referendum, regardless of how many voters have joined because, according to the previous legislative decision, most of the voters in the Republic of Croatia had to be approached. So here is the decision of most voters who joined the referendum, which is another democratic step in a constitutional principle that guarantees citizens democratic rights under the laws of the Law on Referendum. It is also prescribed in accordance with our obligations to join the EU for all EU citizens to declare themselves at a local referendum in the Republic of Croatia, so with the same right of reciprocity as for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when the Republic of Croatia becomes an EU member. Under this bill, it is proposed that as regards the state referendum, 10% of voters asked about the voter lists in the Republic of Croatia should be collected in order to raise the issue of the state referendum and 20% of voters in local and regional (regional) self-government units when it comes to the local referendum, with the initial interpretation of the significance of 1/3 of the council members in representative bodies who can, except mayors and mayors, raise the question of the referendum, but as we have said under the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, support the majority of representatives in the representative body. In more detail, this proposal for a law discusses the process of declaring the need for a national and local referendum, the deadlines prescribed from no longer than 15 to no more than 30 days in the case of a State referendum or a prescribed period of 15 days no more than 15 days in the case of a local referendum. It shall be prescribed by this proposal of the law and the time limit when it is necessary to submit the collected signatures. So far we've had a case that could have been 30 days, 2 months that could've waited. We had a case like that a few months ago. This proposal provides for a three-day period. More detailed rules are being discussed when the state referendum on the Croatian Parliament is under consideration, on the issue of voter verification, on the role of state bodies that are required to verify whether, in accordance with the Law on Referendum, sufficient signatures of voters are collected, the question of the role of the Constitutional Court when it comes to whether the referendum issue and the request is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, more detailed consideration is given to the role of the State Election Commission, the role of county, city and municipal election committees where this bill requires that these electoral bodies or election committees have a president, a vice president and 4 members, which reduces the number of members of the county and city election committees, these are of their own kind and savings, but also made easier procedures. Detailed deadlines for the referendum have also been developed. As regards the State referendum, this is 120 days, and for a local referendum 30 days from the date of notification if the competent state authorities are requested to verify whether all the conditions for calling a referendum in the Republic of Croatia have been met. Given the particular importance of this legislative solution, the Law on the Referendum is an organic law and it requires the adoption of most of the votes of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In further consideration of the regular procedure of this legislative proposal, all the misunderstandings that have arisen on this legislative proposal will be brought into line. We consider it to be a law where we had a constitutional deadline for him to return to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible, and to remove the ambiguity, it will be inconclusive about this law because it is primarily the need and obligation of the Republic of Croatia to comply with this law so that we can join a referendum on our country's EU accession. We are witnessing that for about a month if everything is okay, and we have come to the end of the negotiations with the EU, and we believe that this law should be passed as soon as possible in order for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to exercise their fundamental right, which is that they plead on the accession of our country to the EU, as well as on all the legal issues and issues of local affairs as regards local and regional (regional) self-government and on state issues at the referendum. I therefore believe that we should agree together, regardless of the political signs, that this law is as high-quality as possible and as far as possible, and that we should allow our citizens to have a new democratic law and one really real political and any other way that citizens can make a direct statement about everything that concerns their daily life, but also about the control of their votes that they have given us in the elections, regardless of what political option it is, because the referendum is one fundamental democratic right that allows everyone to correct and decide together with the authorities on issues that are important for a common economic and social life. The HDZ Club supports the further procedure of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72731	Thank you. Club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72732	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Croatia has changed the recent constitution, and in order to succeed in the referendum clearly no longer requires a semi-half majority of all citizens. We now have some garden of referendums and it was only a matter of everything so that the referendum in Europe could pass and it was only a matter of days when such a single solution would be translated into the referendum law and when those same principles would be applied to local self-government. Among other things, here it opens up in this law and the issue of, say, the number of votes needed to replace the mayor, the mayor, the mayor. A short time ago, if I'm a good understanding, Mr. Secretary suggests a copernican turn. He says that the mayors, the mayors, will not change the basis of this Law on Referendum but the basis of the Law in the election of the mayor, mayor or other bodies of local self-government. However, it is clear that this Law on Local Self-Government should in any case be brought into line with this, let us call it the General Law on Referendum, not on 2, 3 or I do not know how many legal solutions there are entirely different proposals. So far in this country we have had the dare to say an absurd situation, that when I mention these mayors, mayors, parish mayors, almost no one could replace them because they were asked to be resolved by an absolute majority of 50% plus one vote of all voters. And now, according to this proposal, we have a situation that almost anyone can resolve them. It is clear that such a norm is harmful and that such a solution can only be suggested by those who have never worn the lists and who have never de facto participated with their name in any election. The key provisions of this Code are Article 8(2), where the referendum is said to refer to the proposal 1/3 of the representative body on the proposal of the mayor, mayor of the City of Zagreb, mayor or municipal chief, or to a proposal of 20% of the total number in the unit and Article 21, which says in the vote vote, directly by a secret vote and clearly logically. In the referendum, it is decided by the majority of voters who have joined the referendum. Imagine now, let's say this situation, that 1/3 of the representative body is launching a request for the resolution of a mayor, mayor, mayor. So we'll destabilize the entire local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in no time, I dare say. One of them will do it for us in Istria, the other one will do it for you in Slavonia and Dalmatia and a simple state that is destabilized anyway, not to say torn up, and now there will be what still works in some areas, and I mean local self-government. Equally, I don't think there's anything a referendum to call on the mayor, mayor or mayor's proposal. This right should always be left to the representative body, but then absolutely to launch the referendum that majority with 1/3 should raise to at least 2/3 of the members of that representative body. The referendum, I'm afraid, will be rarely used by the Institute and in the future, and therefore, in that particular initiation, I should achieve one representative will of those who have received such legitimacy from citizens in a local environment. I will once again say that those who have never worn the lists can play with both local self-government and state and the Parliament, but some other people have a lot of responsibility when it comes to these bodies. Once again, I will quote the provision of Article 21(2) to decide in the referendum most of the voters who have joined the referendum. So it's enough to theoretically raise 1, 2, 3, 5 citizens, and let's say with 2, 3 or 5 votes something can pass, something can be questioned, and on the other hand you have to keep in mind, for example. If we are already talking about a referendum on someone's resolution, that someone has been elected in two rounds with 50% of the votes that went to the polls, and now, theoretically, it could be resolved by 1, 2 or 3 votes. The referendum is hard for citizens to get out of the local elections. That's almost impossible. Get them out of there. That's why if a 50% +1 citizen comes to the referendum, I think it would be only such a referendum that would make sense. So 50% of the voters enrolled must come out so that something in the middle after that could be brought to life because the provision of Article 21(3) states that the decision, which is logically, is mandatory in the referendum. Everything else I think would be extremely unfair, except when it comes to the resolution of the mayors, mayors, mayors, etc. Why am I saying that? I think that here, when it comes to them, we should replace this majority of 50% of the +1 with as many votes as these people gained not in the first, or won, but in the second round. In fact, they don't get them, but how many people went to that election. In all other situations, make it 50% +1 because the referendum should be raised in extremely important issues. So, if in the second round in Istria for selecting one of the mayors, the mayor came out 45% of the total number of voters enrolled, then let it be a reference number so that someone can be replaced. You can't change someone's picklists from less. Second or how do I try to explain it, e.g. In one city you have 20,000 voters, in the second round there were 8721 voters, and then for the shift, it could be a referendum needed to come out 8721 voters. So it should be this reference majority, and that's where it should go clearly. For all other questions, in order for the referendum to pass, I propose 50% +1 of the number of voters enrolled. The problem in this law is also this information to call a referendum, so 20% of the total number of voters can collect these signatures and launch such an initiative. I personally think it's absolutely fine for something bigger cities, maybe county, but what about those small communities in which they live in these municipalities, like in Lannister 400 people or in some 700, 800, 1000 people, etc. Well, that 20% can be collected relatively easily, and we're going to have one permanent destruction of local self-government. I can't, I want to say, this law is meant to destroy local self-government, but to enable citizens to live up to a direct decision, so it cost what it cost, and that's why I suggest a different majority when citizens collect signatures. For example. in the middle of up to 1,000 people, make it the majority of 30%, for units up to 10,000, from 1,000 to 10,000 voters, make it the majority of 20%, for units up to 100,000, make it the majority of 15%, for those who count over 100,000 voters, and for the City of Zagreb, or for the state, if we want to bring the institution closer to the citizens, then let the referendum be launched, and the signatures of 5% registered voters. So let's try to think about some progress as well as pay, in principle, to facilitate the referendum, to bring it closer to all citizens, especially when it comes to these larger units, and for those who count 500, 700, 800, let's say, voters, I think we should raise that threshold because it really could turn into one serious abuse. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So, they write their name, last name, address, report their residence according to a valid ID card. Okay. Personal ID number of the OIB, and are signed personally. Just so those imported sheets don't turn something that'll make it impossible to implement any referendum. We saw an attempt at a government manipulation in this latest union referendum when it made me cynical of the 700s collected and some thousand of those signatures almost annulled 700,000 signatures. In the end, all right, come on, and the unions themselves have given up on all of this because it's not surprising. They've given up everything, even a protest, I don't know those parades in high school, from the referendums, but not from the pact with the government. In fact, the opportunities in the country and they are more loyal to the authorities, and 850,000 people live on the verge of social endurance. And today I'm looking at the ship's workers. They don't have a job. I feel sorry for them. They should be able to survive, but they should be asked who you've always chosen. But let's let it go now. The government knows when it comes to the Constitution and this bill remains with these 10% when it comes to the national referendum. This sort of corresponds to the equivalent of the 450,000 voter signature. Well, we've seen it's not impossible. But if I advocate that local referendums, for example in the largest city of Zagreb can be called 5%. Maybe 5% should be considered when it comes to the state referendum. What Mr. Leko was talking about, I also think that the local referendum will always be a fundamental issue in the work of deciding local self-government. That ministry can always show any initiative clearly. But in any case, in my opinion, the referendum needs to be facilitated, making it a legitimate way of expressing the will of the citizens of one space. Clearly, it's all costing. Finally what doesn't cost? However, when it comes to the city of Zagreb or these large local self-governments or administrations, anyway, county etc. I think you really need to think that the percentage of signatures collected is something smaller. Because it's hard to imagine that out of I don't know, 220,000 people, it means 20% in Istria, let's say 45,000 people can collect signatures to initiate any referendum. So, once again, I'm up for something less in these numbers. At least 10%. And that would be about it. So let's try to make the referendum really come alive, but also, in those smallest environments, that referendum is not being abused.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72733	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to make a very short correction to an incorrect assumption. There was an excess of incorrect allegations. But Mr. Cain, we're not at the beginning of a referendum debate, we're at the end. We have brought changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Mr Cain spoke as if the former Article 86(4) required a different majority for the referendum. New amendments to the constitution require the majority of voters who have joined the referendum. So it's too much to talk about something we must have slept through. Well, we've brought constitutional changes. You've made a different solution about most when it comes to voting in a referendum, and all the other issues that we need to solve are the questions we're dealing with right now in the end. We're not at the beginning, we're at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72735	Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72736	That's why I said that... Most of them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72737	I'm trying. [[Intruder: Microphone on.]] So one of the allegations I wanted to correct was corrected by a colleague. So, this law cannot introduce a larger majority, actually the validity of going out to the referendum, but that's what constitutional changes are written about. And those who voted for those changes are now seeking a return to the previous solution. A little strange, but another incorrect quote. The unions gave up the referendum. The unions didn't give up the referendum. And the implementation of this referendum made it impossible for the Parliament to address the Constitutional Court, which concluded that no assumptions had been met for the opening of the referendum. And all of you who have supported Parliament's decision to address the Constitutional Court have made it possible for this referendum never to occur. Don't blame anyone else for the downfall of that referendum now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72738	HNS representative club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richemberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72739	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the motionors, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say on behalf of the HNS and HSU Club that it is good that the motioner has given up an emergency procedure on a proposal from the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution. In fact, the fact is that in the drafting of this bill, the code of consultation with the interested public was not respected and the fact is that in relatively short time the proposal for this law was made available to the public, so far the proposal with its solutions has caused a whole series of reactions and observations and associations of municipalities and cities, as well as the most prominent government organisations in the Republic of Croatia. In this context, it is extremely important to leave space for public dialogue and also for the collection of all relevant remarks so that the text that will come and the second reading will contain such provisions that will leave as little doubt as possible, but which will be consistent enough not to cause public controversy or recommendations, which would endanger the character of the referendum as democratic institutions themselves. Maybe that's where it's supposed to come from, so it's a referendum, and why it's important. In all democratic societies, the referendum is one of the most important institutions of the democratic system, it is a form of direct democracy, i.e. the form of a direct declaration by citizens, a particular voter on certain issues, and it has been of the highest interest to the state, such as its association or disunity at supranational or supranational levels, or it was just one of the changes in the standards that a part of society operates on. Similarly, the referendum is also subject to, as an institution of democratic direct expression to certain manipulations, i.e. primarily by the pressures of populist policies, which try to impose a referendum on certain solutions to the majority, or which, in some societies, is also a very promising solution for which most people are represented, but which are definitely below each level of rights acquired, standards acquired, especially in the field of human rights. In this respect, each democratic state has certain restrictions, which are defined on which the referendum issues cannot be implemented. It is also good luck in Croatia, and we have also defined what these are issues that cannot be put on the referendum, because it would mean actually slipping society into a non-democratic past. The referendum itself does not guarantee the democracy of a society. We have witnessed for decades the practices of relatively frequent referendums in which citizens were determined and decided first and foremost on the engagement of their couples, their money, these are famous referendums defining issues of local self-dependence. So Croatia has a rich referendum past in this sense, but this does not mean that in that time-share Croatia was democratic. What is certainly interesting is that Croatia has not actually had a referendum institute as a commonly used institute since it has considered itself a democratic state, based on a multi-party parliamentary democratic system, which it has practiced. We had one single, it's a referendum on state independence, we had one failed attempt to hold a referendum, it's a famous referendum on the Labour Act, and we only have one that we know is completely lookin', maybe even by the end of this year, and it's a referendum on joining the European Union. Why is that? So I think the reason lies primarily with regard to the social political elite and the legislator in the last 20 years according to the ideas on which the local one rests, and the local self-government that I don't even speak. So we have witnessed that in the last 20 years, once a very developed local self-government, which has also been one of the important valves of practicing direct forms of democracy, i.e. direct forms of representative democracy, completely suffocated, detached, or humiliated. This was reflected in its own way and in the functioning of local self-government, so today we are really witnessing a whole series of problems that do not only arise from the state being highly centralised, or that 90% of the funds collected in this country are available in the government, or at the centre, and only a tenth of the local, regional self-government level, of which half of them fall to the city of Zagreb alone. So it's not just a testimony, it's a testimony and what levers exist in the hands of local, regional self-government to decide on important issues for the standard and future of citizens, from health, social protection, education and beyond. We have completely unresolved areas, and it would be worth a consistent approach and a high level of responsibility for the political elite to approach a careful analysis of the situation and reforms of the entire local and regional self-government. And so there would be probably a different view of the legislator as a basis, as the basis of democratic decision-making, and then the level of mistrust towards a citizen as such would be much, much lower than the current state of affairs where it should not be covered, many from local to national level view it as a re-methylative factor, which would actually decide on behalf of the political elites, and it did not add up to it, so it should not be allowed to do so. The spirit of this bill is primarily due to the fact that a fundamentally long-rooted mistrust towards citizens, but also because it is not respected, but because of mentioning the code of consultation with the interested public is actually saying that the legislator of this law is very untrustworthy of the institution of the referendum. He may have concrete reasons for that, but the fact that this mistrust arises, or is seen from a whole series of proposed solutions. So let's say that one of the most escalating is this unresolved question of deadlines that are being set, or a situation that not one way to define and treat so-called. State referendums and referendums at local level, where in all possible ways it is actually difficult for the local referendum to be initiated and maintained, and this is also witnessed by, for example, Articles 16 to 19 of this proposal of the law, which regulates the issues of deadlines. So you can see, for example, that when a decision is made at the level of the Croatian Parliament, which is practically constantly meeting, i.e. a permanent session, where there are actually breaks in the session relatively short, there is a very common deadline of 120 days, and in the unit of local and regional self-government where, as a rule, representative bodies meet once every 2 or 3 months, there are deadlines down to 30 days. Furthermore, the proposer says that this law does not address the issue of launching and holding a referendum in the event of recalling the head of local, regional self-government, i.e. the mayor, mayor and mayor, and that this issue will be resolved by amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. Is that good? How good it is for a consistent legal system to resolve the same issue, and the referendum is one subject, consistent as such, in several legislative regulations. That's not good. The referendum as an institution and as a set of procedures should and must be regulated by one regulation to be as clear, unequivocal, transparent and understandable as such. The fact, i.e. the impeachment institute, can be elaborated in detail by the Law on Local Self-Government, of course, that is not at all controversial, but the referendum is only one of the forms in which the entire recall procedure can be carried out. So he's not necessarily the only one, he's just one of them. In this regard, we see reasons for resolving this issue to another reading and for defining here exactly under what conditions and how a referendum is conducted in the event of the initiation of the recall procedure by the head of local and regional self-government. This existing solution that we are kindly taking towards the promoter as a lapus, which is that one third of the members of the representative body are actually making a decision to launch a referendum of such and similar character is something that is completely pointless. But we need to be very, very careful and very, very careful when we talk about it and when we make final words in these situations and define the final proposals. Because this is a very sensitive area. The fact is, therefore, that Croatia is living in a new model of choice by local and regional self-government leaders who have not yet fully let roots in the sense that all institutions have sat down there as we have been legislators and were planning to do so. The fact is that there are many unresolved issues left, it is the fact that in the final debate on the legal text of direct choice there has been neither waist nor logic and that there has been a whole series of empty spaces left that today provide headaches or representative bodies or local self-government leaders. Because, as it stands on one side, the fact that the mayors, mayors and mayors are indeed directly elected by the voters and have original legitimacy cannot be challenged by members of the representative bodies, because they were not appointed by someone else but were elected by the citizens. In this sense, you should be careful, but you should resolve those issues that exist today as major problems, and that is what happens if the mayor, the mayor or the mayor does not propose a draft budget in time. Under the current rules, therefore, the representative body is paying out which, if it does not adopt by 31 March, the final text of the budget, i.e. the provisions on budget implementation, in fact, meet the legal conditions for disbanding the representative body, and the mayor, the mayor or mayor may propose and withdraw their proposal 5 times. So it's a space for political manipulation. But we must also be aware that there is still a great danger over the representative bodies called political corruption. We know very well that there are a whole series of cases, not just where it's so-called. the co-habitation of one majority in the representative body, and the other political omen among local and regional self-government leaders already in other cases where the representative body is an ideal target of political corruption, the purchase of mandates and affections. We must be aware of this, and this risk must be reduced as much as possible. We are not in favour of that, so one third can decide on the fate of mayors, mayors or mayors, but we are in order to very carefully resolve this question whether by a two-thirds model, whether the model of citizens' consent can also be set at 20%. So, if the representative body wants to change the head of local self-government, let him go and ask 20% of the support of his own voters first. And it can be one of the clauses that will actually protect both of them and raise the level of democratic decision-making. But we certainly didn't want this issue to be solved over the knee. And certainly we are not for the sole provision of the referendum law to address the problems of the functioning of local self-government because that is not the case. We too must be aware that this box is full of problems, and once we open it, we will have to face many open issues that finally need to be resolved on the basis of good practice and responsibility of the legislative body. There will be an opportunity, of course, to discuss this bill further because the proposer has agreed to a second reading and a regular procedure. We call on the proposer to include the interested public to engage the interested public in the month ahead of us or months ahead of us until the final law is passed, or to propose a final proposal to engage the interested public and associations of cities and also to join the county. Likewise to NGOs, but also to enable people from political parties to make their comments and suggestions on how certain of these outstanding issues should be addressed at different levels and in different ways. In this sense, the HNS-HSU club will support this law in its first reading, but unless these important things change, I doubt we'll be able to stand behind a solution that looks like what we have on the table today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72740	Thank you. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72741	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. And we at the HSS Club think it's a good thing it's accepted that this law goes to another reading. We think that in the first reading, here are a series of observed details that we think is good to do and fix and improve the law. Croatian citizens have the right to express their position in the referendum in both state and local. This right is also guaranteed by the Constitution, and this legislative proposal that we are discussing today determines the procedure for its calling and implementation itself. Going to the referendum is a basic form of direct democracy and therefore there must be assumptions that citizens can thus express their views on certain issues and therefore it is necessary to regulate this area, and in line with last year's constitutional changes as well as the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In the drafting of this legislative proposal, part of the provisions of the existing law have been taken over, some are in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but also with the provisions of other applicable laws, and some new ones have been incorporated into the text. In this regard, we are positive that the consequence of the amendment to the Constitution is that the right to decide on a referendum is extended to Croatian citizens who turned 18 and who have general voting rights whether they have residence in the Republic of Croatia or not. While Croatian citizens without residence in Croatia will have the right to decide in a state referendum at polling stations in diplomatic and consular representations in the country they live in. So far, most voters who voted have decided in the national referendum, but on the condition that most of the voters listed in the list of voters of the Republic of Croatia have joined the referendum, unless the Constitution has decided otherwise on certain issues. It was similar for the local referendum. It was decided by most voters who also voted on the condition that the majority of voters enrolled in the list of local, regional or regional self-government voters in which the referendum was called. The amendment of the Constitution sets out a unique criterion for deciding in the referendum most of the voters who have approached it, and this has also been translated into this Legislative proposal. The proposal for a law is also in line with the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision and it is prescribed that only the consent of the referendum issue can be assessed through the system but not with the Law. It is therefore proposed if 10% of the total voter requests a referendum at the request of the Croatian Parliament the Constitutional Court determines whether the contents of the referendum issue are in accordance with the constitution and whether the assumptions for its calling have been met. A more detailed voter declaration procedure on the need to call a national and local referendum, and we believe it is good to extend the deadline for the voter's signing of the national referendum from 15 to 30 days. The conduct of the Croatian Parliament shall also be prescribed upon receipt of a request for a national referendum or representative body of the unit of local, regional, regional self-government and for the calling of a local referendum and the deadline set for its registration. The local referendum in the county, the city of Zagreb, the city and the municipalities as this is proposed is called upon to propose 20% of voters from the total number of voters in the county, the city of Zagreb, the city, the municipality and the issue of an advisory referendum which can also be state, local, and it is proposed that the Croatian Parliament can call an advisory referendum on other issues from its own part-round except for a proposal for a change of the constitution and a proposal of the Law, while the representative body of the unit of local, regional self-government can call an advisory referendum on issues from its own part. Also due to future membership in the European Union, it is necessary to create assumptions that citizens of another Member State of the European Union can directly participate in the conduct of local affairs through a local referendum under the same conditions as Croatian citizens and in a manner prescribed by the provisions of the Law governing the exercise of the rights of nationals of other Member States of the European Union in elections for representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government proposed by this Act. In addition to everything we consider to be good solutions, we at the HSS Club also want to warn about how everything needs to be done to prevent any abuse of these rights granted. In this regard, we believe that it is good for this legislative proposal to go to second reading in order to further improve and define some of its provisions more precisely through a broad discussion. First of all, we consider Articles 8 and 21, which we hold to be examined or to determine the consequences of their implementation can and can be caused. In Article 8(2), the referendum is proposed to refer to the proposal of one third of the members of the representative body, but that no decision by the representative body of the unit of local self-government and the regional self-government is made by the votes of 1/3 of the members, the question is whether the decision to refer the referendum to a proposal of 1/3 of the members of the representative body is indeed the best solution. Furthermore, Article 21 as proposed opens the space for a decision on the shift of mayors, mayors of Zagreb, mayors or municipal mayors to make fewer votes than the number they have chosen. Whose previously expressed will would be questioned by the voter. We know that we have before us a referendum on Croatia's accession to the European Union and that the adoption of this law will create the necessary legal framework for its implementation. But we at the Club of the Croatian Peasants' Party think it is good to take a little more time and proposed text in those parts that I mentioned do and improve, or more precisely, determine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72742	Thank you. At 10.38, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72743	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. I would be embarrassed to stand here today in front of the Croatian Parliament, before representatives of the Croatian Parliament and to be a member of the Government. Because this proposal for a law sent by the Croatian government to the Croatian Parliament shows that the Croatian government chosen by the Croatian Parliament is afraid of Croatian people and Croatian citizens, which is not surprising because this kind, all of this related to the referendum, because this kind of policy that led the country to the map Let's move on, to the bottom of the sink to huge credit debts, almost 90 billion euros, up to 350 thousand unemployed, to the collapse of the economy, to 100 thousand workers who work and do not receive the salary of about a million pensioners of whom 800 and a few thousand barely survive 5 days a month in terms of pension. Who closes birthplaces according to certain expert committees, which connects the ergels, promises, does not keep promises, which fears the minds of the Croatian people or thinks 50% plus 1 voter will not go to the referendum. This is also fear, this bill's proposal of a possible failure, answers citizens to a referendum that should be by the end of the year, because this referendum that is related to the Labour Act will certainly never be held, which is related to Croatia's entry into the EU as one single or only possible pre-election card of the party or coalition at this time in power. Another thing about this referendum, and I am saying that today would be a shame to stand here after a unanimous decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and after an unimplemented public debate, to stand here in front of parliamentary representatives and to talk about the fact that, thanks to the possible and certain twitches within the HDZ through the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, we have come to realize that such a missing law should go to another reading, and here I do not think that we should go to another reading, but it is urgent to draw it up from the procedure to this debate of clubs and after the representatives, to draw up a new bill and open a broad public debate to bring the Constitution and the Law on the referendum together. The issue of directly elected local self-government leaders must definitely be related to the Law on Referendum but also to the legal provisions relating to the Law on Units of Local Self-Government. The question of impeachment must be related to the number of voters not to the number of councilors in the city, municipal councils or county parliaments or in the City of Zagreb Assembly. We have been very liberal so far and in some new laws on some new proposals we show that we will begin to shut ourselves down etc. and the Units Act lo, the Kaalna Self-Government. The impeachment issue must be related to that 50% plus one voter. If some local self-government leader was he from HDZ, SDP or is now not doing his job, be assured that citizens are not sheep, although some treat them as sheep for haircuts, they will not stay at home in front of television but will go to the referendum and determine the fate of such local leaders who are doing bad. This cannot be the number of votes they received in the first or second round, but it must be the majority of the electoral body that has to go to the referendum, and of the majority of what the result will be, it will be the fate of local leaders. One thing that binds to the referendum and I assume the new Law on impeachment of directly elected local self-government leaders must also be tied to representative bodies. I don't think we should invent hot water or expresso coffee here, but we should simply take over if we want to go to the EU to take over these fluids of democracy from the EU where it's definitely clear, that if 1/3 or 2/3 of the councilors asking for a referendum, and the referendum fails, or the head of local self-government is not being removed, then the representative body of the local self-government is definitely going to be disbanded. That is what I have proposed, and unfortunately this is not what the proposer predicted at the Committee on Local Self-Government. The second question and the illogicalities that are related here is that this is only you can correct incorrect allegations, I wish there were replicas so that I could answer a second question and a series of questions that are related to such a missing law, are related only to the conduct of the referendum. Given that the referendum is now talking about a referendum for the recall of the head of local self-government is a mini-local election, which, if such a law or such provisions fear so-called. The local sheriffs will remain in place then, many local self-government units will go into one terrible deficit because every six months or a year they will have elections. That's what we say, how someone gets something up and does it. It's a question of campaign itself, campaign costs, it's a question of election committees, how they're drawn up, whether they're party-based, whether they're non-party, it's a question and deadlines themselves. Because this law can't make it right if something can't be done. This is a question of the deadlines itself if there is no time limit in this bill for the Ministry of Administration to respond to certain requests within a certain period. And there is already a political resemblance where the issue of incompetence is to be raised, or recall, for the leader who is from the ruling party, and by an urgent procedure, as has been the case so far, to address the issue where the local self-government leader is not from the ruling party. Finally, some in this House, and this is the answer to constitutional changes, some in this House voted for constitutional changes, some wanted gods and had to raise their hands for legal personality, territorial integrity and a special way of financing. I hope that those who will correct incorrect allegations that they will be recognized very quickly, some have been against in this Croatian House of Higher Democracy against the creation of so-called. SAO Krajina. It was that constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. But some in this House were also against the provisions of the amendments to the Constitution that are related to the referendum. Some were in favour of conducting a referendum on the Labour Act, and some did everything to avoid the referendum. There was a circus here with the signatures of almost a million people in Croatia, a million workers who brought their signatures here and hoped to reach the referendum. And I say that there is no need to fear the referendum, and at least the Croatian citizens. they best showed it in 1990 when they went to the referendum and said their loud and clear for independent Croatia. And I suggest that this law simply be done by the ministry and that it create a new bill that will seriously refer here to the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72744	Thank you. Three corrections. First Mrs. Representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72745	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I don't know who gives his colleague Vinkovic the right, but he takes it himself, to tell himself a series of lies. Among other things, I will correct only one thing, which is that this government and the government of Croatia are afraid of smart people. No, he's not afraid at all, he's not even afraid of you or your co-workers or this kind of act because those people who think healthy minds can't speak and behave at all in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72746	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72747	It is difficult to correct Agent Vinkovic and it is a pity that there is no replica. It's incorrect that the government is afraid of citizens. On the contrary, the Croatian government has agreed as a proposing to co-operate with the parliamentary committee that this law is going to a second reading to discuss this issue thoroughly. It seems to me, Mr. Vinkovic, that you are afraid because you are a real phenomenon in politics, chosen on the SDP list as SDPs to move to the ultimate, opposite side as HDSSB, it is a phenomenon in politics and I protest this kind of expression in the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President, because this is an unacceptable way. No matter what the illusions are, it is unacceptable for a Croatian representative to express himself in this way in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72748	And Mrs. Agent Anna Lovrin, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72749	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, it is incorrect that the proposal for this law shows that the government is afraid of citizens, so that only someone who has not really read this law can say that, and who has no idea what the last constitutional changes have established, because it is also the constitutional changes, and the proposal for this law has eased the referendum conditions, made it possible for citizens to access the institution of the referendum as an institution of direct democracy, and in addition, the referendum in Croatia was not in 1990 but 1991. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72750	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72751	It is an article relating to the insult of MPs. My Rules of Procedure are in Zenica, so I don't know exactly which one it is. I didn't mean the thing you meant. And as for fear, about who's afraid, I'm the least afraid, and especially the least of them from HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72752	And another similar probably. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72753	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Ms Dubravka Shuica, therefore, injured and laminated as to how many SDP and HDSSB are some different parties, and I would say that SDP and HDZ are the most similar parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72754	Is that a violation of the Rules of Procedure? ... Maybe, but in Zimbabwe or somewhere far away. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Maybe in banana county. [[Upadica Grubišić: In the banana state.]] Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. ... Come on, guys, calm down. You've got time to move on later. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So when I read this bill first, I wondered where this miracle of the law came from. It is an organic law that should enable the citizens of this country to apply the constitutional law referred to in Article 87. The Constitution and that in two ways. Direct democracy, when citizens without the influence of representative bodies at any level make a decision for them and can always come to it in two ways: either a referendum sets out the power or a referendum of citizens' demands. As so far all the authorities, I think of all the governments, all the presidents of the Republic and all the calls of Parliament, referred to the right of citizens to a referendum. No constitutional amendments have called a referendum on the proposal of the President of the Republic, the Government or the Parliament itself have called a referendum. The second condition for calling a referendum is the bill. No President of the Republic or Government has called a referendum in any draft law in Croatia. And the third option is some other issues from the parliament's district or the representative bodies of local, regional self-government. One single referendum that was called '90s. and spent '91. And by response and by vote, the proof is that citizens are able to judge and make the right decision. I haven't been able to count the number of constitutional changes since the '90s, but there were at least 5, 6. The number of laws is probably more than 15,000. Why, since not once at all, no parliamentary majority considered it necessary for citizens to make a statement about constitutional changes whatever they were, and they were very significant, very large. And in a panic ahead of the possible outcome of the referendum on entry into the European Union by constitutional changes, we have granted it great relief. If the authorities do not want a referendum, if the authorities are afraid of citizens because they are not discussing the referendum, then the constitution says they have the right to ask for citizens. E under the conditions laid down in the proposal of this law. The local referendum and to agree immediately with those, which is also the minister seems to have announced to me, if I understand it correctly, the Institute recalls the head of local and regional self-government must be regulated by a special law and it is a special institute. I'm glad that both the government and the minister came to my positions in '95, '96. And '97. the years when, in the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, I tried to push the Institute to recall not applying the Law on Referendum but as a special institute. Whether to write a new law or to supplement the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government with this special institute is completely irrelevant. But as soon as it needs to be discussed about this law then it can be separated, and if not, it must be joined together. So, a local referendum to be caused by citizens takes 20% of voters' signatures because it says in the Law on Local Self-Government. They only have 15 days to collect signatures. And now watch out, the signing organizers only have three days to verify the correctness of the signature and within three days have to hand over the signatures to the representative body or parliament. What places do they have the right to collect? You don't know. This is decided by the representative bodies of local self-government, for example in Zagreb, the secure place of signing will be the Office of Mayors from 9 to 11 o'clock. And for that they will demand compensation from the organisers as it was last time where some municipalities and cities asked the organisers to collect signatures for the referendum to charge for the use of the public surface. Mr. Minister, they're asking to pay 500 to 800 kuna. In this law you have to say what appropriate places are and that units of local self-government can't charge for it because they charged and asked to be paid. And write that it can't be in the mayor's office or mayor's office. This notion now used in law is gum obviously deliberately left behind. Now that the organizer collects the signatures of the representative body, he has 15 days to think about whether he'll request a check. Day 15 says he'll request a check from the state administration. What is the name of this government body in this country? Do we know or don't we? If we know how to get him into law school, and if we don't, then tell me we don't know what the government's body is. And then the representative body only determines the time limit for that body of the state administration to carry out the verification. Let's say six months. If they're as decent as they are, they'll give them 30 days. When he receives confirmation that all signatures are valid then he has 30 days to decide to call a referendum, and he must be held within the day of handing over the signature until the day of the local referendum six months. A referendum that does not take place within a reasonable 90-day period makes no sense, and all the deadlines you have set in this law are to prevent the holding of a referendum at the request of citizens. These are rudely stretching deadlines, vague terms, vague expressions that could be arbitration during the procedure itself. All that is above 90 days is the government's attempt or if such a law is passed to ban a referendum at the request of citizens at local level. When the state referendum is about 10% of the constitutional category, I welcome a 30-day extension of the deadline where citizens will be able to sign a request for a referendum. Where the representative bodies of local self-government are designated. One place in Zagreb and let's say one place for all of Rijeka and Primorje-Gorski County. You can't put such undefined terms and place in the law, with a charge of course and it will charge as some mayors sitting here in the hall, who asked to pay for it when they received a request for permission, for using the public area on which the stand was set up to which the citizens asked for a referendum. And then the organizer collects 500,000 signatures and has three days to check the correctness of the signature, three days. But the Parliament has 30 days to think about whether they're going to ask for the authenticity of the signature and the verification, so when they decide they want to set a deadline for the police or not, I don't know who. If it's minimally decent, it'll determine 60 days. So then there are 30 days of Parliament after it gets results to think about whether it will address the Constitutional Court. Then the Constitutional Court has 30 days to say what he thinks. And after the Constitutional Court has its opinion, it shall have 120 days to call a referendum from the day of the action to the date of the referendum of a minimum of 8 to 12 months under the letter of this law. We had the same referendum after 12 months, with a reminder of an even worse situation, that in the subject and even a proposal for a law in which a sufficient number of signatures have been collected, but this fiscal game with deadlines Parliament can adopt that law that is disputed for citizens. Because you have not accepted either in the Constitution, nor in this law a provision that I have then proposed and I repeat that it is the law and the law in which the collection of signatures and procedural actions are to be completed by the representative body and the Parliament cannot decide. Because otherwise there is no sense in the right of citizens to seek a referendum on the bill, and that the Parliament can adopt it either in the meantime, or in the matter of importance for the city or county, that the representative body may decide in the course of the action. And I end up with a warning again. Croatia is the only country and will be the only member of the European Union in which the Constitutional Court, with its own right at the end of the procedure when all of these actions are carried out, and in Croatia under this law no one will ever be able to request a referendum, then ultimately, the Constitutional Court, which says there are no assumptions for holding a referendum. In civilised states, the organiser first goes to the Constitutional Court with a referendum issue. He also answers when the Constitutional Court at the beginning confirms the referendum question no one can stop him anymore. So much for democracy, for example, in the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72756	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72757	Dear Mr. Lesar, you're quite right. I would like to know what these are mayors who do not give public space to work political parties or collect signatures for a referendum and want to charge for it. That'd be good to know here. This law indeed, you said it stretched like gum. But I'd say this is chewed and chewed gum. And with all these shortcomings that this law shows, I will point to one more, which is precisely the composition of those committees that will carry out the referendum, the question of the referendum question, who is the one who decides whether the issue is well written and the number of voters needed to succeed. And it has to be 50 plus one percent. As regards the referendum on independence of the Republic of Croatia, the decision was made as I recall in 1990 and the referendum could be assisted by the Vice-President of the Parliament. The 1991 referendum. My apologies to certain MPs. I wasn't thinking about that thing, I was thinking about the pressure, and I'm just telling my esteemed colleague's reserve that what he's saying is in the microphone, and he's talking about himself. And at the end of the term of office of Zoran Vinkovic, the mandate of Zoran Vinkovic is by law, and Vinkovic is not afraid of any referendum, nor of any overruling in the council or councilman, but is responding to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72758	On 17 May 1991, a referendum was held for independent Croatia, June 25, 1991. The Croatian Parliament made a constitutional decision on the sovereignty and independence of Croatia and a declaration declaring Croatia a sovereign and independent state, and on October 8, 1991. In the year, he made a constitutional decision on the end of state-law bonds. ... The decision to call a referendum was made in April of '91. A year. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Answer, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72759	A colleague of Vinkovic's, and according to existing regulations. Let me wait a minute. So, fellow Vinkovic, the request, the collection of signatures for the signing of the referendum is carried out by organisational committees under the current law and by the new one, and the answer to your question is sufficient to look at the existing decisions of the representative body of municipalities, cities and counties, i.e. cities and municipalities that regulate the right use of public areas for such civil initiatives. I don't know how it's regulated in your town, and whether in your decision, the city council has decided that it's free use. What is absurd is that such decisions were not made by representative bodies, but believe either the administrative departments or even the communal directors, because they received such powers from the mayor and the mayor of the municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72760	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72761	Dear Vice President, representatives of the ministry. So this law is one law that the Croatian Parliament should have already passed, since the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution obliges us to pass some laws within certain deadlines, including the law that will ensure that citizens can be asked directly in Croatia, it is obvious between the two electoral cycles on some important issues. Here, first of all, it is necessary to say that the referendum is a way of directly declaring citizens on important issues, and therefore the referendum law should be so well-conceived that it allows citizens to be asked first of all, to enable them in a way that the government decides to ask them or to decide to question the citizens themselves. So first of all, I want to draw attention here to making it possible for them. And secondly, to determine what important issues are, so that we really do not put ourselves in a position that at all levels, from local self-government units to national levels, we do not call national levels referendums, regardless of whether it will be done by the public authority or initiative on something that does not represent an important or important question for the level of referendum being called. Obviously, this law does not fit in an adequate way in either of those two tasks. First of all, we have a situation where the law is sent to the procedure by emergency procedure, and now, on the initiative of one of the boards of the Croatian Parliament, this emergency procedure is being removed. Furthermore, we have a situation that on one of the committees, and it was the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government we had an interpretation of the Ministry's representative that this law, for example, refers to a referendum called directly by the elected leaders, and now we have a situation that the minister says it was regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government, and information from the Committee on the Constitution has come to regulate this by some special law. So the question is, what are we talking about here today in this law, or what are we having a debate about? Are we having a debate on the draft law that she referred to in the Croatian Government's parliamentary procedure, or are we having a debate about what representatives and clubs and committees think might be written in that law? So definitely the debate on the original text of the law is not being held in this House today, because there are at least three interpretations about what the law says, and from the same ministry or committee, or what it does not say, or what it does not really refer to in that law. So my colleagues talked a lot about this, about the state referendum, in my court, and that was the opinion when we adopted the Constitution, I think it was necessary to make it possible for citizens to have a bigger initiative and make it easier for citizens to reach the national referendum. The democracy of one state or one society will indeed be evident when the government in Croatia is ready for the first time to hold a referendum on the citizens' initiative, and I think it is in the interest that all of us sitting in the Croatian Parliament now or sitting in the next or sitting in the next council in power or in the opposition, in the interest that we finally come to Croatia for the referendum to be called on citizens' initiative and that we will indeed show the citizens not to have this situation now, which is that we do not trust anyone anymore, that we have a disintegrated society and state, that citizens have neither trust nor power nor opposition, nor politicians, nor in any other institution, but that their vote is worth not only once in four years when they go out to the elections and round the list with candidates, or say that they have no one to vote but that their vote between that period in such a way that they can be asked and can be asked to be asked to be also inquestion. I think that all of us should set such a goal in front of ourselves and say ok, let's write a law and let's finally allow the citizens to have their initiative live and become full and enforceable in the Republic of Croatia. As long as it doesn't happen, any referendum law will be a dead letter on paper. And it will depend only on the will of the ruling majority whether or not they will implement the referendum and how much it will cost. Unfortunately, we had a situation when the government said that a referendum initiated by citizens costs 3 times more than it will cost a referendum to be called by the government's decision to join Croatia. So these are also some facts that we should think about when we tell citizens that they are the foundations of democracy and on which the democracy of a state or of a society rests. Now, we have a particular confusion about calling a referendum at the local level. We have a situation here that the Law on referendums prescribes a provision from the Law on Local Self-Government. And in the Law on Local Self-Government, we have 2 defined ways of conducting a referendum. One way is to conduct a referendum on important issues and another a referendum on the recall of the directly elected leader. Now, in this article on the recall of the directly elected head, there is an article 40B of the Law which states that the referendum on the recall of the directly elected leader applies to the provisions of the Law on Referendum and other forms of direct declaration. If what the minister says is true in the Law on Local Self-Government is said to call off the elected leader directly, and the law states that he is calling off the Law on the Referendum, then I ask if anyone here today can come out as a pay phone from the government's representative and say that today in Croatia the elected leaders are calling off directly. Second, how directly elected leaders of units of local and regional (regional) self-government will call off after the referendum law is passed. We, too, in the Law on Local Self-Government, have said that the referendum is addressed to the proposal of one-third of the council, to the proposal of half of the local committees and to the proposal of 20% of registered voters in the unit of local self-government. We have that provision rewritten in the referendum law. So why prescribe the Law on Local Self-Government in the Law on Referendum? I would like to remind you that we have changed the Constitution on how to choose leaders in local self-government units because we have made it possible for those who are not resident in the local self-government unit to vote in the elections for local self-government units, so now we will have a situation that more people can or more rights in the elections, and less rights in the referendums in these same referendums for local self-government units. So, on the basis of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, that right, as far as units are concerned, the elections in local self-government units have changed in a different way, hasn't it? And it has been expanded so that all residents, all EU citizens, can, if at that moment, be in the area of the local self-government unit. There's also a few technical questions here. So, the referendum is called by the representative body. We have a fiscal responsibility law. The representative body shall call a referendum and no funds are provided for in the local budget for the implementation of the referendum. If this happens, the mayor immediately falls under the influence of the Fiscal Responsibility Act because he simply spent money we do not have in the budget. The mayor may propose budget rebalancing although it is very short-term because the local referendum must be implemented within 30 days, the representative body may not accept such a draft budget. Or, on the other hand, the mayor doesn't have to propose budget rebalancing, so we won't have it in the budget and we won't, or there'll have to be a referendum, but simply someone will have to answer for it fiscally. So there are a whole series of very large, open questions about this referendum. Unfortunately, we are in the teat, and I'm afraid there will be no solution as citizens expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72762	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72763	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed representative of the promoter, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing a proposal for a referendum law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in the adoption procedure. The 2010 amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia have amended the provisions of the Constitution relating to the issues of the right to participate in the decision-making process in the national referendum and the way decisions are taken in the national referendum. A referendum on... and association is regulated by the rights of EU citizens in the Republic of Croatia after EU accession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the proposal for a referendum law is primarily proposed to bring the Constitution into line, which regulates the procedure for calling and implementing the referendum. An important newspaper is the name of the law itself, not only for practical application but also because the Constitution has prescribed that legislation be passed on the referendum while the direct participation of citizens in the management of local affairs is governed by special regulations. With this proposal, the right to participate in the decision-making process in the state referendum, all Croatian citizens aged 18 who have a general and equal right to vote regardless of their residence in the Republic of Croatia, which is certainly a good solution and a big newspaper. This proposal removes the current legal inequality, in particular as regards issues relating to how the referendum decision is taken, i.e. the number of votes cast in the referendum in order to ensure that the decision is valid. The amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia established a unique criterion for deciding in a referendum most of the voters who joined the referendum. It is also proposed that the Croatian Parliament and the representative body of units of local and regional, regional self-government can call an advisory referendum on other issues from their own region. In addition to this proposal, the call for a referendum shall be discussed in detail, the voter's request for a referendum, the conduct of the Croatian Parliament upon receipt of a request for a national referendum, the conduct of the presidential body upon receipt of a request for a local referendum, the decision to call a referendum, the decision to make a referendum, the decision to refer to a referendum, the bodies and powers of the body for the implementation of the referendum, the implementation of the referendum, the cost of implementing the referendum, the protection of constitutionality and the legality of the referendum. I believe that the motioner did well when he decided to resolve the issue of calling and implementing a referendum on their resolution, rather than this draft law, by amending and supplementing the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the City of Zagreb. You accepted that the proposal for a referendum law goes into regular procedure. I believe that this proposal brings about improvements in the legislative provision of the referendum in such a way as to elaborate the calling and implementation of the referendum, to remove the doubts and inaccuracies of the existing Law, and that the proposed provisions are in line with the amendments to the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, so that I will support the proposal for a referendum law as well as all those quality remarks and proposals brought forward in the debate which will be incorporated into the Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72764	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72765	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, the Law on a referendum proposing to regulate the issue of calling for the implementation of the state, as well as a local referendum which is the form of direct citizens' decision, in particular voters who have the right to vote, is decided on issues of a certain Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and on issues from the self-government of the regional self-government, i.e. regional self-government, a certain law and statute. The amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia last June have made significant amendments and additions to the provisions relating to the calling, the right to participate, the decision-making process and the way decisions are taken in the national or local referendum. This was followed by the adoption of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution of October 2010 where the direct application of certain provisions of the Constitution as well as those provisions which cannot be directly applied or for which it is necessary to adopt the Constitutional Law or the Law is laid down in particular in Article 7 and the obligation to adopt laws relating to the referendum. Since the direct participation of citizens in decision-making in local affairs is therefore considered by citizens' assemblies and other forms of direct decision-making, this is governed by specific regulations and is not foreseen by this referendum law. It is therefore proposed to amend the subject matter of the law itself and the name of the law itself, and so far, the law bears the name of the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional self-government and has been with three amendments in force since 1996. As for some solutions to the institute proposed by this law that we have heard different opinions at the plenary session today, at meetings of the Assembly Committees, but also good and concrete proposals, I think of the proposals and opinions of the Committee on Statutes, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, I think that they should certainly be taken into account and taken into account. And that is why it is good, and I welcome the decision to go into the adoption of this Law in two readings because this will make it happen, allow enough time for further improvements to this legal text. As regards some of the solutions set out in this Act, I would like to refer specifically to the proposed provisions of Article 8. which, in addition to Article 7, refer to the calling of a local referendum. In fact, I think that the solution to the local referendum should be further considered, along with other authorised applicants, on a proposal of only 1/3 of the members of the representative body, I think that it should provide for a qualified majority specifically, I think that most of the members of the representative body should be foreseen. In particular, in the case where a qualified majority may be necessary, even two-thirds of the time, this Law would apply to the impeachment of the holders of executive powers in units of local and regional self-government, so, the mayor, mayor and mayor of Zagreb, and I therefore absolutely welcome and support the proposal that this Law does not apply to the impeachment or resolution of the holders of executive powers in units of local and regional self-government and that this issue is resolved by amendments to the relevant laws. So, of course, following this, it is necessary, as already mentioned, and there have been talks on this until the second reading, at the same time when this referendum law will prepare for amendments primarily to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government or the Law on Elections of Mayors, Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of Zagreb in order not to be able to abuse the institutes of this Law concerning the launch of the procedure of recalling the holders of executive powers in the units of local and regional self-government. For these reasons, I will certainly support this Law in my first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72766	Replica Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72767	So, I'd like to repeat part of what I said in the debate, so it might be clearer. The referendum law prescribed provisions part of the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government regarding the referendum at local level. And part of the Law on Local Self-Government as regards the provisions on the impeachment of directly elected leaders, and the Law on Local Self-Government very unequivocally states that the decision to call a local referendum is made by most of all members of the representative body. So it is absolutely absurd that the referendum law prescribes something that has been resolved by some other law, but then it is also not necessary to speak and create the illusion that the referendum law solves or regulates the issue of calling a referendum at the local level. It's settled by the Law of Local Self-Government. And secondly, I think that we should change the terminology and not say that there will be a referendum on the recall of the directly elected leader, but perhaps on a plea, so that we can in a different way regulate the necessary majority that is needed to make such a decision. If a referendum remains, then it should certainly be decided by the Constitution by the majority of those who have left, and this may be much less than the number chosen by the direct leader.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72768	Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72769	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Unlike many others who participated in this debate today, the HSP will not support this proposal of the referendum law as a demonstration of the protests due to the deep link between this proposal for a referendum with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia adopted in June last year, which defines two fundamental elements related to this law. One must be collected at the state level in case the initiative is driven by citizens 10% of the total number of voters enrolled, which actually makes the whole process almost impossible. I don't know why it's such a fear of having an idea to hold a referendum. In fact, the fact of Croatia's independence is that no referendum is called for by citizens, and it is only that it is obvious that it should be more cautious when making political statements, do not fly, and in this case there will be no political defeat for those who actually believe that by calling the referendum they would suffer certain political damage. Why such fear of a referendum? Why do you always have any fear of protests? Well, it's in the democratic system the most normal form of expression of opinion. Probably the root of this should also be sought in a former system that has constantly had some pathologically embedded fears both from protests and from direct democracy. The developed countries of Europe above all have extremely well-developed this direct democracy by deciding through a referendum on all but important issues. And what we should consider in Croatia is how to actually strengthen this direct democracy, how to cheapen and simplify the process of conducting a referendum on different issues, and exactly Switzerland is a country that is at the very top of its performance and when it comes to the economy, when it comes to the standard, and when it comes to the competitiveness of the economy, etc. Therefore, it is obviously a country to serve as a role model but also under great political pressures to join the EU, and the Swiss are resisting it by treating them as an extremely important issue that in the EU the level of democracy is lower than in Switzerland, which they consider unacceptable. Of course, from our Croatian point of view, this is not an argument that can and should be used in relation to the EU, but it is obvious that there is still an incredible fear of direct democracy and decision-making through this. The second issue related to the Constitution is a decision which actually reduces the conditions for decision-making through a referendum on merger and unification with other states and peoples, which is therefore precisely out of fear that it will not go to a referendum in such conditions as was defined in order to take a decision on merger into other state-run legal alliances, more than 50% of all voters and more than 50% of all voters enrolled must vote in favour of this referendum. I deeply believe that Croatia is entering a phase where, above all, because of the situation in the environment, this very safeguard provision will exist in Croatia more and more important. And in protest over the fact that, almost a year ago, when amendments were made to the Constitution did not take account of it, and in practice, this decision is being passed on to the issue of this referendum law, I will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72770	Thank you. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The referendum law is one of the important laws that in some way builds a society, which regulates political relations first in society, and in some ways it is a large expression of political culture in society and directs and citizens about their consciousness that they can or can't or can't influence something. In my presentation, I'll touch two things. One concerns general matters about the referendum, and the other what may be more relevant is the relationship to the local self-government of the council, the mayor, etc. So the first question is, when is the referendum on which questions can be called a referendum, or should we put things in the right way that a referendum cannot be called on? What are these topics that cannot be the subject of a referendum decision? So it's about the largest group of human rights, minority rights, etc. I think that this is well defined in Croatia and that there should be no major changes there. The second question is, what are the terms of the referendum, or what is it to say, the author of the referendum's call? Speaking of state institutions, this is already mentioned and remains the issue, so when citizens demand a referendum on a topic. I think we should introduce one interstep, which is to define when the citizens' initiative becomes an official initiative and when the collection of signatures is to begin to be taken care of by the state, not by those who launched the initiative. I believe that, at one stage after a certain number of signatures that are smaller than these 10% are satisfied, the signatures should be collected in places that are either state institutions or local self-government units and that therefore logistical support for the collection of signatures should be given by state bodies. Why? We, when the unions called a referendum, when the unions called a referendum they brought the signatures, then we spent a number of millions of kunas just to check those signatures. Then there was a debate whether people signed there where their residence was or not, were the signatures false or not, what citizens should deliver or not. I think in an orderly state, it can be solved differently. When an authorised group of applicants delivers to the competent state institution, it is the Ministry of Administration, for example, a number of signatures that the Ministry of Administration should further organise the collection of signatures within a certain period and in certain places. Then the state has information on how many citizens have signed the request, what is the deadline, can inform the public and can say which places citizens can sign a request for a referendum. If the Organization Committee wants to control it, it can, if it doesn't want to have a country that we believe in, let it be done. And whether they will at that time collect the required number of signatures is their motivation to motivate citizens to leave to sign it. The second is, and so we won't have to spend the money on a signature check, but the people who work at the state's salary department who work for that job, so when the citizen comes to sign the request we'll say good day, you can do it anyway, and there's no problem whether the signatures are forged or not, that they can or may not be controlled. It is questionable whether with such an organization there are 10% large numbers and whether 30 days is small, but I think that's how it should work in a regulated state. The second question is when are the conditions for a referendum decision to be taken. First of all, I think that if a referendum is called upon by citizens or at the request of institutions to, as a rule, represent bodies or are in conflict with the opinion of most citizens, so citizens want to make a decision that they want or have a dilemma about some decision or have no courage to make it, so they either seek an alibi or say that they are doing it on a kind of well-meaning basis, so they are asking for confirmation with citizens. I think that if a referendum is called for the amendment of the Constitution that the number of those who voted to change the Constitution, in the referendum I say, should in that case be equal to the percentage of the required number of representatives to change the Constitution. And secondly, I believe that if the necessary censorship is already prescribed that the decision would be made so that it should not be limited to the number of voters who went to the referendum but to the number of voters from the total number of voters who voted in favour of the proposal in the referendum. Because if it is limited to the outcomes of the referendum, then those who are against the decision should not be campaigning, but people should not go to the referendum. So, you can't fail to go to the referendum to be a vote against. But if it is to be prevented, to caricate, to bring something with 10 votes, then it is necessary to prescribe what is the smallest percentage of the total number of voters to vote for. So two majority are written, one that must be more for than against and the other, that the number of votes for must be 1/4 of the total number, one/5 approximately. I said 1/4 because it's half a half, so if half goes out on a referendum and half of it votes for it is about 1/4. I think we could find a solution that will be legitimate, which will still not allow a decision to be made with 10 votes. Although, of course, when a referendum is called if a long enough deadline is left to campaign for or against that one side should animate its voters and that those who are more likely to win the referendum. It's a normal democratic game. But as we are generally inclined to caricate and search for holes to do something, then someone will remember very well that with a suggestion that a number is needed to succeed, a certain number of people who went out, then he'll just say don't go out for a referendum. So far for this general referendum. The question is therefore I think that a percentage of citizens who can submit an initiative in small areas, in small municipalities or certain local councils of municipalities and cities and at national level should be categorized, so that the percentage that is 10 at national level should not be greater than 20 at local level. Once again depending on the size of the unit of local self-government, some kind of graduation can be made between 10 and 20. In the second part of my debate, I would like to refer to relations in local self-government where the issue of the referendum on the mayor's recall has become a first-class political issue in Croatia, with other political issues. First of all, it is never good to pass laws on an already existing situation. It is much fairer to say that this situation will go away by the end of the term, and then the laws will apply to something chosen in the next local elections. But since the situation isn't exactly arranged properly, I think we should fix it. In what way? First, the question arises why the mayors and commissioners must call off the referendum. And the council and the mayors were chosen by the citizens. There's no referendum on Council recalls, just the mayor, why. I think that in the event that everything normally works between the council and the mayor, no one talks about the election, and if it doesn't work, the mechanism should be prescribed that if it goes to the elections that there is no impeachment rather than to go to elections for both the council and the mayor, then it will be one balance where there will be no blackmail except that or we will work or we will go to elections and it should be a mechanism that is correct. And secondly, who can, in which case should be able to call elections for both. There is one restrictive solution, which is 2/3 of the members of the representative body, but then no referendum, then it goes to elections for both the council and the mayor, would be fairer. Or I'm the mayor with the support of 1/3 members of the representative body again and again for the council and for the mayor. Then political actors would be careful if they knew that they depended on each other and vice versa, trying either to function or not to resolve their recommendations on the backs of citizens, but to solve them by giving citizens the mandate they received from them. I think that would be a fair solution. And there is another option, so one is not restrictive but milder, which is that the elections can be discussed either by the majority of the council or by the mayor alone without the support of the council, so let them compete in a democratic game, not by burdening the citizens with their mutual problems the whole term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72772	Thank you. Two replicas. The first is Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72773	Certainly, colleagues of Bauk you have warned of an important question, and that is what happens when citizens initiate a referendum. At national level, we debated very strongly about what happened and what is still happening with the signatures of more than 700,000 Croatian citizens who have requested a referendum on the declaration of an important law, which is the Labour Act. However, we have a situation in the municipality of Legrad where more than 20% of citizens signed an initiative to call a referendum for the municipality's impeachment, submission. So it collected, the signatures were fully valid, verified, and it was handed over to the representative body. And the representative body refused to make a decision on the opening of a referendum for the impeachment of the mayor of Legrad municipality. And after that, there's no one else's reaction. So neither did the Ministry of Administration react to this and gave an interpretation of whether a referendum must be called, and in my opinion, the fact is that when 20% of citizens ask for a referendum, then it must be done. Therefore, there is no longer a possibility that the representative body may not make such a decision. Neither did the Ministry of Administration, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, disbanded the Council, which apparently blatantly violates the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government and has called elections for both the council and the mayor of the municipality of Legrad since it is obvious that there is serious obstruction. So this is something that should certainly be very clearly defined in this law, that is, in the Law on Local Self-Government, because it is obvious that the referendum law will not solve much about local referendums.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72774	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72775	Thank you. Here is why we need to remind ourselves of the reasons why legal solutions have taken place on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. In the past term, so from 2005 to 2009, and before the number of changes to the head of cities and municipalities due to the transition of councilors from one side to the other, the ruling party, with obvious doubts or indications of political corruption, has actually questioned citizens' trust in legitimately elected bodies. And that's why the ruling majority was forced to change such provisions to go directly. If that were good, the citizens' response to the local elections in 2009 was even higher than in 2005, although as a rule because of the voter lists, but also because of the fewer people who go to the polls, that trend has always been a downward one. Because of what was done ad hoc was created one I am not going to call it a system, but an anti-system where you don't currently know who drinks, but it is known that they pay citizens, and pay these 20% of the citizens who applied for a referendum on the mayor's recall. If this is about a referendum, I hold that it should be implemented, so let the mayor stay if he has the support of the citizens. And in what I said before, if you followed, I hold that the possibility of resolving political disputes between the Council and the mayor should be sought in the elections for both, rather than blackmailing each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72776	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72777	Dear colleague Bauk, you said one thing I won't say as some MPs have said. I think it's still a lapus saying that members of the council have been elected directly. Since 2009, only local self-government leaders have been elected directly in Croatia. Members of the Council were on the lists and those lists were elected by citizens. But members of the council, council members and council members were not elected by the citizens, but were elected on the ballot by the party names and names of the bearer of the list. And I agree with you that there is a law that once again allows for specific moments when certain political options, rather than citizens, want to force their opinion through the work of the council, are once again one of the forms of political corruption. And I believe that the current referendum law that is now in force is far better than this bill that is now in front of parliamentarians and will go to another reading. And first of all, I think we should go to one whole public debate. Regarding the number of councilors who could ask for the replacement of such elected local self-government leaders was one-third and he can go along with this law. A proposal to be addressed to the ministry to be at least a half-dominated majority of council members. I cannot agree with you, that if it happens that the council does not want to cohabitate directly elected local self-government leaders, that both go to the elections, it is simply necessary to find a model when a council that does not want to cooperate and wants to do obstruction to elected local self-government leaders must definitely go to the elections according to the referendum system.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72778	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72779	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When I spoke about the legitimacy of mayors and councils, I spoke not of council members, but of the council as a body as a whole. It's really chosen directly. Not a member, not every councilman in particular but a council elected by the same people who chose the mayor. Well, those who went to the mayor's election got tickets to the council. The same people voted. Well, in that context, I was talking about their legitimacy, and of course every member of the council has less legitimacy as an individual than the mayor. But the council in general was chosen by the same people and the same day, unless there were other groups 15 days later. But they can be thought to be the same citizens again. As far as other relationships are concerned, I fenced myself at the beginning of my discussion that it's hard to discuss something that already exists. So you're speaking from the mayor's position. A HDZ member can also speak from the mayor's position and disagree with his party colleague who speaks from the position of someone who has a majority in the council, but has no mayor. So in that context, I fenced myself that everything I'm saying should be applied after the election when it's not yet known. Because we have one example that is not governed by a political decision, by a clear political decision. It's corporate control. Whether it controls the council or the mayor. And then instead of the political body of the Croatian Parliament, it was settled by the Constitutional Court. And then we waited a year or a year and something to wait for the judicial institution to say something that the policy was supposed to solve at the beginning just because it was waiting to see if there would be a greater impact on those in the ruling coalition that had a majority in the council or those who had a minority in the council of a mayor. Therefore, it is a political decision that needs to be known before going to the elections and before the election results, and then we would not discuss it like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72780	Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. In the first order of support, the proposed proposal is to discuss this very important, very important bill in two readings, in the regular parliamentary procedure, and in the extreme line for the reason that certain legal provisions are more precise, more clear, so that ultimately the Law on Referendum itself is even more high quality. Otherwise, or the accession of amendments to the Law on Referendum is one logical and necessary change in the light of the newly adopted constitutional changes, namely the new provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the constitutional law for the implementation of constitutional provisions. It is precisely in this sense that this proposal for a law is in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and let's say, by analysing legal solutions in relation to constitutional provisions, we could firstly single out those 5 most important, so in my opinion, these are the following 5 things or 5 elements. One in the referendum is now decided by the majority of voters who have joined the referendum, this law regulates the precise decision-making procedure in the state referendum of voters who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, the same way is arranged for the accession of residents who, voters who are resident in the Republic of Croatia, and at the time of holding a national referendum, are found outside its borders, and then the right to decide on the citizens of another Member State of the European Union in a local referendum is prescribed the conditions for calling a advisory referendum and for both the state and the referendum at the local level, so which is the representative body, always of course, on issues from its part. As far as the impeachment itself is concerned, the leader of the local self-government units has called off, and so far we've had a lot to hear about in the debates. It is my opinion that the impeachment, as a possibility to resolve the immediate election of the head of the units of local self-government, is absolutely not necessary and it is not necessary for this to be prescribed, arranged, resolved by the Law on Referendum. I think at all that we may be wrong whenever we are discussing the Institute of Referenda, as a special institute, in relation to everything that is in a direct or indirect way related to the electoral process, it was also about the resolution, or the termination of the term of office. The referendum, in its essence, is quite different from the choice of the one that will represent us, in this case at local level, because then people are determined for the programme, and for the political party, and for the person, but who will implement the programme in a certain period of time for whom people have voted, with a voice, so to speak. I think that a lot of misunderstandings, a lot of doubts, a lot of misunderstandings, a lot of unresolved situations that could arise in the application of these very provisions of the referendum law would be resolved if absolutely from the provisions of the Law on Referendum, so that the recall of the unit leaders of local self-government who were directly elected by office or special law, or that in the existing Law on the selection of members of representative bodies and leaders of the units of local self-government, a very important question should be resolved to detail so that we do not have any doubts, disagreements on the possibility of applying this institute, because the Institute calls off an absolute institute that law should be regulated. And another question that could, and some colleagues and colleagues have already mentioned it, is when we talk about a local referendum. So this law also treats the local referendum, and of course the logical provision of the law which is in the extreme line is the same or similar to that in the current law, so the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local, regional (regional) self-government, which law will cease to apply when we adopt a new Law on Referendum, is in which situations are not in a procedural and legal sense, not in which way this referendum can be called, and when they are obtained, the assumptions are fulfilled, the legal assumptions that it is valid, so that it can be properly called, but on which issues. I think that provision should be more precise, and it is a good suggestion that it can always be, only it can be out of the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government, so all those issues that representative bodies at local level can discuss where, therefore, we also have legal provisions that indicate that this is their jurisdiction. However, the proposal for this law sets out in a explicit sense, and the law is referred to the law, so that there is no doubt, so I suggest that it be seen, that it examines the possibility of clearer precision, so in that sense, the competence of the representative bodies on which issues can then be valid and in a legitimate manner, in the sense of calling a referendum, also at that local level. As for the disagreement they were talking about, or the discrepancy between this proposed law and other laws and the prescribed solutions, and as a reference to this bill, I would warn of the fact that, of course, when the draft amending or proposing this law was approached, it is necessary to coordinate any solutions from other laws that regulate the same or similar matter, simply so that we do not come to any part of it, or that we do not have two different solutions in two different laws, so that I do not see any major problem here, both nomotechnical and any other sense, so that is exactly how we should settle it. Finally, this law should be supported, we are, we must adopt a new law on referendums based on new constitutional provisions, based on the Law implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This law is on the trail of European standards, not on the trail, but really based on practice, on those countries that have reached a higher level in this democratic sense, so it cannot be characterized by this bill that furthers the Institute of the Referendum as a form of direct democracy. On the contrary, some provisions of the law need to be clarified, elaborated, especially those relating to appeals at the local level directly elected leaders of units of local self-government, perhaps others that I have not mentioned, but this legislative project absolutely needs to be supported, it is quality, in that sense, it will certainly resolve the questions of the referendum in a more quality way than it has been in the far line so far, and I think that in the second reading or second reading of all these comments, the proposals that we present here in the first reading and respect and thus that we will certainly get the Law on the referendum very quickly which will fix the whole referendum problem in one democratic, modern way. And in this respect, support to both the ministry and the professional services that propose such draft laws. And I am, not to hope, but I am convinced that during this time period until the final draft of the law, all these controversial things that we have talked about and discussed will be arranged in the best possible way. And in that sense, once again support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72782	Thank you. Five replicas. First Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72783	The Honorable colleague is precisely this law that goes beyond European democracy since this law is further than that of the old law, and it was recognised only by the Ministry of Administration and our Assembly Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure because it is as wonderful and as great as you have spoken then he should not go into another reading but simply all of us parliamentary representatives would raise these tablets, hands or keys to put and vote that law. The fact is, and here I am not speaking as mayor but as a parliamentary representative, but who may understand this issue a little better than those who did not even sit in the city council and who, if they went directly to the elections, would never have even sat here but were simply hiding behind the party lists. But that's another question we can further elaborate on. The main issue of recalling the head of local self-government must be resolved in parallel with the question and the referendum law. It can happen to us, and this is defined in Article 21 of this law not only the question of recalling the head of local self-government but the issues of Croatia's entry into the EU may happen in a referendum of voters, deciding directly by means of a secret vote, which is normal, but it is not normal for the vote to be decided by the majority of voters who have joined the referendum. For this referendum, which is also related to the impeachment of local self-government leaders, but also to Croatia's entry into the EU, most of the country's residents, voters of this country, Croats and Croatian citizens, are also required. Not 10 people or 5 people who will go to the referendum thanks to... a campaign with brooch and punishment Croatia should not go to the EU. That's the basic problem. The impeachment and issue of Croatia's entry into the EU must be parallel to this referendum law. And this law, I have done what it means, and it can lead to local self-government, but God can also question the entire future of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72784	Thank you. Reply to
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72785	And you shouldn't defend such a bad law and such a bad bill regardless of party discipline.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72786	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72787	I don't think it's necessary to attack him the way you do, and you've replicated to me in a way that when it comes to impeachment, you've actually repeated what I said. And you didn't listen to me very carefully, if you'd listened to me carefully, you'd know that I said that exactly from this law everything that is related to the impeachment of the directly elected leaders of the body of self-government should try to isolate it from this law or prescribe it by some other law or put it in the Law on election of the head of representative bodies of the units of local self-government. That's one thing. And secondly, you're polymizing not only with me but also with the provisions of the Republic of Croatia Constitution, a distinguished colleague. You, as a parliamentary representative, should be the first to comply with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so I remind you that we have changed the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that these provisions are most in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia whether you like it or not. And whether something is at the level of European standards or not, in terms of the application of certain institutes relating to the referendum, your colleague here is absolutely wrong. Because this bill, I repeat that he is in the first reading, that all the controversial moments that may arise in the sense of applying certain legal provisions can still be completed, but that he is absolutely on that trail. And once again, I will express my support for this bill, which is in line with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the matter of the referendum, in a good way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72788	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72789	Mr. Vice President, the insult of the MPs elected by Croatian citizens and colleagues tells one representative in the Croatian Parliament not to respect the Croatian Constitution. That's one big insult. I respect the Croatian Constitution and the Croatian state. I did not vote for constitutional changes, and constitutional changes as well as the Constitutional Law on National Minorities were adopted by political trade in order to preserve the armchairs. That's one big difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72790	Thank you very much. This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please do not go beyond all possible frameworks. If you are objecting to not sticking to the Constitution, the Constitution has decided which majority decisions are made in the referendum. Well, I can't get... Then no other solutions that are contrary to the Constitution can be proposed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And you can't, when you object to it, then ask for it to be an insult to an attorney. The insult of a representative is something else, and it is not an insult to a representative when he warns himself to stick to the Constitution. ... Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk, replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72791	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I might add something else here that's important, and that's when it comes to exactly what's called the mayor's recall, often in the middle where the mayor is from one political option, and the City Council is another political option to avoid the traps that, in the context of the day-to-day political struggles with the City Council decisions and the half-way majority going to the referendum, or to the mayor's recall, which may not have a real basis in all of this, but is precisely the result of the struggle of two bodies and I dare say two political options as one of the forms of political struggle. And secondly, when we talk about the referendum and its calling, I also point out that through the desire for referendum points and their statement, we also do not bring forward a referendum and use it as a body for day-to-day political struggles in local self-government units, so that in this way, we also focus on issues which, with the original meaning of the referendum, actually have nothing but the way in which bodies initiate other circumstances, the development of events, which means that, through a referendum question on one issue that is relatively irrelevant but... the connotations of the mayor hides that possibility, therefore, my point is that we do not use this referendum in some wrong direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72792	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72793	So, I absolutely agree in that part of the distinguished colleague when you insisted that the impeachment of the directly elected mayors and mayors be completely separated from the referendum issues in terms of the referendum institute and what is this news referendum in constitutional practice and constitutional law theory as well as in practice. In my presentation, I said absolutely that it is my opinion that any institution of choice, so directly or indirectly, should not be involved with this law, and I think that if we are on this track to open the need to call off or pass a new law or to pass a law on the election of members of the representative bodies of the mayors and mayors. Which is why I'm gonna do it again. The elections themselves relate to a specific person, a man, but also to a political party, to a specific programme and to a certain period of mandate, so the time period in which this programme needs to be realised and whenever we try to bring these two things together, we come into trouble. That's one thing. And secondly, and I would support and agree when we legally define that institute to avoid all those traps, that this instrument can then be used in daily political decomposition. All that is used or used in this regard for some bickering between the executive and the representative bodies at local level should be well analysed and, in fact, legal solutions should be prevented from happening. This is an argument more that this issue is isolated from this Law either directly or indirectly solved in another way, and I think that, on the basis of this and the decisions and discussions on the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and that the proposals that these reforms will try to define in this way are more qualitatively accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72794	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72795	So we really have a little confusion here because it would be good to finally say what this law is about. It was said on the Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government that this Law refers to impeachment, to a referendum on a plea for the resolution of the mayor, the mayor of the municipality. Now we hear it's not gonna work out with some new law. Article 40b of the Law on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government says provisions of the Law on Referendum apply to a referendum on the resolution of the municipal head, mayor and mayor. So how can we now say that this Law does not refer to a referendum on resolution if the Law on Local Self-Government says these issues will be resolved by the Law on Referendum? The only thing I suggest is that we agree here and conclude that the Government undertakes that, until the second reading of the Law on Referendum in the Parliamentary procedure, not some other law will be directed, but amendments and additions to the Law on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government, which will regulate the resolution of the referendum on resolution. Only then can we talk about what you were talking about. Otherwise everything else is blowing in the wind.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72796	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72797	Dear colleague, what I've been talking about can always be talked about and what you've been discussing on your board I haven't agreed to there so I can't rephrase to you in that sense, I'm going to rephrase to you in a different way. You know very well as your colleague as a parliamentary representative, which means parliamentary procedures and which means accepting the proposal that a specific legislative proposal goes into two readings. So this is not the final draft law in this sense and we here can debate even in principle, theoretically, we can discuss concrete legal provisions. I took this opportunity to talk about a specific legal provision. I think that this problem can be better solved in another way that now I'm not repeating myself. As it will ultimately be resolved, what will be the final draft of the law, I am convinced that it will be on track for the best possible solutions, and it is certainly better to resolve and best possible that the impeachment of the directly elected leaders of the units of local self-government either directly or indirectly do not apply to this institute the provisions of the Law on Referendum rather than that other way by special regulation it regulates. And every time we come into a situation that the referendum law as one truly important comprehensive law that includes all aspects of the referendum we have to, and there's no reason for that, we apply and we engage in this way normically some election cycles at local level we're in trouble. I am convinced that we will solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72798	Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72799	Here, Mr Tomljanovic, in the conclusions of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, we have a third point that says it is recommended that the Government of the Republic of Croatia propose a law that regulates the referendum on the impeachment of mayors, mayors, etc. But that's not why I answered. Here in our conversation with a colleague, we took a look at Article 8, so I would also ask the minister later to include a little clarification. In the City of Zagreb and the city and municipality of the referendum, half of the local committees or urban districts are proposed. When he talks about city councils, he says on the proposal of a third of the members, on the proposal of half the members, and here he says on the proposal of half the local committees. What is a local board, a city district, is that a council of local committees? Second, which means half, you have four local committees in one municipality. Half two, they argue about some time every day there'll be a referendum. So this third paragraph of Article 8 should be elaborated and explained, so I would ask you, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, to say what you think about this, whether this applies to the council of the local board, the city quarter council, and is half a good number?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72800	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72801	... It is necessary to clarify, edit more precisely. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I don't need to be a lawyer or even the board president to know what half of four is, and we're going to agree in that sense to clarify that provision, and what I was going to say is not to bother me. Watch out for the referendum law covers only one part of this problem that we have been discussing all along. We can be aware of the Law on Referendum in terms of the debate on the impeachment of mayors and mayors, but it is only in this proposal in one proposal where one segment of the law is. So, when you replicated me for this particular provision of the law, it is absolutely necessary to specify but it is not the essence of the referendum law just this kind of thing as we have called it recall or recall, the regulation of recalling the head of the unit of local self-government. It is much wider, much more comprehensive, covering all forms of referendum. And my colleagues are thinking there is clear, my opinion that we should not link the institutes of a referendum with the institutions of impeachment. And every time the re-election process of appointing or resolving comes, it's something specific and quite different from the referendum problem and in its essence. And whenever we get in a position to regulate it this way when our norms get intertwined that we'll be in trouble. This problem should be resolved in the simplest possible way for these institutes to be governed by another regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72802	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72803	You tell your colleague Tomljanovic this law is on the trail of European values. What European values? Which of the European values of this law affirms except by helping to implement the referendum on EU accession more easily and that we are safer to join. Citizens remain equally distant from their theoretical right to deal with some issues through a referendum. But it's not even weird. Look, we're having trouble finding out what half of the 4th government has problems with this, this law is only on the trail of the sloppyness of the government. The government does not know that there is a Law on Local Self-Government under which if no emergency procedure had been removed it would have been voted and published in the National Journal on Friday. After 8 days, the first mayor may be removed unless the Law on Local Self-Government is amended. The Government's Office of Law has 22 objections to the Statute of the HRT, but has no idea that this issue must be addressed in parallel in the referendum law and in the Law on Local Self-Government. And that both laws should have been dealt with systematically if they didn't want to mess up, that both legislative proposals had to come to the bench at the same time and to see which direction the government's thinking was going about changing local self-government leaders. This is how it will have to be applied under the Law on Local Self-Government will have to apply the Law on Referendum, because that's what it says there, so it's a valid law for God's sake, so until we change it will be valid. But here's what I'm saying on no European value trail, but on the mark of the sloppyness of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72804	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72805	Dear fellow, you naturally characterize the laws the way they suit you, the way it suits you. It always suits you that you bring criticism to both the Office of Law and the Proposers and the Government, it is your right as that man who has been sitting in opposition for many years. But you are not the rightful colleague when you say that this law does not have the elements of all those laws on referendums which the constitutional profession and both theory and practice recognized as something that is good, which is positive, which is in terms of democratisation of society in terms of the possibility of a direct declaration of citizens to certain issues recognised, acceptable and translated into these norms. This is the first reading of the law, which is under 1. We agreed several times that certain norms or articles should be sanded out, should be clarified, should be specified and it is undeniable. In the same way as it is undeniably not possible to apply a certain provision of a law which has not entered into force. This law cannot be applied until it enters into force until it is adopted by a procedure that is very well-known to you. If this does not apply, the person who has been subject to this proposal for a referendum shall apply. So, in that sense, you're a little manipulative. Therefore, nothing would have happened at that time until a specific legal provision came into force, the legal provisions that are in force and until this bill and debate in Parliament were not at all disputed. What was "dispute" is how we will deal with a few questions from this referendum law. The proposal to go in two readings has been accepted and there is no reason for these issues to be resolved in the final line for the referendum law to be harmonised, which is the necessity that constitutional legal necessity is in line with other regulations that are not in conflict with other regulations which indirectly or directly regulate the matter which is being touched and the Law on Referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72806	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72807	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The referendum, the word referendum, is indeed the word under which we mean the highest form of democracy in any country and in any society. So it's just the voice of the people. Here in this legislative proposal, it is comprehensive, also refers to a country-level referendum but also to referendum solutions, especially recalling or resolving local officials. Now, according to the constitutional provision of the June Constitution, which was adopted in June last year, we know exactly what the referendum majority definition and decision-making is. There is nothing written about the recall or resolution of local officials. This is regulated by the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. But the law and elections were conducted directly in 2009. So in this legal solution is one provision and in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in June last year, there is another provision and clearly that we are now coming to a certain confusion or chaos. It is proposed in Article 8 that this may be recalled by a local or regional official elected in the 2009 direct elections. So it is proposed that on the proposal of a third of the council members in the representative body, it was the municipal, city council or county assembly, or the City of Zagreb Assembly. We know that the mandates in the representative body are selected from the list of parties, not directly by name and last name. It is also true that the mandate is personal, so the mandate is defined as personal. This opens up a new possibility of confusion, chaos and something else, political trade, when it is necessary for only a third of the council members to decide to go to a referendum in connection with trust or recall the local leader elected in the direct elections. And I really think a lot of cases like this would appear. The mistrust shown by the state towards its citizens when the large majority here in the Assembly with the hands of parliamentary representatives, particularly the ruling coalition, said that the referendum is not needed, especially when it comes to the state union or whether it is about the European Union or some other, so when only the semi-half-dominated majority who went to the referendum are made clear that there is no citizen's mistrust. In that first constitutional provision, so before this law, the referendum said that half the majority of citizens had to come out. In this same way, the only referendum in the Republic of Croatia was held in 1990, in 1991, in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia declared themselves independent. It is interesting that after 20 years we show these same citizens the mistrust that there is no longer the quota needed, which is 50% +1 of the citizens who went to the referendum on Croatia's entry into some other state-owned alliance. I'm not going to speak to the European Union on purpose to which we are, let's say, at the door. On the other hand, here speakers today make it clear that I will not say no to representatives, members of representative bodies in local and regional representative bodies, mistrust and a little bit of fear, and in connection with this quota that has been legally proposed here, which is a third of the council, half of the local boards or 20% of the voters in that local or regional self-government. So there is one general mistrust and fear either by the state, the government, and then by local leaders of any colour of parties, so whether it was HDZ's chiefs, mayors or mayors or some other as Mršić etc. Therefore, it is clear that we must find a measure here to really comply with this June Constitution and the provisions on a referendum under the June Constitution 2010, so the provision was different in that earlier constitution, with the law on the selection of local and regional officials. So there's Mr. Minister to say it like this, and we're here today because of good will, good intentions and good faith that can be done. It must be clear, at least I am thinking, although I am not a lawyer, but as I say too much thinking about this matter, that it cannot be a representative body without the upper half majority, let's say the city council, municipal council or county assembly, the City of Zagreb Assembly, without a constituency, not a third of the councilors, a whole majority, cannot decide on the impeachment any further. The referendum has been tried and spent several times in Croatia. The latest example is an example that tried to intervene in this way in the Labour Law. The Constitutional Court has ruled that the matter is not going to the referendum, that it is not appropriate, etc., that I do not now explain the Constitutional Court's decision and referendum, although more than 700 thousand signatures have been collected or almost 15% of the electoral body of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, there was an attempt at a referendum on the arbitration agreement, and we forgot it a little. Just about an agreement that the Republic of Croatia has not yet come to light, has surfaced, the iceberg in the Savudrian wave that will cross the sea to the Slovenian side. The attempt was a referendum, or signature, but here it failed. But don't forget, it'll come out eventually. That is why I think it is necessary to introduce an opportunity for the Constitutional Court to check whether the contents of the referendum issue are in accordance with the Constitution before some organisational committee of the Association of Citizens that initiates the referendum goes into the collection of signatures. So what about collecting signatures if the Constitutional Court refuses today as the Labour Act and refuses 700 thousand signatures. Therefore, it should be possible to obtain the Constitutional Court's opinion on the referendum issue before it begins to collect signatures. If he's got sound logic and brains. Since I'm bright yellow in there, and I speak for the club, I'll continue for... I signed up. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's plenty more to red. The question is not regulated, therefore, when it comes into force, Mr. Minister. If the referendum gets positive, so it goes to the citizens of Croatia, when the referendum is decided and how long does it last, who can change it? Whether a new referendum or someone else. So, how long has the referendum decision been in force, when the referendum that went through the referendum takes effect. All of this needs to be regulated. That is why all of these problems are very, very necessary. Second, if not even third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72808	Replica. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72809	Since the esteemed colleague was very much about what I would like to say only, and he did not mention when he mentioned the June Constitution of 2010, when it was passed to the two-thirds majority of MPs, when we now want to put before the elections and Croatian defenders in the Constitution, then the problem is not to bring the June Constitution in 2011 and to bring new provisions to the Constitution on the referendum. Because we have to admit, especially you from the HDZ of the ruling coalition and those who voted for these constitutional changes that we have made a mistake, that all of us together must now practically suffer because of this mistake and that chief in Legrad, he should not even ask for a referendum to be called because we are in one legal vacuum. We do not have a referendum law, but we have an existing one that does not conform to the Croatian Constitution. And it must be clear to everyone here, as well as to Croatian citizens as units of local self-government, that they are not members of the council and it is not the President of the Council who is directly elected and who is legally entitled to manage the property of the city, trade societies and everything that is related to the city and budget. It's the only thing to run. Here's Mr. Minister, I'm asking you, I'm asking you, but here's what I'm asking this Parliament to do is to encourage an initiative for a new constitution to avoid this article 21 where indeed three men, two men, and even one if it's in agreement with itself, so that it declares the ballot invalid can also make a decision to join Croatia in association with African countries, with the European Union, and not God anymore with those who asked for the SAO landscape and you raised your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72810	Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72811	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. I will, of course, support the proposal for this law for a reason, because it is a law that must be passed by the constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution which allows the application of constitutional provisions, those which are impossible to implement directly. It is also good, and here are the circumstances, that the Proposer has accepted the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure that this law goes in two readings, just so that we can pass a quality law that we will be able to implement fully and in practice what was the intensity of both the promoters and the adoptors of the Constitution in terms of the referendum institute as one of the forms of direct democracy. I also agree with the fact that this law should regulate the matter of the referendum both state and local, and that the issue calls off the head of local and regional units, so they resolve how the Ministry of Administration decides to propose whether in the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government which now regulates part of the issue of the local referendum. Whether or not in the Law on the Selection of Leaders of Local and Regional Units as a possible Law on Selection and impeachment, but certainly by some other law which will not be the Law on Referendum because it is a specific, completely specific and separate matter. So we heard today in the debates throughout the morning that the main newspapers and constitutional changes are in relation to the referendum, and this law extending the round of voters in the referendum. Therefore, all voters with general and equal electoral rights regardless of their residence are now allowed to have Croatian citizens and those who do not have, therefore, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not have residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia but also those who find themselves at the time of the referendum outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia are allowed to participate in the referendum. And also the newspaper that the referendum is valid if it does not access less than 50% of the total number of voters. So, when we are another important newspaper, which is that local referendums can also be joined by citizens of EU member states when it comes to local affairs. Here is the occasion, given that it is the first reading to warn about some of the provisions of this proposal that should be streamlined better, more skillful or clearer in the final proposal. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Let us, therefore, make a simple binding referendum, in order to decide on a proposal to amend the Constitution, a proposal for a general act or other issue in the section of the representative body, as well as on other issues of a certain law and the statute of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government, and the following paragraph is stenciled that the representative body may issue an advisory referendum only on issues from its own part. I believe that there is no place for the provisions to spread, because in the end, if the statute were to, say, some local units, they would decide in the referendum on some issues that are outside the scope of that representative body, and the referendum is binding. The question is, then, who would be bound by this referendum decision, so we should certainly drop the words of this further so on and on other issues which are set out by law and statute. This provision also provides for a referendum, a representative body to call a referendum on the proposal of one-third of the members of the representative body, a proposal from the mayor, mayor, mayor, etc. Indeed, it can happen that in some small municipality where you have a representative body that counts I don't know, say 17 members that every little, 6 council members of the opposition agree and make a motion to call a referendum, and that in that unit, you have every hour on every issue actually which from the part-round representative body that you have a referendum. So here I suggest that this proposal be taken as an initiative, so that these, that one third of the council members, mayor, mayor and half of the local committees, half of the number of local committees, are able to submit the initiative, but that the representative body, by the half-capital majority, makes a decision on the calling. Furthermore, in Article 14, I do not think it is, there is a provision that the organisational committee or the organiser who collects, collects the signatures of the voters they bring, who are then bound to call the referendum, that it controls the validity of the signature, I think it is not good, they are the ones who collect it, and I think that not only to control themselves, but they are neither capacitated, nor can they do so within 3 days, which is left for them to hand over the signature. Therefore, this control should be left to the body which is bound by their signatures to call a referendum, and in this respect I also warn of Article 16 of this proposal of the law, which therefore says that when it receives a request for a national referendum, the Croatian Parliament may request within 30 days, etc. Check. I don't understand the intensity of the promoter, so I don't know, but it certainly needs to be clarified, so the signatures are handed over to the president of the Croatian Parliament. Whether the President of the Croatian Parliament can request a check, or if it says it is the Croatian Parliament, then it must be decided by the Croatian Parliament, whether it wants or whether it will be sent for verification, and if the Croatian Parliament asks for verification then it says it will set a time limit within which the data must be verified. I believe that the deadline should be laid down by law. So I still think it would be better if the check were mandatory, because when the Parliament calls for a referendum, it must be sure that it is binding on valid signatures, therefore it should be able to streamline that when the President of the Croatian Parliament receives a request for verification and that the verification must be carried out within the time limit set by this law, whether it is 30 or 60 days, it will already be proposed by the Ministry. Because from this, if we were to add up the deadlines given by this bill, then it comes out that, in fact, for the state referendum around that deadline, about 9 months, 120 days, I don't know what 120 days to decide on a referendum, that's 4 months, and maybe that deadline would be more appropriate to put in for the call and prepare a referendum. And one more thing, I am running out of time, and it is extremely important, given the new provision, that the referendum is valid and that the referendum decision is made by most of the voters who went to the referendum, then it is extremely important for citizens to be properly informed that the referendum is called. In this bill, we have a provision that the results of the referendum carried out must be published in the resources of the "National Journal", in the daily press, and in Croatian broadcasting, indeed Croatian broadcasting is the most powerful medium, the media most watched, which informs citizens most, would certainly be, because if citizens are not asked to go out on a referendum 50% plus one of the total number of citizens, then it is important that everyone knows that the referendum is being conducted, in order to decide whether to come to a statement or not. And I therefore think that Article 24 should prescribe, as an obligation, that the decision to call a state referendum should be published in the "National Journal", in the daily press, and not by other means of communication, but explicitly as well as the results of the referendum on Croatian broadcasting, so that all citizens would be aware of it, and as appropriate to apply it to the decision to call a local referendum, because it could indeed happen, mainly in small local units, if it remains this way, that one third of the council members call a referendum, that it is hardly known that a very small number of people come out on the referendum and make a binding decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72812	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72813	In order to agree with what the colleague has now said at the last moments of her speech, I would like to say that democracy is the will of the majority, and that the impeachment of the local leaders, so the mayor, the mayor, can be resolved by a special law, but the opposition itself must be exclusively, that is, the way of that impeachment must be a referendum. He cannot be a decision in the council, in the assembly, because the council and the assembly were not directly elected, and the local leader was directly elected. And I think there must be a step in this part of the law. The current situation says that no referendum in Croatia can succeed, because the Revocation of the Chief's Change Act is under the old Law on Referendum, and we have a new Constitution. And anyone who's smart enough to have a little and a political brain in their head is going to ask for a constitutional assessment. But I return to the key point again, this is Article 21, and it depends on it, the referendum law, and this demand, we bring new constitutions or constitutional changes in which most of the voters who have joined the referendum will be replaced by a supra-almost majority of voters, 50% plus one. Because I don't believe much in freedom of the media, I don't believe, and I believe a lot in the lobbys that run these media, and it can happen to us that a narrow minority of Croatian citizens decide Croatia's fate, and remember what you stood for, and all of us together. Let us decide for ourselves the fate of our Croatia. Because of this change in the Constitution, and let us trust Croatian citizens, they have lost faith in Croatian politics and politicians, but not all politicians are the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72814	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72815	Let's give them a chance to do what they did in the '90s. and '91.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72816	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72817	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Vinkovic, I can't parley with constitutional changes now, when we pass the law, we will really decide for ourselves about Croatia's fate and all the important issues for Croatia in a way, and that is why I said that this is exactly the most important thing to do by law, that all citizens must be informed that the referendum is being conducted, that they will go to the referendum and that they will be made known on it. You can't sit at home and say someone decided for you. You're welcome to go to the referendum, have a chance, and decide. As far as impeachment is concerned, I did not say one word about the fact that it should be done by a representative body, I only said that the Institute calls off as another form of direct democracy should be resolved by another law, not by this referendum law, and of course it should also pay attention to the balance of relations between the directly elected mayor and directly, whatever you say, directly elected members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72818	Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72819	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am beginning to say that I am pleased that the law goes into another reading, and it is good that in some way the laws on which a high level of consent should be reached are further discussed and especially when it comes to such important things that we have had a lot of controversy over the past, I would say for a year, and it is a pity that this law is brought into shadow of an event where the will of more than 700 thousand Croatian citizens who wanted to make a referendum on a very important subject, it is a matter of labour rights, or a change of the Labour Act. And a way has been sought by HDZ and coalition partners to avoid it, how people who have expressed their will and desire to go to the polls and in some way say their will on such an important subject not to do so. And unfortunately, this law is being passed in the shadow of this event and even some of the activities that were during those months, we remember all those efforts, I would say the ruling HDZ parties and certain activities that went towards preventing the opening of the referendum, the intrusion of the Constitutional Court, the question of whether or not it should have been asked. And now we see that essentially in the referendum law, some of these things that were not then written or were worth trying to introduce and in some way cover one such, in my opinion, unprincipled behavior. But, okay. We hope that it will never be possible to play 700 thousand Croatian citizens again and not respect their will to plead on any issue, especially those they have the right to. And on the other hand, some things that are important in the referendum, which I think should be corrected by another reading, are absolutely to see the censorship if required at the state level of 10% of voters, which is why at local level in a city, the municipality needs 20%. If it were worth one adequate meaning, I would say a link related to the state, or to the city or municipality, and in some ways that the censorship at the same municipal level would be 10%, so that citizens on the local subject can declare themselves accordingly. The second thing is when the Parliament decides on a referendum that, on certain issues related to the Constitution or to the amendment of the Constitution or certain other things for which a two-thirds majority is otherwise required, a consensus should also be reached in the Assembly and two-thirds of the votes to be called. Because that's how we should draw a certain analogy. What special attention should be paid to and why many public concerns have occurred in recent months is whether this referendum automatically means that they will be applied adequately and to the call for a referendum on the selection of directly elected mayors, i.e. mayors and mayors of municipalities. And we need to be aware, I agree here with my colleague Mršić, who said that by the second reading absolutely the law should be sent, the amended Law on Local Self-Government Elections in a way to comply with this law and that in some way it defines what those rules are worth when it comes to impeaching directly elected mayors, mayors or mayors. And, of course, make it possible to call a referendum and call for impeachment, i.e. to make the mandate available in certain congregations, or councils. Something that my colleague Bauk said earlier in the debate. So we have to have some analogy that will in some way reflect that the same voters have chosen both mayors and mayors and mayors, but also councils, or assemblies of cities that are now, I would say, in office. What that law unfortunately did wrong was if we had locals in this situation I would tell the sheriffs, and sometimes people who abuse the situation that they're almost practically immeasurable. And then they ignore, I'd say completely, representative bodies that represent the same citizens who chose them. And we have confusing situations, we have a mess in some, I would say to local self-governments, where things need to be clarified and put up responsibilities and the ability to control and in some way restore trust to citizens if it's impossible to solve certain things. We are now in the City of Zagreb, unfortunately because of the mayor's behaviour we have a mess. We have total ignoring of the representative body and when the representative body makes one decision absolutely everyone is for, the mayor in the manner, I don't know what to call it, but it was before in some absoluteist monarchies possible, ignoring the citizens, ignoring that assembly that was chosen by the citizens and shaking hands and saying I don't care what you've done in the assembly. And we have a situation that is not good because absolutely some head of local self-government, this is about the mayor of the City of Zagreb, acts because it is practically a censorship for calling a referendum and recalling the mayor. So 50 plus 1% to go out is impossible to implement. And then, of course, if someone is irresponsible, if someone behaves in this way I just described it is impossible in some way to point out the will of citizens who are definitely, who have also shown in selecting certain representative bodies, in this case the assembly. Here I will take advantage of the opportunity since the minister is present to invite him to reach a conclusion, or decision, as soon as possible, and to resolve the situation over the price of kindergartens in Zagreb so that finally the citizens of the City of Zagreb who did not get a little out of this mess in which the mayor of BAndic has brought them in. We have about 40,000 families waiting in some way for Minister Mlakar's decision to know what they are on, whether it is worth a decision legitimately made under the Law by the City of Zagreb Assembly and determined what the Law has prescribed for her, which is the price of kindergarten which was as before and rejected the possibility of collecting the prices of kindergartens advocated by the mayor Bandic or would be worth the decision of the mayor Bandic, who speaks about the collection of kindergartens and on the basis of which the mayor Bandic unfoundedly forced his parents to take some paperwork out of the tax administration and take it to their kindergartens. And that's what needs to be avoided, a mess that governments in this kind of relationship that potentials in Zagreb the mayor of Zagreb and I think that the Ministry should stop and should stop as soon as possible because of these 40,000 families, it's a huge number of people making a decision and it shouldn't wait 15 days if you have the elements on which you can make a decision is within as soon as possible and I think it's doubtless that the law states who determines who is the price of kindergarten and that in some way that doubt, the decision should be taken and doubted. I wonder and hope for certain doubts that exist that Mayor Bandic is working in cooperation with the ruling party and thus creates a deliberate mess in the city of Zagreb, you will not make your decision when you confirm it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72820	Thank you, this is the final one they were all about the referendum. About kindergarten? Correction of an incorrect allegation, Madam Representative Gjurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72821	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd tell my colleague Maras that you've been sleeping somewhere, so I could make this right for you because you're not in the subject first, and the other one is like this. I don't think so, but I'm sure that this same mayor is exactly your proposal for the city of Zagreb, because you didn't have a better proposal, you said so yourself. As far as the Zagreb City Assembly is concerned, it is the one who has just confirmed this about the kindergartens you are talking about that is not at all the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72822	We now have a violation of the Rules of Procedure around kindergarten. About the debate on kindergartens or the referendum?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72823	Mr. Vice President, she didn't correct any incorrect allegations, she said there was more but she didn't, corrected any single allegations and you should have warned her, that's my violation of the Rules of Procedure. Article 209, 210 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72824	Very convincing. With great regret, I can't accept it. Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72825	Mr. Vice President, I was in doubt whether it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure or the Institute of Correction of the False Allegation, but in the end I decided on a replica. You, Mr. Representative, have abused this debate, only at the beginning of the referendum have you spoken something and the second part of the debate has been devoted to criticising the work of the Ministry, commenting on the work of Minister Mlakar, the Ministry of Administration, your dealings with your mayor, Bandic, the price of kindergarten. You absolutely didn't talk about the referendum. And you have completely reversed this debate and this topic in order to elaborate on us here and the public problem that you have in the assembly with your mayor Bandic, it is absolutely inappropriate and I am sorry that the vice president did not warn you about the breach of the Rules of Procedure but only after the debate has been concluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72826	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72827	Thank you, dear fellow Shuica, I hope you do not think it is inappropriate when a representative from the city of Zagreb is talking about a problem that is plagued by 100,000 citizens of this town, and it concerns the work of the Ministry of Administration and waiting every day for the minister to make a decision on who is right. IS to confirm Mayor Bandic's decision to collect kindergartens or confirm the assembly's decision not to collect kindergartens. I hope that's not a disdain for this House because it's a hundred thousand people. And it is about the referendum because such behaviour is solely due to the fact that you can't do anything, you can't question such a elected leader because the referendum is inconclusive. And we ask until the next reading at the Croatian Assembly of the Law on Referendum to be sent to the procedure and the Law on Elections of Local Leaders. IT IS thus possible for citizens, when such a mess is carried out by the head of local self-government in this case of the city of Zagreb in any unit of local self-government that the mandate can be returned to the citizens and that it is conductable. I only asked Mr. Mlakar to make the decision as soon as possible because 100,000 people are waiting. This is what I asked you not to be angry with, I think the interest of the citizens of Zagreb, whom 100 thousand in this case is a little bit larger than whether one sentence in the debate will be spent one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72828	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72829	You have again injured the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative, because you have had the opportunity to discuss this bilaterally with Mr. Minister and ask when this problem will solve for you the citizens of the city of Zagreb, and you have again used this debate not to talk about the referendum or what I was talking about but rather about the city of Zagreb, kindergartens, etc. You've abused the institute's response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72831	Articles 209 and 210 of the replica have been injured, and you can replicate what your companion told you. I've replicated everything Mrs. Shuica said, which is why I've said something, which is why I'm interested in 100,000 Zagrebs and Zagrebs before I spend one sentence one way or another. And tell me, Mrs. Shuica, what's the point of the local referendum on preschool education? Is it then possible to hold a referendum debate? Well, of course it's possible and you can't stop me from talking about my fellow citizens' problems because I'll always say it. And here I asked a public question, because I'm expecting Mr. Mlakar's answer, because he expects a hundred thousand of these people I told you about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72832	Great. There are clear topics that are also very important now at this point, such as the Law on Higher Education, but now it is the subject of the Law on Referendum, and then it cannot be debated about this problem that is related to kindergartens. ... I think it was okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I wouldn't put it in my hand, but I wouldn't put it in the water. HDSSB's Club of Representatives 5 minutes discussion, closing statement, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72833	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As already stated from this pay phone, the HDSSB Club cannot accept such a legal proposal in the first reading for all of the reasons we have said, but also from a nomotechnically unregulated and incorrect legislative proposal, or it is a disrespect and neglect of the Assembly and decisions of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. In the assessment of the situation, it is stated in paragraph 2, that this legislative proposal is based on Articles 86, 132 and 141 of the Constitution. RH, this 16th June Constitution is the latest so. However, this is about Article 87, Article 142 and Article 133 for one more than you wrote here. And it's not the first legal proposal where this mistake is repeated, but it's one set. But when it comes to the referendum law, it's very important and very important. So, it's about saying nomotechnical error, failures however you want or failure to comply with the decision of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, which article 53a added to Article 53a, and it became Article 54 in the new Constitution. Well, you're always wrong about one thing at a time. Check it out and you'll see. Furthermore, for the referendum law clearly, more than clearly, a broad public debate is needed in the Republic of Croatia. You see how many of the kindergartens I have three grandkids who go to Zagreb, to the municipal mayors, mayors, mayors, etc. municipal councils, members of municipal councils, even the councils of local committees, and they are included in these legislative referendum proposals. When we talk about changing the Constitution, so June was last year, here's June before us and that 50 plus 50% voter plus one, it'll never be clear to me that the parliamentary representatives have taken that provision down by last year's vote. We didn't vote for that. She can change again. When the Abolition Act was passed, it was not a referendum on this, the government did not call. It has adopted a unilateral Law on Abolition, although Article 47 clearly states that the military obligation and defence of the Republic of Croatia is the duty of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You have passed the Abolition Act against Article 47 of the Constitution without a referendum. Therefore, do not think that the Constitution cannot be changed. You've shown yourself by example that now this constitutional law on defenders, etc. At least that's how it's announced by the press and the media by electronic means. Therefore, why am I re-emphasizing citizens' mistrust in voting with the EU referendum? What's the point of saying the limit isn't defined at all? So five citizens can come out for a referendum. Three votes in favour, two against, and the decision is made. Or are we afraid of something? We're afraid of arguments and they're gone. We are looking for and we want an explanation of what is signed, i.e. the negotiating platform of the Republic of Croatia is in negotiations in all chapters with the EU. Well, I guess we'd be more clear, then we could throw whatever kind of censor we want if it's well negotiated, if it's good for all Croatian citizens, if each of the Croatian citizens is a worker, farmer, student or pensioner knows what's waiting for them and evaluate the referendum to eat for or against. This is how you see doubt and Priory, perhaps unnecessary, but what it is to sow in the public. When I talk about this unfortunate upheaval and that article in 47 that is not respected in the election of the Abolition Act. The other day I was in Bogdanovci where people complain that for 138 people killed in Bogdanovci before the fall of Vukovar, no one answered, they were all abolized, Mr. Minister, and may the Minister of Justice hear it. Therefore, if you remember that last year's June Constitution when I told the speaker here with the definition that the Homeland War was defensive, that Mr. Shimonovic, where you are sitting now, was told to introduce both the word or the adjective and the liberative. And that's included. Thank you, too. [[Thank you very much.]] Because he was an aggressor with us in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72834	The final review of Minister Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72835	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I have to say this inspired by the debate, unfortunately, what we did in the introduction of the Law on Referendum was not a success, which is something that is important, which is that this law does not apply to the impeachment of the mayor, the mayoral mayor or the mayor. I think we've spent most of our time on this particular subject, and it's not the subject of this law. We also said in the introduction that this issue would be resolved by the only way to say it by natural means, by natural law, means the Law on Elections of the Executive Authority at local and regional level, because if this law regulates their choice then it is logical to regulate these laws and their impeachment, not the Law on Local Self-Government, as some have proposed even the conclusion. So there is no need, the government is aware that this issue should be regulated differently, that it should be avoided from comparing it to holding a referendum and then all the legal assumptions for holding a referendum and that it should introduce a new institution of electoral recall or recalling the head of the executive at the local level to settle the issue. You have also set up the logic of some relations and the direct selection of executive heads in the debates, and today it is questionable how much this solution has helped or helped some work at local level, given the differences, particularly political, in the work of the executive and representative bodies at local level. But that is why we think that this solution is already on these existing foundations calling off a good solution and that we can arrange in a quality way how any of these leaders at local level will eventually be resolved. The second question is what has been pollemized and often pointed out, some have polluted with existing solutions in the law. You have presented a whole series of suggestions on how to edit something, you consider it bad, and when there was an opportunity in 2011, and when the referendum law was passed, which actually complicated the previous referendum procedure, you did not offer such a solution and you did not enter. And that is why we think that these solutions are now proposed and from the beginning we are saying that we are not opposed to discussing in two readings, we have achieved the purpose of the law, and that we have in some way better placed relations at local and regional level. These are some of the principles that we've stuck to proposing this law, contrary to what we've been said to have calculated by deadlines, that the Parliament is sitting on a permanent basis. This I do not think should be heard from our representatives at all, and precisely because the Parliament is meeting twice a year, there is a break from 15 July to 15 September, we have prescribed that the deadline for a referendum decision may be those 120 days because it may put into question the Parliament's decision, some proposal to call a referendum just before the disbandment, a summer break of Parliament's work. That's why it's 120 days and I don't think he entered the law in order to manipulate the final decision on the referendum. As regards the size they have often mentioned, 1/3 of the municipal councils, it is 1/3 of the council's proposal for a decision-making decision, and the same law stipulates that the decision is taken by a half-way majority of all members of the Council, which means 1/3 of the initiative, and it is always a decision-making process so far that most of the council members who decide on a specific issue here when it comes to local or regional referendums. And we're thinking, the government is thinking that it proposed a quality text, of course we think that it can always be further clarified, arranged or made better, and the government doesn't blush because of it, and thank God Mr. Vinkovic is not a member of the government, so there's no reason to blush. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72836	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72837	We are going to vote on the debated and closed agenda points. We move to the Final Proposal for a referendum law, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 784, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system proposes to the Croatian Parliament that this legislative proposal be adopted regularly. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted this proposal. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee and the views of the Government, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a referendum law is hereby adopted. 2. All comments, proposals and opinions presented at the session of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft law. 3. It is recommended that the Government of the Republic of Croatia submit amendments and additions to the relevant laws, which would regulate the calling and implementation of the referendum on the resolution of the executive authority in the units of local and regional (regional) self-government." Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal for a conclusion. The result? These conclusions were adopted by a majority of 93 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 2 against as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72838	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 792 The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, justice and European integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. You have before you the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, an extremely important law and a law that regulates the procedure before our courts when someone sets a claim for the protection of their rights or interests, whether it be a working dispute, whether it be an property-law dispute, whether it be a protection of property rights, family matters. So in all these reasons when we see very many people appear before the court just to protect their rights and interests. What the goal is, the aim is for the judiciary to solve such rights and interests in fast procedures because if the procedure takes a long time, if the verdict comes after a long time then we actually come into a situation where the state doesn't work, that people don't get a decision in time about their demands and that justice that comes slowly, which comes too late, is actually an injustice in itself. I must say, as far as civil cases are concerned, the Law on litigation regulates the handling of civil, civil cases, that we, indeed as the Republic of Croatia, had a large number of pending cases there in 2004, which is about a million and 600. We have now actually in all these years significantly reduced that number, now we are to 700 and some thousand unsolved items, but again within that number we need to make very clear differences and we should say that only 80,000 items are those that are older than 3 years, those classic civil objects and these are the objects that we put focus on and we actually work on through the action plan and we want these items to be resolved as soon as possible. The government has detected exactly the courts where such a number of cases are the largest and in these courts we have seen that we are human beings quite deficient. Despite the recession, despite all the austerity measures on these courts, we have hired a certain number of judges and urinals and scribes, and already the results are visible. If on the day of 31.12.2010 in the Republic of Croatia there were about 84,000 unsolved civil cases older than 3 years only in the first three months of this year, we have reduced that number by 14000 and are not yet full of the employment effects we have spent on these large courts and we expect this trend to continue for the next few years we believe that we will solve these cases. But, of course, new items are coming and new items need to be dealt with as well. It must not be allowed for them to enter into some kind of long-term procedure. And that's why before you today there are amendments to the Law of Prosecution. The Law on the Procedural Procedure has been significantly amended both in 2003 and 2008 and we have already introduced certain mechanisms and certain tools so that these litigation procedures can go faster and that the cases can be resolved faster. Now, in 2008, in 2011, we have one reference period where we can assess what measures are, what results are achieved by introducing all these measures. And we are actually proposing to these amendments to the law to further improve the process. The law on litigation he offered on the one hand and a whole series of good mechanisms for judges to carry out quick procedures. But on the other hand, he also offered a whole series of mechanisms to actually stretch out and stall and to submit various different requirements that they actually had sometimes, because there are always two sides in the process. One has one interest, the other has another interest. One has a requirement for the procedure to go faster, and the other actually has a desire to do it a little bit, to stretch it a little bit. And on this side of these amendments to the law, we propose very powerful instruments that we would speed up the litigation process and that we would actually bring down, means the possibilities of some kind of abuse of procedural rights to the least possible extent. I'm going to say the most important changes very briefly. It is one of the basics to introduce the possibility of a tone recording of the main debate. Namely, you all know when we have an oral discussion in a particular case then we have a writer and, for example, a witness explains the facts, and then the judge dictates to the scribe and the scribe then enters all that text into the case itself in the record. By introducing this mechanism, it means that we can record in tone, we would speed up the debate, we would shorten the time, and the judge would then decide in those important, large cases that everything that is said to be actually being done within a certain 8-day period as it is supposed to be put in writing. If there were any objections within eight days the party could say no, I didn't say this but I said something else. So that's one of the newspapers we're introducing. This also applies a directive of the European Commission which is significant. This is the Directive of 16 February 2011. But what we need, what's significant here, is we're going to have to provide material resources in order to introduce the possibility of tonic recording on all vessels. And clearly depending on the amount of funds we have, we will be able to use that instrument in individual courts. Further important newspapers are the introduction of a collective interest and rights claim institute and are subject to certain associations and bodies, institutions or other organisations established in accordance with the law, which, as part of their registered or prescribed activities, provide special legal protection to the European Union's standards of protection of established collective interests and rights. And by doing so, we are introducing in our legislation Directive 2011 of 16 February 2011, which is the Directive on the fight against late payment in business transactions, and in part concerning procedural provisions, so that entrepreneurship will, in particular, have little and medium-sized legal protection against courts in accordance with the criteria and standards of this Directive. However, as we have already said, this opens up the possibility of the same legal protection and those associations that we have already talked about. Also, this is an extremely important provision for these amendments to the Law on a litigation procedure where we introduce a ban on multiple suspension of the judgment on appeal. We have already narrowed the space significantly in recent changes in 2008 and have narrowed down the possibility that second-degree courts may suspend the cases and return to the beginning. It is a very strong instrument, because very often over complaints county courts, second-degree courts have abolished first-degree rulings and returned the case to retrial. And that's when the trial starts from the beginning. Once again, a first-degree ruling is passed, and then the first-degree new one has the possibility of appeal again. And so it was known in these more complex objects to happen three, four times return to retrial. And clearly, it produced exactly this kind of long-term trial. We have made very clear with the latest amendments of 2008 when it is abolished and returned to the retrial then this second-degree court is obliged to give a very precise instruction that that court in the retrial is to re-implement, which evidence is to be carried out, which facts are still to be analysed. And now that we've done the analysis, we see that there are certain improvements, but in any case, space for progress. And with this one change, we now say in these special procedures, and these are procedures related to labour rights, related to family rights and regarding commercial rights, and here we said it is possible to abolish only once after appeal and only once return to a retrial. If the second complaint were, then the second-degree court must make a measurement decision. That's what we think we're covering three important areas. I don't have to say how sensitive the issue of labour law is, where people are actually very often concerned with the existence of someone who asks for a cancellation, for example, of a decision to cancel or pay a salary. Then I don't have to say how important it is in family matters when someone's looking for alimony when they're looking for a child's restraint. So this is what we're really speeding up. And especially in the commercial matters where we see that in long-term procedures, many assets and not small funds are frozen in these appeal procedures because decisions are actually not justifiable, but decisions actually return to the retrial of the appeal. Now here we say it is possible to return to the retrial, but again by looking at those provisions that we have. Only if there's an excuse, if there's some important evidence to be carried out or some important process operation that's important. If so, then to another appeal so that the second-degree court in these special cases could no longer do so. We specifically regulated the revision, the revision as an extraordinary legal remedy, we would have told the latest revision changes also in one special way, and now after two years of application of the law we see that certain interventions need to be made and the revision is very often also abused, let's be honest when we look at it, the revision is very often and abused, it is tolerated and then there are no objective reasons, but it's just to get a little bit of a process, to get some request for a postponement or such a situation, and now we've raised that asset censorship here, meaning 200 thousand kuna in those items that cross 200 thousand kuna can be audited, and here I would say in some practice that is also in the environment. We do not, in fact, close the possibility of coming to a higher court, because we have, in addition, these other provisions where we allow an audit if there are issues on which the Supreme Court has not yet taken a stand, no practice, or, secondly, if there is an opinion, there is a position, there is a practice, and in a second-degree decision is different from that practice. Or thirdly, if there is a practice, but there are international decisions actually made by these judicial institutions that are different, here we open up the possibility that even then there is a revision. So I think we've now arranged the revision in a much better way, where it will be used as an extraordinary legal remedy, and then when it really makes sense, and to avoid again the possibility of that institute being abused. Besides the other changes, there's a whole series of changes to the smaller volume, but they're not less significant. For example, a precise jurisdiction has been established between municipal and commercial courts, so it will avoid unnecessary circulation of the file between these two courts, and prevent a delay in proceedings, then the possibility of a court settlement is prescribed until the legal end of the dispute, so also during the proceedings before the second-degree court. This is where we would like to achieve more significant steps in making a settlement, in a peaceful settlement of disputes, because it is actually much better to regulate disputed relations between parties in a peaceful process, because we are not closing the doors to some business cooperation, because when the case is settled in court, it is very often known to produce bad relations between parties and to question some future cooperation and future relations between parties. We have a good legal framework, we have a new Law on Peace, we have institutions of rest is possible to implement both in courts and outside courts, so in the Centre for Peace in the Croatian Chamber, the Chamber of Commerce, we have actually done training and educated a whole series of peacemakers, and in the future I believe that we will have much better results than we have now. We have harmonised certain terms and nomotechnical terms, we have made these certain improvements, and we have regulated certain things about costs and brought this law into line with the law on free legal aid, and we have also harmonised this law regarding the Family Law and the Law on Courts, which is not impossible, it is not technically possible, it is not the first case that one law actually regulates or enforces the provisions of certain other laws, which are procedurally and characterically related to this matter. Here we will be precious to all the proposals, your opinions, indeed an extremely important law, this law I say is the aim of making the procedural right as fast as possible, as efficient as possible, and we want the procedures in which these important requirements before our courts, related therefore to property rights, both for work and for family, and for property rights, will be dealt with in an important, important, rapid manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72840	Thank you. I'm interrupting the session, continuing at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72841	Comrades and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, once again, good day to you. And we continue to discuss the amendment and the completion of the Law on Prosecution. We heard the opening argument. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished colleague Josip Leko. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives of the proposings, colleagues and fellow MPs. I think that the PPP, the Law of Prosecution, is one of the most important laws. So it's a law directly in the service of the market, so directly in the service of citizens and legal entities. I think it is very valuable and important to mention that everything that goes towards a more effective completion of proceedings before the courts is well supported and that it comes into force as soon as possible. The truth is, this proposal has one flaw, and I'm going to say it right now, there's no means to enforce the law. We have to stress that, and it has to be found in the record. So the very important thing is that they're not insured funds. However, the SDP club supports this bill and why not say it believes that it has introduced the paper very well in the litigation process in the Republic of Croatia. Despite the fact that this 11th supplement and amendment is the Law on a litigation procedure, it is mainly about supplements. So now it's time to think about a full project of litigation, the Law on a litigation procedure. So ten changes have already been so far, changes and additions, this is eleventh. And this eleventh really introduces a few important things. Already, the minister mentioned in the introduction that technological progress, technical and technological progress, is being introduced in the conduct of the case. It's a tone recording of the debate. An absolutely good newspaper that will ensure a more accurate debate and, as I say, leaves the possibility that the impression is not created through a transcript, through a letter, through a record, rather than from a video record. Which is very good. And for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I could say that in some ways it is a revolutionary newspaper in the Law on the Procedural Procedure, it is the introduction of an institute for the protection of collective interests and rights. So, in the conflict of capital of a competition game where profit becomes a purpose of work, thank God that the Institute came to sue for the protection of collective rights and interests, so I could now predict that it will end the dispute between air pollutants in one of our cities, say in refineries, and citizens in air protection and the right to clean air and the environment. Or as it ends, let's not guess, let's say those companies that have emissions of harmful gases or how they end up litigating water and soil pollution. In any case, it is good, it is a common interest of society, and that measure, that is, we strongly support it. The third thing that the bill envisions is the abolition of the possibility of multiple suspension of judgments in order to resolve the current situation more effectively with cases in the Croatian judiciary, but also with a view to disciplining parties in the litigation process, participants in the litigation process, it is very important to introduce such a measure, to immediately come out with arguments, facts with which the parties are available, disposing. Of course, in such a situation, it is logical to increase the number so to say the injury to the essential infringements of the judicial procedure that the court is looking after under official duty. Of course, there is still a need to highlight the review as an extraordinary legal remedy and it is very valuable to mention that the parties have a good audit and that there is a reduction in the number of cases where the audit can be declared. So, all in all, regardless of the 11th amendment of the law on litigation procedure, it is welcome, regardless of whether the financial resources in the budget are provided, so it will not be possible to implement the law as necessary, without a reservation, we can show support for this Act and we will vote for its adoption. Here's not to be too long and not to be complicated, anything else that might be necessary to say I'll probably be in the amendments... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72843	Thank you very much, fellow Leakey. On behalf of the HNSU Club, distinguished colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72844	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill of law that we can say freely and where we've been. Namely, says counterpart Leko, these are the 11th Amendments to the Law on Prosecution, it is almost incredible that so far it has been possible to change 10 times this Law that it has not been seen, that these very changes that are now on the table have not been made. In the long run, it is rare that the amendment of the Law on the litigation process will have an impact on the increase of the popularity of Croatian courts such as those proposed by these amendments and amendments, because it is only that in some way it prohibits multiple suspension of judgments in special procedures on relation to the first and second stage, only that changes in the root review provisions as an extraordinary legal remedy can significantly contribute to the length of the trial in the Republic of Croatia being reduced to the least possible but always reasonable measure. Because what we have now, that multiple times the decision of a higher court can return the verdict to a lower court and that he can without any problem repeat his original disputed verdict incessantly insane. My colleague Leko said this is a law that is extremely important for the economy, I would say not only that. The long-term and long-term litigation primarily kills citizens' confidence in the efficiency of the legal system. Because if justice is as slow and for some to live and unattainable as we are in the trials, then it's all just not paying for the citizens' trust that their problem will be solved justly and within a reasonable time. And not just that. Long-term trials, in this particular case, especially in the case of family crimes, therefore criminal acts and acts that are resolved in a court of law, prolong the agony of family decay. It is directly traumatic for family members, especially for children, because they are those who suffer and whose actual functioning of schooling is also linked to court decisions. What needs to be pointed out here is that the proposed border and supplement can and we hope that it will significantly shorten the overall length of the trial in a whole series of cases that today are actually recognised as ribbons, regardless of which it was quite simple, only in one family of widespread problems, or it was about judicial proceedings being conducted because of the economic interests and damage claims of heavy millions and millions of kunas, where it was actually hundreds of jobs but also the health of hundreds or thousands of people, etc. What we want to point out in particular is the possibility of modernising the litigation process itself by introducing a tone record. However, what is not fully resolved by these amendments or additions by introducing new articles of 126a. up to 126c. is whether the recording of the recording is part of the court's file or not. In this case, it is said that the tone of the hearing is part of the court case file, so it is immediately available to the parties, but further in the explication in Article 126c. This cannot be seen analoguely in the transcription of the tonne video because it says here that parties may request a copy of the tonne recording within 8 days of the day the tonne is made up. We assume that the applicant had in mind a situation which is further reflected in the next sentence, which is that if the copy of the tonne recording and the tonne recording is significantly different, the party has the right to object within 8 days of the date of delivery of the transcription, the objection should be reasoned. So it would be perfectly normal if there were deadlines in which the parties could express themselves, show their reserve according to the prescribed tone record for one reason or another, and perhaps the copyist or copyist misheard or some foreign name was misrepresented and misspelled. So in this sense, setting deadlines makes sense because you can't ask for a few years later to correct a copy of the tone, but if this is the way the provision of this Article 126.c is consistently implemented, then that means that the party in the proceedings after 8 days can no longer ask for a copy of the tone sense, which is nonsense. For where Article 126c is set out in paragraph 1 that the tone shall be transmitted and in written form within 8 days of the day of the recording, it shall be deposited somewhere, then no longer constitute any particular effort so that a copy of such copy is given to the parties in the procedure, irrespective of whether they request it within 8 days or within 80 days. Therefore, we assume that the applicant wanted to limit the deadlines in the case of a request for correction in the tone record or in the copy of the tone record, but we do not see why the parties in the process could not have been given a copy after 8 days. What we want to point out here in particular is one precedent to which we have not witnessed at least not in this term of the Croatian Parliament. Although, at the outset, the minister stated, in the light of this proposal, that until now, it has been a practice that, in the transitional and final provisions of certain laws, the provisions of several laws, not only of law amending or supplementing here, we have an entirely unusual situation to change the provisions of other laws. So, according to that logic, these should actually be the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on litigation, the Law on Courts, the Family Law, that should be the full name. And that should be the full name. And that's not the case so far, and we don't have that practice to change three others by one law. We may also agree to do so in the future because it would technically simplify things, but let’s not close our eyes to the fact that it will introduce a complete rsomone and that it will no longer be followed by what is said in the amended and updated regulation. Let us look at what is happening, for example, as a consequence of the General Administrative Procedure Act. So how many of us have changed the law in recent weeks because the Law on General Administrative Procedure has been amended and how much we will only change them because it comes as a tape, it was consequently simply the government's task to bring all other laws in line with, in one way or another, the question of administrative procedure or procedure towards citizens after these changes. According to that logic, one law should have been passed, which would have included all the provisions in those other laws that do not comply with those amendments and additions, but we did not do so because it is not normal because it is not a practice or other parliaments. Therefore, I think that it should simply drop in the transitional and final provisions of Article 51 and Article 52. Because they say the Law on Courts adds the article and the article in the Family Law to this article and to this article and the new article is added. That's extremely unusual. We are not for this practice and we cannot agree to it because it is the introduction of a way of working that would significantly disabling the so far established technology of work of the Croatian Parliament. That's why, Mr. Minister, you have the option at this time, except for us who can make it an amendment to prevent it in one sentence, and nothing costs you but a little extra effort to suggest to the government next week that these two articles should be found in special two laws and that they go through the normal procedure as appropriate and always so far as changes in one law could reflect on several legal texts. Please do this because it will make an important contribution to the amendment of this proposal and the addition of the Law on the litigation process to obtain consensus support in the Croatian Parliament. I don't think you should miss that chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72845	Thank you. Correction of the quote of colleague Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72846	I am correcting the incorrect allegations of my colleague Beus, and I believe that this is a lapus because you said that, in analogous to this article in Article 51 of this Law, by harmonising with the Law on Administrative Procedure, it could have made one law adjudicating the provisions of all the laws. No, I don't. This isn't about analizing other laws, it's about adding articles from other laws to be precise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72847	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ advocates' club and distinguished colleague Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72848	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support the Amendments and Supplements Act proposal, although this is how we heard the 11th, and it seems to me that it is not the 11th amendment, but it is enough to expect a new Law on Prosecution because it is really becoming difficult to apply in this form and to continue to change and supplement it in view of the originals. So I think it's about the eighth amendment to this law. But of all these changes, I would say that two such thorough and important statements were made by this law in 2003 and 2008. These changes have always gone in the direction of the aim of speeding up the litigation process and making it effective. Namely, this is one of the most important judicial laws, hence the procedural law in the area of civil law. The art is balanced, and it always seeks to ensure, on the one hand, a fundamental human right, which is the right to a fair trial, to ensure that citizens have access to the court, and on the other hand, to find the right measures and rights of restrictions in order to prevent the abuse of rights or to prevent such things. Hanging litigation. It's not easy to find that balance. This is also shown by all these changes and efforts, here and the key changes in 2008, namely all these changes we try to make this process effective, we try to set the institutes procedural, but we also try and allow the judge to actually have instruments to be the real master of the conduct of this process. Of course all these years, since '91. So, to this day and economic life has changed both the means of communication and the way of life and economic relations, so all this leads to one new relationship and among citizens in civil law, but also to new economic relations, as well as the relationships of entities of commercial law that then require these changes. Now that we have observed for years that there is a problem and that this is one of the reasons for the length of the proceedings, the ones we often say that lasts more than 5, 6, 10 years, is a large number of suspension decisions of second-degree courts. Therefore, for some reasons following the first-degree ruling, a complaint shall go to the second-degree court. There, for procedural reasons or reason for insufficient facts, the verdicts are lifted, re-determined, a first-degree verdict is re-produced, re-appealed, and so on several occasions. Over a number of years, it is thought that this process law abolishs the possibility of multiple termination. Of course, that also calls for certain logistics moves, namely insurance and conditions for the operation of second-degree courts and the number of judges that a second-degree court may, in all cases, require the circumstances of a particular case and case, so that it can conduct a hearing. This today's proposal, which is ahead of us, introduces this as a newspaper in the procedural law, hence banring the abolition or the possibility of only being abolished once, but for now only for certain procedures, therefore of work, trade and family. Of course, the legislator and aware of the inability to introduce it for all proceedings has limited itself to those we consider and we agree with that, which we consider most important in working disputes for the reason why it is really existential issues. In trade disputes we had, very often we could hear cases where, after 5, 6, 8 years, individual economic operators had blocked funds, millions of funds because they were waiting to settle a dispute which is actually illegal in the economy, and in that case that justice was actually an injustice. And of course in family relationships that are particularly sensitive. I therefore welcome this provision, but I must say that both the actions so far and the constant supervisions of the Ministry of Justice, where several years ago, for the first time, statistical monitoring of the resolution in the second instance was introduced, so that the reasons for the abolition of the first-degree rulings were systematically monitored, so whether the reasons for the easy accession were, or indeed, justified reasons for the first-degree rulings being abolished. Therefore, the 2008 amendments already introduced a provision under which second-degree courts were obliged to give a clear guidance and order to a first-degree court in which direction and what exactly should be done in a repeated procedure so that the procedure is not decommissioned and that it does not last again several years, so that, precisely, it deliberately abolishes the judgments and returns to the retrial. And here, when we have a statistical report here that monitors the number of judgments that have been lifted and it is seen that this surveillance actually results and that since 2008 when that percentage was 22% in 2010 it has been reduced to 18.5%, so by consistent implementation and amended provisions, but also by constant supervision and education of judges at the judicial academy workshops. Another important novel of what we have heard about, this law is indeed the introduction of a claim for the protection of collective interests and rights, an extremely important newspaper which enables the bodies and associations that are registered, which are established under the law, that is, the condition, and are also registered, or are governed by the regulation to deal with activities, the protection of the laws of established collective interests. So, first of all, we are thinking about trade unions, consumer protection associations, various professional chambers where they wouldn't then come into a situation like so far it was that, on the same factual and legal basis, the exact same court was buried with about 3,000 lawsuits, because there was no other way than for each person to file a lawsuit individually and by name. It is also one of the measures that will certainly contribute to the efficiency of the procedure. Furthermore, the number of absolutely significant infringements of the procedure has been expanded to ensure further legal action, to ensure legal action, and thus to include in the relevant procedural infringements a case has been included if the court has decided on the occasion of an ineligible action or if it has not been brought before the action was brought under the law provided for in a peaceful or different exercise of law. It is important that the court also has to keep an eye on this in the second degree of official duty, regardless of the party's proposal. The newspaper we've already heard about is a tone recording. It certainly contributes to the faster and more efficient conduct of the process. Of course, at first sight it may confuse the sentence in its reasoning that there is no necessary means to implement this Act, although we are sure that the funds will be needed and that technical security will be required to implement this recording, but probably the Ministry of Justice, having this in mind, is a greater project in the budget, so there will be no need for additional funding. Further important newspapers are the provisions on the revision of this Act, namely, in practice we saw that the revision actually came down to the third degree of decision although it is not its essence. Therefore, after the power of judgment, the review is an extraordinary legal remedy which can be lodged under the precise conditions laid down in this Act. Census' property was raised by the proposal of this Act to 200 thousand kuna, of course, the revision remains allowed always in the dispute on the existence of an employment contract, i.e. the termination of a working relationship or to determine the existence of a working relationship, again for reasons because it is a particularly sensitive existential issue. In this way, it may appear, at first sight, that the revision is disabled by one large number of persons, however, remains in Article 38(2) of the proposal of this Act, which states that the revision is allowed and in cases where it cannot be submitted in accordance with the property censorship provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article, but the parties may submit an audit against a second-degree ruling if the decision in the dispute depends on the resolution of a material or procedural legal issue relevant for ensuring the uniform application of the right and equality of all in its application, and the law now lists it, for example, which means that it is not precisely tax-defined and that other similar reasons are opened. So, in this way, access to the Supreme Court is aimed at equating case-law if it happens, and what happens in practice is that different solutions are in front of a particular county court, but this has not been resolved yet and this should be taken into account in some future amendment of the law, so we have not resolved the situation which in practice was known to happen. So, when someone because of the property censorship had no possibility of investing in the audit and, in the same factual and legal basis, somewhere where the higher value of the dispute was allowed to be audited, and when the Supreme Court established a different legal position that the cases actually ruled were forever determined in the way that the Supreme Court should not be, therefore, there may be a need to consider extending the reasons for the renewal of the proceedings but, of course, it should be systematically brought into line with the provisions of this procedural law. So, for all of these reasons, because we think that these amendments and additions to the Law on Procedural Procedure will ensure further progress in the effectiveness and speed of dispute resolution, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this Act as one of the measures towards this objective, and here we look forward to every time in every new report by the Ministry of Justice on the reduction of the number of cases lagging behind, the reduction of the number of cases that are older than 5 years, i.e. from 10 and even about unresolved cases, we see significant and significant progress so now we have about 130 thousand pending litigations because all those cases that are in the statistics run around 700 thousand are actually not complex litigre cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72849	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the club applications and we're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Ivo Grbic answered first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72850	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in the procedure of adoption under emergency procedure. The urgency of the procedure is justified by the fact that the proposed law further aligns the Croatian legislation with the European Union rules. The Law on litigation regulates the rules of procedure on the basis of which the Court discusses and decides disputes on the fundamental rights of human and citizen, personal and family relations with labour trade, property and other civil legal disputes. Since its adoption in 1991, the law has seen a number of changes, and the most significant changes since 2003 and 2008 have been made to significantly speed up litigation procedures. These amendments and additions are therefore more difficult to achieve an effective litigation procedure, so the possibility of tonic recording of the main debate is proposed to facilitate and make it a credible evidence process and to be conducted gradually in accordance with the possibilities. It is an important paper, the introduction of an institute for the protection of collective interests and rights in order to provide organisations, bodies, institutions, organisations with special legal protection according to Union standards. As part of registered activities in the protection of the laws of established collective interests and the rights of citizens. It is also important to introduce a ban on multiple abolition of judgments in special procedures in such a way that the first-degree verdict can be lifted only once, this proposal will find its place especially in work disputes. This proposal may also withdraw the action after the main debate has been concluded until the decision is finalised. Furthermore, there has been an increase in the number of absolute... injuries in the appeal procedure for which the court guards by official duty. Valuation criteria for the authorisation of audits have been increased. The jurisdiction between municipal and commercial courts is clearly established, giving the possibility to enter into a court settlement until the dispute is concluded. The parties refer to peace, not only courts, but centres for peace outside the courts. I am based on this opinion that these amendments and additions offer major improvements in order to achieve greater efficiency in the conduct of the litigation process and to speed up litigation procedures as a whole. I will therefore support the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on the litigation procedure with the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72851	Thank you very much. A fellow representative, Damir Sesvečan, applied for the debate next. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72852	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, first of all, when it comes to litigation, I would like to point out that the litigation procedure is actually a regular pathway of legal protection for vulnerable or injured subjective civil rights. As the jurisdiction of courts in civil and legal matters is guaranteed by the Constitution of Article 1. The law on litigation provides that courts are to debate and decide in disputes on the personal and family relations of citizens and in working property and other civil and legal disputes unless the law provides for some of these disputes to be settled by the court under the rules of which other proceedings. In fact, this means that the litigation method is primary and is generally prejudiced against other procedural methods applied by courts in civil and legal disputes. As far as the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on a litigation procedure ahead of us are concerned, we would like to further speed up the litigation process and make it even more effective. The law is proposed to be adopted on an urgent basis for further compliance with the European Union regulations, inter alia, with part of the EU Directive 211/07 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011. Also, these amendments and additions to the laws continue on the latest 2003 and 2008 novels that also introduced a series of newspapers and a series of improvements aimed at speeding up the litigation process. Among other things, a number of procedures were carried out in the first degree, second-degree procedure as well as the procedure before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, this law proposes, among other things, to prescribe the possibility of a delegation of second-degree courts. An option is introduced, as has already been said, in tone recording of the hearing. It is proposed to introduce a new institute for the protection of collective interests and rights. Also, a ban would be imposed on multiple suspensions of judgments in special procedures. An increase of absolutely significant injuries in the appeal procedure is proposed for two more. So, which the court should take into account under official duty. To a large extent, the provisions on the revision as an exceptional legal remedy are amended. A number of other weather and nomotechnical improvements are also proposed. Therefore, since this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure introduces significant changes, further improvements and newspapers, which I believe will contribute to the quality and speed of the litigation process, which, of course, affects the confidence of citizens in the rule of law and the rule of law. I will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72853	Thank you very much. counterpart Emil Tomljanovic also called for a debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72854	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will also say at the beginning, pointing out that this law absolutely needs to be supported, because it really introduces new legal solutions, legal solutions, so the Law on a litigation procedure which is of quality and which should be made possible. So, shortening the time needed to conduct a lawsuit, deciding in concrete litigation cases. But not just that. In its essence, there are a whole series of institutes that are not only new, but also quality and in a new way approach this problem and solve the problems observed in a quality way. Let me not repeat myself, to point out only four that seem unusually important to me, unusually significant. The first one is, my colleagues already mentioned it. So, removing the possibility of multiple elimination through... What's really going on here, we've already had a chance to hear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there will be no more possibility that two, three, four, and even more times return to appeal cases for first-degree decision-making. The possibility is actually opened that after an appeal that was once accepted in the second, repeated procedure. So the second-degree court decides on the measure of things. So judge what will, therefore, shorten the litigation itself, or the time needed to make the rightful decision. I think it's a very important paper and I think it's really going to shorten the time it takes to end a particular lawsuit. Another very important thing that colleagues have also pointed out is a complete newspaper in terms of the provisions of the Law on Prosecution and I think it deserves our special attention, which is a lawsuit for the protection of collective agreements and rights. One specific lawsuit that will actually enable associations, registered associations, all those who will have such legitimacy to file these charges, that actually these collective disputes that were not few, in which sometimes they cover dozens and more people who want to exercise their rights from the same factual and legal substrate. So this is one newspaper that will allow for a faster, more comprehensive, more quality way of conducting a litigation procedure and ultimately making a decision in a litigation procedure. The third thing is the revision as an extraordinary legal remedy that is defined in a new way not only in terms of increasing the amount of money needed at that time. So, 2,000 kuna in litigation and 500,000 kuna in trade disputes. Therefore, the value of the case of the dispute which must be in order to be able to declare the audit. I think the essence of something else is quite different and I think it's one quality shift, which is that from the same fact and legal substrate can't bring different... at the level of county or secondary courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the point because in such situations always, regardless of the strict law, a condition is laid down when an audit as an extraordinary remedy can be declared. In these situations, it can be declared. And what does that point us to? This guides us past, so far, practice and past the constitutional and legal provisions so far, that the courts judge on the basis of the Constitution and the law, so this is about introducing a litigative procedure of the institute, i.e. the precedent, or the presidential little system in an excellent way in my opinion, and that is to say that this extraordinary legal remedy allows us to intervene the Supreme Court by means of an extraordinary legal remedy when it is explained or when in reality it is that we have the same factual and legal substrate in one situation, two different decisions, which are indeed inadmissible, and precisely these legal solutions, amendments to the provisions on the revision and does not allow, which is absolutely acceptable as such a solution. And finally, to support it are those provisions in the law itself that always point out the settlement as one quality solution to each dispute, each litigation, so there are instruments that, simply in the case, which they are pursuing, want to achieve their rights by law, in a sense stimulates that before the court, and even other bodies conclude a settlement in which they would also end the dispute, end a dispute that is actually being fought by a lawsuit. In conclusion, this law should be absolutely supported, it is a quality law, it will indeed, with its instruments, allow for a reduction of leadership, a reduction of time for the conduct of litigation procedures, I think it is another, one legal solution that will very quickly lead us to have fewer and fewer, fewer unsolved cases, and that is ultimately for all of us. And let me at the very end that at the very least they will be aware of the possibility of long-term conduct of the procedure, because indeed one of the characteristics of justice, is often... Especially from these benches with these concepts against justice, there is no greater injustice than late justice, and we all need to make sure that these deadlines, the time to come to justice, in this case, are as small as possible, because if they are long or too long, of course, it's not about any justice, it's about injustice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72855	Thank you very much to my colleague Tomljanović. The debate was further applied for by the distinguished colleague, Silvano Hrelja. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72856	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not very much interested in praising the bill, but this time it seems like I'm going to have to make an exception, although not entirely, and it would be my pleasure to do it entirely. In fact, here a man cannot remain indifferent to this proposal to amend and supplement the law, for several reasons. And it doesn't bother at all because it's on the agenda by emergency procedure, because something essentially wants to change, because here in proposing changes and additions I'm sure a highly consulted profession, because they've given their opinion to people of the profession, so people who are practically living these litigation procedures, and it's very commendable for the ministry that as much good practice can be passed into the laws. I hope and want to share my optimism with you, that one version of the version of the Croatian people is that justice is slow, yet available, we will change into another version that justice is accessible, fast and effective. I'd like to experience that time in my homeland. So I have to simply share that optimism with you, and I really want this law to sort of sail in a restless sea of justice full of sails, because it really has good foundations. It is important that the legislator estimated that the reduction in the time of the trial is more important than their overall productivity, and none of this could be given a reasonable objection. Thus, shortening the time of the trial is the most important element of the litigation process. Of course, I am pleased that in combination with more measures that this law takes, this law will allow for a better and better working trial, whether it will be a specialised division of courts in the finals, or special working courts, which I doubt would be a financial and additional burden, and I think that we are not exactly at the time when we could afford it, but with a combination of this second element, which is a joint lawsuit that significantly explains the collective work dispute that the judge might have had to decide on, and I mean in combination with these two new institutes that can make a working trial very simple and effective, and, above all, with the fact that labour disputes will also be in the event of bankruptcy, if they start to seek workers in the work dispute, continue to be held in municipal courts. Of course, this association lawsuit institute is also very interesting for some other circumstances of defining the quality of life of citizens, as Mr Leko says, whether it is about the emissions of harmfulness in the atmosphere, whether it is about pollution of the river, whether it is about the usurpation of state land, whether it is about re-use, surely this joint lawsuit will be a quality institute that will in some way ensure the satisfaction of various citizens' interest rights, whether they go as a particular set of citizens, whether they are represented by a certain association. Furthermore, it is important to say that it is very good in this law that disputes of less value, up to 5, or up to 10 thousand kuna, have been distinguished, and that the complaint will practically not be delayed, and that it has been set up, so the new height that needs to be skipped in order to, or the value of the dispute, activate the review of the verdict. Of course, it is also a matter of commending a kind of ping-pong between county courts and municipal courts where only once can this happen now, because if, in a retrial when the County Court returns to the Municipal Court if, in a repeated case, the County Court once again considers it to be an incorrect verdict then the Court will have to complete the County Court. So these are all good things. What is frustrating to me, and I said so, and my colleague Beus is in the opening statement in front of the club, a pardon in front of the HNS-HSU club, which is articles 51 and 52, because by formulating these articles we don't put beyond the power of the articles of other laws, as it was common in the law on the taking over of other laws from the former state, as is common in a special law which is put outside the scope of the provisions of the Peace Law on non-compliance of pensions, unfortunately put out of force, but we have settled this with a special law. This is about something else. This is where this law defines changes. In particular, Article 51 states: "The Law on Courts in Article 10 adds paragraph 6. This law therefore amends Article 10(6) of the Court Act. In accordance with Article 52 of the Family Law, Article 266 is replaced by the following: So, that's unusual, we haven't met that in this House yet. And so, we're going to give an amendment outside the HNS-HSU club to delete this and to settle in Family Law, so all this stuff here is said to be settled in Family Law and in the Law in Courts. Because when harmonizing with the Administrative Procedure Act we had to do 60 and more laws then the same rule, the same principle should apply here. We just haven't met this in the procedure in the Croatian Parliament yet, so it's frustrating, but regardless of the value of this law, I can't overshadow these two articles. It is our recommendation and our amendment, so the question is the legitimacy of this law to change the articles of other laws, but the value of this law is much greater than possible of this error. That's why I'm happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72857	Thank you. Not every newspaper should be frustrating, it is also encouraging because it is now being debated. We have an application for a replica, my colleague Tomljanovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, to a respected colleague, I'd like to rephrase it, I think I should replicate it in this section when he mentioned the provisions of the law of this one that changes or complements the provisions of another law. In fact, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, I must tell you that the Legislative Committee has seen this, of course, and that this has been discussed. And what should be underlined is that this is not the happiest solution, but such examples were, however, no precedent whatsoever, especially not to pull any parallels in relation to the application and compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. So, absolutely, the position of the Legislative Committee, as discussed in the debate, is that such situations should be avoided, but given the essence of the concrete changes that must occur in these two regulations that this could be a solution, that there were such situations, that it was not the happiest solution in order to make the 100% nomotechnically precise and correct amendments to these laws that you mention. But here's why the debate was held on the Legislative Committee. I'm replicating you in this respect, especially in that regard, when you mention compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act. In conclusion, this was seen as one deviation from the normal nomotechnical standard, but such situations were and were assessed by the Legislative Committee to accept such a solution not as a common solution because the concrete provisions of the proposed law in relation to those legal solutions were, in fact, acceptable in that sense, a solution, and everything else would require additional time and an amendment of a whole set of other regulations. And in essence, it would not achieve the purpose of applying those institutes that have been amended by this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72859	Thank you. The answer to the replica, my colleague Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72860	Well, dear colleague Tomljanovic, I can correct the possibility that there were such laws in the parliamentary procedure. Here, colleague Marija Lugaric tells me that these were in preschool education and education. But look, I simply don't share, and I don't think all MPs, but all the citizens who use these laws are so creative and so legally subdued that they can read and interpret themselves like this, I would say legal equilibrity or legal creativity. So, we stand by at the HNS-HSU's club for simplicity in regulations, that what belongs in one regulation that we solve in that regulation and not interfere with two laws in causal and consequential relationships. So, I don't think we're getting anything in time because these two laws for these two articles that are written in this law can be changed by an emergency procedure next week when we already have a consensus on this Law on litigation. Which means we're standing up for a clean bill policy and making it clear to everyone what the law says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72861	Thank you. A co-worker, Josip Salapic, reported further for discussion. Here's your colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72862	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure, as the gentleman said it is not difficult to praise the legal proposal if it is good, and in those things where we can improve it there is a time ahead where we will certainly make sure that legal solutions are primarily practical to courts because it is the courts that need to apply this law. The basic problem arises in the application of the law. What we bring to the Croatian Parliament sometimes we have to and change because it is really not in practice feasible. That is why it is our function as legislator to give such laws as, we are a service service, those who must apply the laws. This is one of the laws that closes Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. I think that the real problems will arise probably when we enter the European Union and really when that whole set and series of laws we have passed because of our obligations to conclude negotiations for the European Union, only when implementation occurs. Here we introduce a new institute we see a tone recording of the debate which is one credible evidence, a new institute in the litigation process but the question of whether our courts are ready to conduct such a tone recording. In some courts, unfortunately, even these basic conditions under existing laws are not met very hard to hold discussions in conditions that are not conditional on a fair and normal trial taking place in the process of equality in front of everyone. This is our fundamental challenge and our challenge as a Member State of the European Union as a fundamental task when we become a full member I also commend and the efforts of the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have indeed done a great miracle in these two years and adapted a whole series of laws to European standards, something that the European Commission officials have said to the Republic of Croatia, is a major improvement in one of the conditions for the conclusion of our negotiations with the European Union. It is hard to say anything new after colleagues who discussed this bill, this is indeed a matter of commendation and the Law that belongs to essential laws and the very purpose of the law is a quick, effective, transparent procedure in which a timely, metric court decision will be made. This law engulfs some fundamental existential human rights, from family, labour disputes, from those rights for which citizens of the protection of rights against courts cannot wait long. These amendments to the Law that are before us are already going in this direction already efficiency, greater... procedure, speeding up the litigation process as a whole is certainly something that will contribute to the Croatian judiciary. Of these institutions that are listed here in this amendment and supplementing the law, I would also point out that the ban on multiple suspension of judgments in litigation procedures is something that will definitely speed up procedures and reduce damage both to citizens and business entities where it is inadmissible that some procedure takes years where the meaning of the procedure is really lost and where the costs are largely at risk and only the question of fair proceedings and only the question of whether such a single procedure has reached the protection of the right before the Croatian courts. This is one in a series of laws that we have passed lately, you have made a real effort in both the Ministry of Justice and the Government, and here in the Croatian Parliament, that through committees, the legislation and the judiciary, we have made every effort to improve the legal solutions, which is why we are taking them through an urgent procedure, we have conducted one thorough debate and this is what Mr. Hrelja has replicated with Mr. Tomljanović that is something that we have discussed on the Committee of Law, at this point it is really necessary to act this way, to intervene in this way with this law and I believe that the time that lies before us, the challenges that await us for the Croatian judiciary, all this has been done to show that this is the right path of the Republic of Croatia and indeed one deserved assessment of the Ministry of Justice which is +5 and you yourself have tried to become the cornerstone of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. I support this law and I believe that these laws that were before us today will be laws that are simply as they say, a great step and the pride of the Croatian judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72863	Thank you very much. We've exhausted applications for an individual hearing. Proposer, there is no need for further clarification. I conclude the second item of the agenda, we will vote as usual when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72864	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 792. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of HNS Representatives, HSU. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Mrs Tatijana Vučetić, State Secretary, please be my guest. I ask the Committee on Legislatives, Amendment to Article 5, 18, 19, 21, 37, 47, 48, 49.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72865	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72866	It becomes an integral part of the bill. On Article 13?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72867	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72868	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. Then the third on Article 46?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72869	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72870	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Fourth on Article 47?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72871	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72872	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Fifth on Article 52?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72873	The fifth is not accepted, on the grounds that it is Article 266. A family law which refers precisely to the provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure, not this law that we've changed, so we didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72874	Mr. Tomljanović?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72875	Mr. President, I am withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72876	This fifth amendment to Article 52 has been withdrawn. We further have the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU Amendment 1 on Article 51.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72877	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72878	I pray on behalf of the club Mr. Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72879	Well, look, we still have a precedent here in legal practice for one law to change the content, or supplement the content of the second law, the article of the second law. Therefore, only for this reason, and we commended the Law on Prosecution. We asked these two articles to be simply deleted and that this matter be regulated by other laws. Therefore, I am here for principled reasons asking for a vote on this amendment. The same argument applies to the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72880	Thank you. Who is in favour of this amendment that the Government does not accept? Please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2 is also an explanation of who is in favour of this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on litigation. Please, let's get involved and vote on the law together with the amendments adopted. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority, 92 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72881	We move to 3rd and I suggest we combine both the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda, the same proposings, the committees discussed, gave their conclusions and amendments, if that's okay with you? I don't mind. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 793 - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on State Attorney's Office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 801. The amendments were submitted by the Committees on Law and the Committee on Justice. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on European Integration. Do they want a proposaler's representative? Tatjana Vučetić, a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72882	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Two more in a series of laws with which we actually meet the criteria for the closure of chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights, we will unite how you agreed to these two laws, esteemed parliamentary representatives. This Proposal for a Law builds upon the provisions of the Law on the State Judicial Council in order to achieve and strengthen the independence of the judicial authority and to comply with the acquis of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Act on a State Judicial Council shall be extended to the Court of Justice by decision of the Council on the immunity of judges and shall also be laid down to exempt a member of the Council from the duties of a member of the Council in the procedure for the appointment of judges, the appointment and resolution of the President of the Court, the transfer of judges, the decision on the resolution of judges, the step-by-step procedure, the application of the procedure of candidates to the State School for judicial officials and the procedure for laying down the final examination, the management and control of the property cards of judges and the decision on the immunity of judges if he is a candidate or judge or one of his or her candidates, a spouse or an outsider, a relative in a vertical line or other relative. This proposal also provides that when a judge submits an ad on the vacancy of a judge, the Council will take into account, on the basis of the total number of points established by the assessment of the conduct of the judicial duty, and the points reached in the interview. A maximum of 20 points can be reached in the Council's discussion and this extends the Council's obligation to hold an oral interview with candidates. These amendments and amendments to the law propose extending the strictness of acts for which a judge can be severely punished for a strict act of conduct contrary to the fundamental principles of the Code of Court Ethics. It also extends the catalogue of tight penalties that can be handed over to judges for the execution of stupendous acts. As a newspaper, it is concluded that if a judge is given a strict sentence of discharge from office, the Council may decide to postpone the execution of that fine for a period not less than 6 months but not longer than 2 years and also stipulate that a conditional sentence may also be applied in the event of a court order if it is assessed that, without the execution of that fine, it can be expected to achieve the purpose of punishment. It is also prescribed that the Council be called off by a conditional conviction. This proposal proposes that the Council for certain prudential procedures may appoint an executive commission from the order of judges of regular or specialised courts to determine the facts and explain them during the proceedings before the Council. The Commission shall be an independent body which shall determine the facts and which shall be delivered to the Council for the purpose of carrying out the tightening procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the State Judicial Council shall be governed by an exception to the rule that the President of the Court may not be appointed to more than twice for courts in which the judicial duty is exercised by up to five judges. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This proposal builds upon the provisions of the Law on the State Judicial Council in a way that strengthens the independence of the judicial authority, and in particular extends the responsibility of judges for the conduct of judicial duties. This provides guarantees to citizens in the exercise of the principle of rule of law. Since the same norms are in the Law on State's Attorney's Office, we have united both laws. This Law on the State's Attorney's Office has prescribed strict penalties, and this rebuke is a fine of up to one third of the salary achieved in the previous month for a maximum period of 6 months, a delay in the promotion of up to three years and a discharge from duty. These amendments and additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office extend the number of punishments in such a way as to prescribe additional prudential penalties, with a fine of up to one third of the salaries made in the previous month for a maximum period of three months and 2nd prohibition of appointment on the duty of a State lawyer or deputy by one year. The provisions of the Law on State Attorney's Office which are prescribed to initiate the tightening procedure shall also be upgraded in such a way that, if a decision is to be taken to initiate the tightening procedure, the latter will be carried out by the deputy state attorney appointed by the State Attorney's Council. Under this draft law, the State Attorney's Council shall draw up a list at the beginning of the calendar year consisting of deputy county attorney and deputy chief of state attorney of the Republic of Croatia to perform the reconnaissance. This amendment and the addition of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office to carry out the audits in order to decide on the launch of a strict procedure, the State's Attorney's Council shall entrust the deputy state attorneys as independent persons who are not members of the State's Attorney's Board. Finally, we have received amendments from the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice and we accept all amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72883	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear colleague Anna Lovrin on behalf of the Justice Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The State Secretary's ladies and gentlemen with their co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Justice discussed these two legislative proposals as a parent working body. Following the opening explanation of the applicant's representative in the debate, the committee members supported the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. They consider that the provision proposed in the amendments and amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council on the exemption of members of the Council in the decision when one of the candidates or candidates was a spouse or out-of-marriage mate, a relative in... a line or another relative was appropriate to propose both in the amendments and additions of the Law on the State Attorney's Office. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office with the following amendments. Article 1a shall read as follows: "Article 152 of the new paragraphs 2 and 3 and 4 shall be added, which shall read as follows: "a member of the Council shall be exempt from the duties of a member of the council in the process of appointing and resolving deputy state attorneys, the appointment and resolution of county and municipal state attorneys, the transfer of deputy state attorneys, the conduct of proceedings and the decision on the strict responsibility of the deputy state attorneys and state attorneys of the decision to object to the assessment, the implementation of the procedure of the application of candidates to the State School of Legal Prosecutors and the procedure of laying down the final examination of the decision on the final assessment of candidates in the State School of Justice, the supervision of the data registered on the property cards of the state attorneys and the deputy state attorney, or of the State lawyer, or of the Member State lawyer, or one of the Court of Justice, or of State lawyer, respectively, shall not be addressed to the other person or to the spouses of law-holders, the other person or to the other person, or to whom the spouses, or to whom the spouses of the spouses of the spouses, the spouses of the spouses, or to the other person of the spouses, or the other person who are the spouses, the spouses, the spouses, the other persons, or the other persons, the other persons, the spouses, the other persons to whom the legal or the other persons or the spouses, who are to whom the spouses, who are the legal or the other persons or the other persons, the legal or the spouses, the legal or the legal or the legal, the other persons, the legal or the other, the legal or the other, the legal or the legal or the other, the other, the legal or the other, the other, the legal or the legal or the other, the legal, the spouses, the spouses, the spouses, the other, the legal or the legal or the legal or the legal or the other, the other, the legal or the legal or the legal, the legal or the other person of the other person of the legal or legal or the other, the legal or the legal or the legal or legal or legal or legal or legal or legal or legal or legal or legal person of the spouses of the spouses of the spouses of the spouses Article 3(3) of the Council, as soon as it learns that there is any reason for the exemption referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, shall immediately suspend all actions in the procedure and inform the Council thereof. Where a member of the Council, outside the cases referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, knows of the circumstances which raise doubts about his impartiality in the proceedings referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, it shall immediately inform the Council which shall take the appropriate decision. Therefore, the amendment shall prescribe the exemption of a member of the Council in all the procedures referred to in paragraph 2 if the applicant or a state lawyer is in a family relationship as proposed by the new article. Amendment 2 to Article 3 of the proposal. In Article 166(5), the following point shall be inserted after the words of the Council and the rest of the sentence shall be deleted, which shall be sufficient to say that that particular investigator, or a specific deputy state attorney designated to carry out the investigations, corresponds to the Council. These are the comments of the Justice Committee in relation to the Law on the State Attorney's Office, and in relation to the draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council which the Committee also discussed as the home working body in the debate, the members supported the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council. Amendment to Article 42 of the Law exempting a member of the Council from the duties of a member of the Council in proceedings in which one of the candidates or judges is a spouse or out-of-marriage mate or relative in a vertical or slope line or in a Tabunian.../ The speaker doesn't understand. It is proposed to prescribe in Article 2 the accession obligation to verify knowledge in front of the Council and the candidates and for judges of the Supreme Court. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council with an amendment to Article 2 which reads: Article 54(1), (2) and (3) amends and reads: candidates who have submitted their applications for ad, and not judges, shall access the knowledge checks before the Council. The verification of knowledge shall consist of the making of one or more written actions in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure adopted by the State Judicial Council. The candidate of the written shop is making under his personal caps. Candidates may make 120 points from one or more written actions. The amendment releases the wording from the bill other than candidates for the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia because the procedure for the appointment of Supreme Court judges is not arranged in a different way than for the other judges. The existing formulation would make it impossible to score and create a ranking list of championships between candidates who have applied for an ad for free court seats for the Supreme Court, and are no longer judges. In view of the changes in Article 3 of the proposal regarding the discussion with judges, and not only non-judgmental candidates, in which judges can score up to 20 points, and the conduct of judicial duties can be assessed at a maximum of 150 points, it is also necessary to increase the points in written actions of candidates who are not judges so that both categories of candidates could achieve a total of 170 points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72885	Thank you. Other committees? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished colleague Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72886	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry, this is about the merger of these two points, so there's been a little misunderstanding. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, with the final proposal for a law, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Lawyership, with the final proposal for a law. In fact, these laws, I would say, are being bragged or ceased already in several amendments, including the adoption of brand new laws, but always all in order to ensure clear criteria and transparent criteria for entering the circle of judicial officials, but also to advance in the careers of judicial officials both judges and state attorneys and deputy state attorneys. Therefore, one more of the criteria in Chapter 23 to be met and the amendments to be made in technical consultations with the European Commission in the consistent implementation of the negotiated positions. Therefore, what is important in these two draft laws and what is common to prevent the provision, provisions are introduced to prevent possible conflict of interest. As proposed by the Proposer of this provision in the Law on the State Judicial Council, the provisions on the exemption of certain members of the Council should, in so far as it concerns decisions concerning persons from the circle of kinship, Tasby or blood, as I have already read, so also the Committee on Justice and the Club of the Representatives of the HDZ accepts this. It has been proposed to include identical provisions in the Law on the State of Lawyers in the part in which the legislation regulates the election procedure for a deputy state attorney, i.e. for municipal, county and state lawyers. So that would be one newspaper. The Law on the State Judicial Council also extends jurisdiction, i.e. another job is being introduced by the State Judicial Council, which is clearly omitted, which is that the State Judicial Council decides on the immunity of judges, i.e. the removal of the immunity of judges. The further provision is that we have responded to the amendment through the Committee on Justice, which is that the examination of the knowledge of the application for the ad for the judge must be carried out for all candidates and also for candidates for Supreme Court judges. As you know, after 2013, there will be no judge of the municipal court or of the county court unless the State School of Judges has passed. It will only be possible, so the law has set, it will only be able to be a Supreme Court judge to which, of course, it is a condition other than the Faculty of Law, a judicial examination and to be a respected lawyer, but since it must be a criterion, some way for the State Judiciary Council to decide if it has two or three candidates with the same formal fulfilment of formal legal requirements, so it must have some way to rank them and in that case a test and verification of knowledge must be carried out for these candidates. This law also introduces the obligation to hold talks with any candidate who applies to an ad for the seat of the judge, so now in the existing system until the first entry date, to the first candidates who will finish the judicial school, so the obligation is introduced to rank them with an assessment of their duties, to make mandatory talks with the candidates and it is determined that the highest number of points that can be made is 20 points, and the pro futuro is also determined that the candidates will be taken into account in addition to the results of the final exam and the results of the talks with the candidates. What is identical to what is introduced in these two laws is enlargement, in the DSV Law, the extension of the catalogues of stupendous works, thus introducing another strong act of conduct contrary to the basic principle codes of judicial ethics, the catalogue of penalties is expanded. Therefore, there is a scale of fines likely for serious and minor injuries and the introduction of newspapers, which is a delay in the execution of a tight discharge measure of duty. Therefore, it is possible to postpone the execution of that sentence from 6 months to 2 years. So a time of trial is being introduced. If it is assessed that the purpose of this punishment is thus also achieved. And something else that is identical in these two laws, which is the introduction into one law of investigation committees. Therefore, that the investigations are carried out not only by the council, but by the Commission of the Judges, regular and specialised courts, who will carry out the necessary investigative actions. I would like to warn you that Article 10 amending Article 67 provides that, immediately after receipt of the request, the Council may designate an investigative committee. I don't know if it was an intensities that the Council could determine or determine an investigative commission with the intention that someone just like we heard from the applicant's presentation someone who was independent of the Council was a State Justice, whether State's Attorney. Therefore, one of the deputy state attorneys and outside that council, or judges outside the council, shall carry out those actions. Because with a stipulation, it can mean that they can determine it and they don't have to. However, if the philosophy were to determine then it would mean that it has to be. But here's a warning. And two other important provisions of these amendments and additions, which is to correct one situation that has been in practice and it turns out that it is actually indecisive, which is that the law found that the limitation of the number of mandates for the presidents of the courts. So, determined that no one more than twice can be elected President of the Court. However, this led to difficulties in smaller courts. So, where there are five or fewer judges and where there were actually no candidates for presidents, that is, no one called except for a president who was already two mandates. Therefore, I should have opened up the possibility because I would say personnel and sufficiencies in those courts that this ban and this restriction were then not valid in courts with the highest, up to a maximum of five judges. And the dilemma has been resolved whether the provisions on restricting the term of office for the presidents of the courts refer to pro futuro. Therefore, for appointments to the future or also to those presidents who had already had two mandates before the entry into force of this law, the question was also resolved by this clear provision that the restriction applies only to appointments carried out after the entry into force of the Law on the State Judicial Council. Here's to the State's Attorney's Law. So it's also increasing the catalogue of tight measures. A strict measure of inability to appoint a state lawyer for a period of one year is being introduced. So that's practically a one-year-old promotion ban. And a fine of up to one third of the salary made in the previous month for up to three months. Therefore, the catalogue of penalties is extended in this respect and the appointment obligation is imposed for investigative actions in the event of a tight procedure before the Council. Obligation to appoint a deputy county attorney or deputy chief state attorney from a designated list to conduct investigations. And the provision that then the deputy or deputies designated for carrying out the reconnaissances are obliged to carry out the order of the council, shall be required to carry out the order and to be responsible for that work. Here, because of all this, because this is one further improvement in the texts of these laws. Of course, in the sense that clearer criteria for selecting and improving the judicial duties of the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72887	Thank you very much. It is next to the club of HNS, HSU and distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72888	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the motion. We have two proposals before us that we are considering in a united debate. And on behalf of the HNS and HSU club, they can't begin their exposure to the fact that it's still a bitter taste in our mouth because of the very ugly two cases we've had, and they have to do with this very recently and that it's gone so lightly. The first case is the recent disappearance of the State Judicial Council in the setting, departure and exit when the appointment of sixty new judges at different levels of courts has actually made a bitter mockery of all efforts made by both the Government and the Ministry of Justice over the past months in the adaptation of our legislative framework to the practice and acquis of the European Union when it comes to how the State Judicial Council should function as an independent body, which are functions of an independent judiciary that are being carried out thanks to the actions of the State Judiciary Council and so on. And second case, the second case is the one through which we have so easily passed in this Croatian Assembly, which is the appointment of judges in the Supreme Court, where it has been so eclutantly established that some of the presidents of the courts directly mocked the Ministry of Justice, and the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament, and also to us here, which we have then passed most of the votes, and have actually become participants in the violation of the Law on Courts. It's not good. It is no longer a good team that is behind the past months the enormous work of the Ministry of Justice, our negotiators, the expert groups of the European Commission, and I would say to us here in the Croatian Parliament who, with more or less intensity, demanded that both the work of the State Judiciary Council and the criteria for choosing on judicial duty, and then for promotion in the judicial profession, be introduced to new, transparent, clear depolitised standards and procedures. It is not long that we have also discussed the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, and here again we have a proposal that these two laws are being completed and that's not bad. It is good because it is obviously the fruit of our cooperation with the experts of the European Commission, who have shown us certain elements of the current law to be clarified, and it is good that we are doing so, especially when we are talking about the Law on the State Judicial Council, defining, or more clearly determining the powers of the DSV, but also clarifying the procedures for the assessment of the candidates themselves for judicial duty, where they are getting closer, and this fact that the future conversation with the candidates will be able to bring only one-fifth of the total number of points when candidates are scored. It used to be a different case, you see, this is a situation where so-called The interview actually served as a space of manipulation, i.e. setting political preferences and definitions which candidates can, which cannot be judges, primarily based on beyond professional and political or parapolitical reasons. It is now a narrowed area, because the interview, or interview, can bring only 20 points, and it is clear that both Articles 3 and 4 where the explicits are stated in the Law on the State Judicial Council, this now sets out as a standard under which the future will not go. It would be illusory to expect that all these changes, including those on the agenda today, will already have an important impact on the reform of the Croatian judiciary tomorrow, but it is also very correct to say that without these changes that we are making today, there would never be. So it is realistic to say that only in a few years will the real effects of these amendments and the addition of the Law on the State Judicial Council, the Law on Courts, etc. to give their fullness, i.e. will be noticed in the very functioning of the system, because these are processes that cannot deliver results overnight, these are processes that require commitment throughout the system, these are changes that are important, but long-term. Similarly, it should be said that we will support both the amendments and the additions of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, because what is proposed, and as regards the extension of the number of punishments, then the issue of clarification of the situation of permanent relocation, and also the execution of reconnaissances in the event of a tight procedure, these are changes and additions that significantly clarify the procedures that we hold important and that will help the State's attorneyship, i.e. the functional structure of the State's attorney's office, in the future, face fewer obstacles, and when it comes to them to resolve them more easily and efficiently. In this respect, I declare that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired persons will also support the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the State Attorney's Office and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72889	Thank you, fellow MP. An esteemed colleague, Ana Lovrin, has applied for the correction of the quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is incorrect that the fellow MP said that before these changes, the interview served as an opportunity to make non-transparent, unobstructive decisions and prefer certain candidates regardless of results and quality. So it's just not true. The amendments to this law introduce an interview obligation, and determine how many points this interview can carry. In the previous law, there was no provision at all that an interview must be conducted, but could be conducted, and in the case of a state school, it was a provision to be ranked exclusively according to the results of the final examination of the state school, and these amendments are introduced by a mandatory interview, because it is good, but it is determined that it cannot exceed the points in relation to the tests performed and the tests of knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72891	Thank you. We're crossing, no more club reports, we're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague, Ivo Grbić, signed up. Here's a colleague of the Grbic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72892	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, with the final proposal for a law, and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Lawyers of the Council with the final proposal for a law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in the procedure of adoption under an urgent procedure. The urgency of the procedure is justified in view of the fact that the proposed laws of the Croatian legislation are aligned with EU rules and all in order to close Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the State Judicial Council extend the work of the State Judicial Council in a way that the Council also decides on the immunity of judges. This Regulation shall enter into force on the In addition, the law also provides for the exemption of a member of the Council in the procedures for the appointment of judges, the appointment and resolution of the President of the Courts, the transfer of judges, the resolution of resolutions and prudential procedures, the enrolment of candidates in the State School, the control of property cards, and one of the candidates or judges being a spouse or an outsider, a relative in a vertical line or another relative. It is proposed to the Council to establish points for candidates who apply for an ad on the vacancy of the judge in addition to the number of points established by the assessment of the conduct of the judicial duty at the interview and subsequently draw up a list of championships. This proposal prescribes a new step-by-step act, conduct contrary to the basic principles of the Code of Justice ethics, and extends the number of punishments imposed on judges in such a way as to delay the restrictive duty resolution measure from 6 months to 2 years. The paper is to propose the appointment of an investigative committee of judges, regular or specialised courts for certain phasing-out procedures whose task would be to establish facts and explain them to the council in a concrete step-by-step procedure. Furthermore, an exception is proposed to the rules that the President of the Court cannot be appointed more than twice for courts in which the judicial duties are conducted by up to 5 judges. The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Attorney's Office extends the strict penalties in such a way as to propose, in addition to the prescribed disciplines, a fine of up to one third of the salary made in the previous month for a maximum period of 6 months, a delay in the promotion of up to 3 years and a discharge from duty, a new pecuniary sentence and a fine of up to one third of the salary made in the previous month for a maximum period of 3 months and a prohibition of appointment of a State lawyer, i.e. a deputy up to 1 year. It is proposed that, in the case of a request for permanent transfer of a deputy State Attorney's Attorney's Office, the State's Attorney's Office shall also request the consent of the State's Attorney's Office to which the transfer is sought. In the event that a decision is to be taken to initiate a tight procedure, the Council will have to carry out inspections from the list of Deputy State Attorneys of the County and Deputy Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia to appoint one or more Vice-Presidents to carry out the reconnaissance. I believe that this proposal is good, that carrying out the reconnaissance will contribute in a proposed way to the collection of key facts for the decision to initiate a tight procedure. Also, I think it's a good thing that the reconnaissance is entrusted to the deputy state's attorney as an independent person. The proposed amendments and additions in addition to the harmonisation with the EU acquis further strengthen the role of the council, especially in tighter procedures. I will therefore support the adoption of a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council as well as a proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Attorney's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72893	Thank you very much. The next debate was signed up by a esteemed colleague, Damir Sesvečan. Here you go, fellow Sesvetchan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72894	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Therefore, given that the joint discussion on the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office, I will first refer to the Law on the State Judicial Council and stress that these are actually its first amendments and complements after that law was passed in October of last year. The most significant newspaper of the new Law on the State Judicial Council was the result of changes to the Constitution adopted in June 2010 with the position of the State Judicial Council strengthened institutionally and organisationally in terms of its regulation as an independent and independent body ensuring the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. It is arranged that the procedure for the appointment of judicial officials is fully managed by the State Judicial Council through the power of decision-making on appointment, promotion, transfer, resolution and strict responsibility of judges including appointments to management posts. So, to the seats of the President of the Court. The new DSV Act is also incorporated into provisions harmonising our legislation in this area with the acquis of the EU, and the proposal for a law that is before us adds to the provisions which meet the criteria for closing Chapter 23. – Justice and fundamental rights of accession negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. As stated in this law, the section of the State Judicial Council is further extended to issues of exemption from the duties of members of the Council in certain proceedings. For example, in the decision-making process on the appointment and resolution or transfer of judges in a phasing-out procedure, on the decision-making procedure on the immunity of judges, on the procedure of appointment and resolution of the President of the Courts, etc. When, therefore, he is a candidate of a judge or judge, a brother, a spouse, or an outsider, or a relative in a straight line or another relative. A new stepwork is also prescribed, conduct contrary to the basic principles of the code of judicial ethics, and the catalogue of strict penalties that can be given to judges for the actions committed is also extended. It shall be introduced into the Council the possibility of appointing investigative committees for certain prudential proceedings in the order of judges of regular or specialised courts who are not members of the Council, which would therefore establish certain facts and explain them during the proceedings before the Council. As far as the Law on the State's Attorney's Office is concerned, a new law was passed in 2009. Also, from the need to bring it into line with the provisions of other laws relating to the work of the State's Attorney's Office, and primarily with regard to the application of the new Criminal Procedure Act as well as the harmonisation with the acquis of the EU. As mentioned today's Law on State Attorney's Office has been amended three times, and the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, which is in an emergency procedure today, further meets the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights. In particular, it is proposed to supplement the provisions relating to the strict procedure so that two more fines are added to the existing phasing-out until one-third of the salary achieved in the previous month for a maximum period of three months and the inability to appoint a state lawyer for up to one year. Certain changes related to the conduct of reconnaissances are also foreseen in the event of the launch of a tight part of the Deputy State Attorney's Office. I will also say that I also support the amendments of the Committee on Justice primarily to the amendment which regulates the issue of exemption from the members of the State Attorney's Council in the procedures of appointment, resolution or strict responsibility as well as other procedures if the candidate or deputy state attorney is in a relative relationship with a member of the Council, so this issue will be regulated in the way that this is regulated for members of the State Judicial Council. And finally, I will stress that I will support the adoption of amendments and complement both of these laws ahead of us because they are certainly being contributed and they are an additional step in strengthening the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72895	Thank you very much. It is next for the debate, the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72896	Thank you very much. Here we are today discussing three legislative proposals. First we discussed the Law on Referendum and then the litigation procedure here is now and the Law on State's Attorney's Office. The Law on Referendum is proposed, are we discussing first reading and we have established here in the debate that there is another law on the election of unit leaders of local self-government, which says they will be called under the Law on Referendum. And today we've been discussing the Law of Referendum without the Government passing this other law that must go together. Then we discussed the Law on a litigation procedure, and in the transitional and final provisions of that law, the Law on Courts is amended. And how now those who apply the Law on Courts will know that their law by which they must act is amended when that law is neither changed nor changed but otherwise. They would have to read all the laws that change so that they might not find that the Law on the Protection of Tunas in the Adriatic may have changed the Law on Courts, as it is possible to come. How sloppy the work is. But now we have another precedent in this state's attorney's law. I don't know if he's been to the Parliament by now. Now the sloppyness of the government is moving to the Parliament. So I am making an amendment to the article that does not change in the law, which gives an amendment to the 152nd article, and that article does not change. We have our Rules of Procedure which clearly states in its 163th article: "If the final draft of the law changes and complements the law, amendments can only be submitted to articles covered by the proposed amendments and amendments". And now make sure that it comes to a prisoner who's new, so he doesn't know the businessman well, so man would warn him. But when it comes from the Justice Committee, then it's incomprehensible. With this amendment, here is fellow Sesvečan, who says that he will support him, regardless of what is not a business statement, he will support something unbusinessful, incomprehensible. The long-term amendment regulates one important issue, the issue of exceptions and may need to be regulated but must be regulated by amendments to the law. I wonder if you're even communicating with each other? The Advocacy Club, the Government, because if the Justice Committee found that the bill was missing, then the Government was warned about it, so they pull the law nicely, fix it, send it back, so we know the procedure, so it's not questionable whether this should be resolved, but you have to get the laws under procedure. This sloppy work of the Parliament by me points to only one thing, the time has come for the Parliament to disband. It's the last hour because this is not the way people of God can do things. Well, that's what the government is ashamed of every day. Three bills of law, three shames. So what if we'd discussed 10 of them because we'd find circuses like this in all 10? Despite my colleague Sesvecan saying that he will vote in favour of this amendment, I call on the secretary not to put this amendment in the voting procedure because it is opposed to the Rules of Procedure. Because what's going to happen, the parliamentary majority, no matter what it's not, will vote on Friday, or the government will say the government accepts, no matter what it's not business in one word, do whatever you want, do not concern you, neither the laws nor the Businessman. But God’s people are thus not allowed to do so, so this Croatian Parliament must have some kind of dignity, so we must keep this dignity together. Well, colleague Sesvečan, who is a lawyer instead of warning his colleague and saying so don't do it, he's still here publicly saying he's going to vote for something that's against business, and so you're all going to. And very important. So there's no point in talking about the metrics. Democracy is not based on procedure amongst other things, because if the procedure is wrong, then there is no democracy. Then this isn't the Parliament, then we play the Parliament. Therefore, I ask you nicely to get serious, and to the government to get serious and not send such sloppy bill proposals, and also a fellow ruling majority member, pay a little attention to that. Do not embarrass yourself and do not embarrass this institution and do not act against the law and against the business and yet boast about it. Therefore, I ask you, secretary, that this amendment, given that it is absolutely crystal clear that he is past the Rules of Procedure that you do not even put him to the vote on Friday. For these reasons I warn you, now everyone has heard it, this is a public warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72897	Thank you, fellow Stazic. We've exhausted all reports under these two individual hearing laws. Does the Secretary of State want it? There's no need. If there's no need, then I'll conclude both the 3rd and 4th points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72898	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 793. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. I ask that the proposaler's representative be shown on these amendments. Madam Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72899	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment 1 to the article...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72900	The first amendment to Article 1 is replaced by the following: The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72901	It is accepted but in a way that it reads: "In Article 1(3) of the introductory word: "and a new one is added" is replaced by the words "they are added", and in the additional paragraph 3 the words "from the first" are replaced by the words "the second paragraph".
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72902	We agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72903	It was accepted in the amended form as read by the State Secretary. On Article 6?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72904	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72905	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Third on Article 12?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72906	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72907	It becomes an integral part of the bill. And we have a Justice Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72908	The second is accepted in the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72909	Amendment to Article 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72910	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72911	It becomes an integral part of the bill. So please join in and vote on the bill along with the amendments adopted. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority, 91 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72934	We've also been prepared to discuss two points together, five and seven points again. This is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Penal Code and the Final Proposal for a Law on the Predetermination of Crimes of War Profits and Crimes from the Conversion and Privatisation Process. Normally, if, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you agree to merge the 5th and 7th points. Okay? Thank you very much. Against? It's nobody. We move to points 5 and 7, which are - Final bill on the completion of the Penal Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 809 and - Final bill on the non-depreciation of war crimes and crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 808 For one and the other you received materials. The hearing was conducted by the committees. We also received the records from the board's session for today's session. We also have amendments submitted by the board. Does he want to do it on behalf of the proposer? Yeah. State Secretary Tatiana Vučetić, I ask you to explain this... Here you go. [[The speaker is not understood because of a loud announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable MPs and MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prescribes the non-exhaustion of the crimes of war profit and crime from the process of conversion and privatisation committed at the time of the Homeland War and peaceful reintegration, the state of war and the direct threat and independence and territorial integrity of the state prescribed by law or those which do not become obsolete under international law. The Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution stipulates that the laws allowing the application of the provisions of the Constitution which cannot be directly applied will be harmonised within 6 months of the date of the declaration of the Constitutional Law. Constitutional law was declared on 22 October 2010. The instructive time limit for harmonisation of the law allowing the application of the provisions of the Constitution that can be applied directly shall be 22 April 2011. In order to implement the provisions of the Constitution, and in order to prevent the establishment of a statute of limitations for war crimes and the process of conversion and privatisation crime, the establishment of a supplemental of the Criminal Code in Article 18 has been approached in such a way that the inability to apply the criminal law of the Republic of Croatia except for the offences referred to in that provision does not also apply to offences which do not become obsolete under the Constitution. The Penal Code consistently implements the provisions of the Constitution, Article 31(4) and allows for further examination of this provision in a specific law. Here's a link to why these two bills are united. The following approach was made to the Law on the Non-Depreciation of War Profits and Crimes from the Conversion and Privatisation Process. This law was built on the fact that the crimes of war profiting and converted and privatised crime are not only contained in the Criminal Law but also in other laws. This law prescribes a catalogue of criminal offences for which criminal prosecution can be committed even after the expiry of time limits for outdated prosecution. The catalogue of criminal offences covers criminal offences under the Basic Criminal Code of the Republic of Croatia, the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia and the Criminal Code, in the light of the perpetrator’s application of a law which was in force at the time of the criminal offence, criminal offences contained in other laws: Customs Law, Law on the issue and transport of securities, the Securities Market Act and the Law on Criminal Crimes against the Capital Market. The law includes the definition of war profit as a criminal offence in the catalogue prescribed by this law, but also other criminal offences under the basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia, the criminal law of the Republic of Croatia and the criminal law which has achieved disproportionate property benefit and the following modalities: by raising prices of goods in need, by selling state property significantly below its value or otherwise by exploiting the state's war and direct threat to independence and territorial integrity if they are committed at the time of the Homeland War and peaceful reintegration, war and direct threat to independence and territorial integrity of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72936	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs want on behalf of the board? No, I don't. If we don't, then we're going to have a club debate. And on behalf of the IDS Club, the first is the debate of fellow MP Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72937	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. I am afraid that this Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation or how it bears the title on the non-depreciation of war profits and crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation will eventually turn into one major revision of nothing at all. If the intention in this country existed, I would personally hold that the conversion would be revised, to be fair, both in 2001 and in 2004 and in 2007 and not to wait for the end of the term of office in 2001. As it wasn't audited in 2001, '03, '05, '07, or I don't know what year I mentioned, I doubt 2011 or 2012, '13. A year. It's almost, I dare say, it's not possible, whatever some of you are saying today by the promoter. I would personally like to raise Joseph Broz Tito and re-expropriate the expropriator, but what will you do? In 2011, gentlemen are not '43, and in 2011, neither is the 33rd year of the new era. In '45, that was possible, and today, gentlemen, it will be inconclusive. And we're not hitting on the phrases that it's a dust drop in the eyes, etc., but didn't our prime minister open Mr Rajic's drives a few days ago or weeks ago, in which a man allegedly invested 300 million kuna. But as he invested that money, by selling to Lactalis Dukat 300m euros from the country before. He returned 40m or 50m euros which is commendable, but still has 250m euros left in Switzerland, not counting probably what he brought out while running the company in Croatia. And now I don't want to pollute here with Dukat, Raic, etc. But you know what I'm saying, there's just no one in this country who thinks and that this privatisation was as pure as probably no one thinks that one in Croatia was clean. Now we're going in a row. How was the conversion done in the Republic of Croatia? It was done as a rule as follows. Society companies, theOURs, the SOURs, which I know what they were then turned into stock companies. So d.d. The shares thus acquired were committed to the commercial banks, and the banks were lending loans paid out of the company's assets and not paid by the director and others who acquired them. So no one in Croatia has given any of the Croatian tycoons a single kuna of their own money for shares, i.e. for participation in society. Those who are hating them down. So companies are bought with money from the companies themselves. And it's a clear crime and it's a clear thief. But what are you gonna do? That was possible at the time. The law did not defend this, but one such situation should clearly provide for this law. For example, I know two children who at the time of the 1990s, the 1990s and the first, I don't know if they were 18 and who gained 7% stakes in one of the largest Croatian companies because their father provided them with managers who ran this company with five million marks. So that download pattern I kind of explained. Now here we have that second step of what we call a clear policy. Back then, HDZ, '90s, '90s, '90s, '90s, '90s. So before the very Law on Conversion and Privatisation of those years, he first spent a cleanup in this social property among the people who ran certain companies or simply forced them to join the HDZ. In Rijeka and Istria, some may have avoided that fate, but they were involved and had to enter the HDZ elegantly from the Alliance of Communists. They didn't find it hard because they first got companies by the 1990s because they were led by representatives of some committees, the Alliance of Communists, and then something like that continued. Who shared the loans? Credits were shared by directors of business banks who were also held in their seats had to enter this Union of Communists. Not the Union of Communists in HDZ. Credits were, and the same thing is, come on. Credits were the same is the whole thing. Credits were strictly conducted. Then we get to the third thing. It's this Privatisation Fund, or government. They were these super auditors. Who can play all that party game and who can't? Clearly, for me it was always a game against not knowing the country, country, etc. But those who took part in this game simply couldn't lose. And where workers would get crumbs, the big crumbs clearly took these managers what they were called after. And it would be good for someone to review all the privileged shares of certain companies in that context. We have those two categories of privileged shares that pay off those dividends before regular shares. Politics also created monopolies. It was through politics that the competition went out. There'd be inspections in these other companies. Their interest would rise, their administrations would collapse. They wouldn't be granted loans. Through the Tax Administration, certain companies would be destroyed, and others would not be allowed to work with the Republika Srpska, to work with those in Serbia who were close to Milosevic and not to list further. But now it's history. The Latins say that what's been bad since the beginning of time can't simply empower itself, and then I'm afraid that the revision in these rooms won't happen anymore. There are several reasons why I express that fear. First of all, they're business banks. Who's gonna touch that? They've been rehabilitated, say, with 13 billion kunas. They've been taken over by six or seven billion kunas. If someone were to touch that, let's not forget that the assets of the business banks are about $400 billion, that we also have an external debt greater than the gross social product, that this year the country must be in debt for 30 billion kuna in order to finance its deficit. Would if someone touched that on anyone who could count on a single kuna of credit to the business banks? No, I don't. We'd just go bankrupt. Tito did it so I said he could do it. That was the kind of time. But what are you gonna do? This is 2011, and Tito is gone, and I doubt there will be a simple revision of the conversion. Would Europe allow someone to touch that international. You'd better remember him, too! Would Europe allow itself to be touched by their bank's capital? I just doubt it. He won't. Europe has opened corruption in Croatia, but I doubt it would allow it to touch. These bankers on the other hand work with some people, I don't know who's headed some big companies. Would new people, and I said banks can't be touched in 2011 count on loans as calculated, as old administrations did. I just said it's not forty-five and it's hard for us to just do it. The fourth question is why is it almost inconclusive? Well, there's the media now. Who will, many of these media are, say, in foreign ownership. All honors after 2000 have mostly begun to open these independent portals. But who could possibly touch that without just letting someone play with their own substrategic. In one word, I'm afraid, not to mention private investment funds that are also in the hands of mostly foreigners. So I'm afraid that's what's gonna happen. So this revision of conversion and privatisation. I'm afraid it's all going to turn into a big delusion again, and if someone asks me if I'm for review absolutely, I said I regret that some people just can't get back to life and I can't get that expropriator expropriation even though I'm honest and nationalizing those little shops, crafts, shops, properties in '46, '47, '48. It caused enormous damage to the country as a whole. For years, I even acted against, say, those later on, Josipovic's dictatorship or pay or return. I claimed that it should absolutely be returned, but today I think that Josipovic was perhaps right, and when I know there is no... You should do what Putin did, tell the Croatian tycoons to pay, if you won't pay the real value of these companies then return them, if you won't return then we have other mechanisms to deal with you, and not that the prime minister opens up, although I don't think you should open one plant of generic drugs in Croatia, and not that, for example, it means now opening up to people who participated in that conversion of their drive, but when nothing happens what you're going to do, you have to deal with it clearly in this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't want this law to turn into a dust-to-eye, I'd like to make it clear that those who participated in this transformation, privatization without any of their own swearing in some way, but I doubt that's what's going to happen in this country. Today I read this one interview, or I don't know Mr. Tedeski's statement, one of the most successful entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, who literally quoted him as saying that with the prosecution of everyone who violated the Law on Conversion, it is more important to see why someone managed to destroy the existing value, and someone to create a new value, etc. There, too, should be known that some simply kept behind their backs to guard their backs with those who were in power. Another not norm, but in reason, means an assessment of the source and the necessary means to implement the laws, here it is said that the law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. I doubt it, not that it is wrong, but that billions of kuna should be provided, in order to provide parallel financial assistance to those companies that could not count on loans from existing commercial banks that are all foreign-owned. So I say once again normally that I'm going to vote for one of these laws, normally I expect that revision to happen, but I really have no intention of throwing dust into anyone's eyes and saying it's going to happen from today to tomorrow. However, I would love to, but to be honest with you, I doubt it all, but let's at least have some basis and what will happen is likely to be revised by those who fail, but those who have succeeded with political support will not become pillars of the financial world in the Republic of Croatia. So I don't believe in the law, but what you're going to vote for is the same, hoping that maybe at least one millionth of all national injustices will work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72938	Thank you very much, colleague Cain. Here's listening to him and don't, today he's onto us and some things he's found out about. We, after '48. We read that the deceased was called a reisionist, and then there were hundreds of sessions where it was defended, and we actually see that he's talking to us today, that today he's here to review it and that he knows how to do it, but a joke on the side. A colleague, Maric, came forward to correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72939	My colleague Cain, you usually increase when it comes to billions, now you're shrinking, so I'm interested in why you're always reducing when it comes to banks. The recovery of banks in Croatia was not 6.7 billion as you say, 13 billion, and I will show you one day the structure of bank recovery, which amounted to the Republic of Croatia cost 87.4 billion kuna. It's not sold for 6.7 billion like you say you sold the banks, it's income from the sale of 5.3 billion, and I'm going to show you the same income structure on all banks whenever you want. Secondly, you said that no one in Croatia thinks that any company's conversion was clean. That's not true. Unfortunately, there are too many of them who think she was clean, that she was more brilliant than the Storm Action, and that's all those who took part in it, who fired the workers, the company's activities shut down, sold out the real estate, made themselves rich, and brought the money out to the outside. And there are always too many of those, and only too many of them have been given management loans, as the banks have been sold. And I'm going to go back to another, biggest bank with 90 billion kuna assets since its privatisation and conversion of the Croatian budget has not received a single drop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72940	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. The correction was further reported by visiting fellow MP Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Caine said that nothing is going on in this country on the economic side. That's incorrect. The investment cycle is under way, the economic recovery programme shows some results, and they say the most optimistic ones will be GDP growth, so in any case they are optimistic indicators. But when I listen to you, in a way I get that saying to say, it's human to close my eyes, but it's courage to open them. It seems to me that somehow you are either constantly walking with your eyes closed or in your sleep, so there is another Tito's resurrection. I recommend that you continue to dream, that he will be resurrected, and by the time you wake up, in that time, we will win the term of office again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72942	Thank you, colleague Milinkovic. Very creative, yes. Comrade Hrelj, your turn, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72943	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with his associates. We have two laws ahead of us, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, and we will make it very easy to resolve it because it is a single word in the law, so the word Constitution and international regulations continue. Therefore, there is nothing to say but that it is justified and that it is in the spirit of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that law from that aspect needs to be changed. With the final proposal of the Law on the Depreciation of Crimes of War Profits and Crimes from the Conversion and Privatisation Process, that is not exactly the case. This looks like a law that's a lot to be expected from, but his range is really low by all estimates. Of course, it should be commended to the Legislative Committee that it has respected the opinion that part of the legal profession should be abolished relatively and absolutely. So, not only relatively as was the first proposal. And so, it's an amendment that will surely be accepted and that's good, but the waist has said some other things that are not respected. And I will now begin my debate by quoting Mrs. Zlata Djurdjevic, the head of the Department of Criminal and Processary Law Department in Zagreb, who says that among other things, "The biggest problem is a harsh violation of the principle of legality which guarantees that the crime must be prescribed by law at the time of its launch". The proposal amends the offences prescribed at the time of the initiation which violates the principle of legality. These are Articles 6 and 7 of the proposal, respectively, and are already prescribed by the additional features which were not prescribed at the time of initiation. For example, all criminal offences are also required to achieve disproportionate property benefit, and not known about what. Although this term of disproportionate property benefit does not know at all the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia, and even a significant asset benefit is not part of all the criminal offences in the catalogue provided in Articles 3, 4 and 5. In addition, any criminal offences in the catalogue in the proposal cannot be committed to the prescribed modalities of the perpetrator, indicating the superficiality and incompetence of the proposal. It is also paradoxical that after the constitutional creator has broken the knot between the outdated law enforcement and the principle of lawfulness, presupposing that the prosecution is not part of the principle of legality and that the outdated prosecution of a criminal-processing institute is a proponent of a clumsy legal proposal in violation of the principle of legality in its essence. Unlike the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, this legislative proposal does not determine what are the offences of conversion and privatisation. It lists the catalogue of criminal offences, but does not link the catalogue to the application of privatisation laws or to the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, which is very detailed in which area and in which the rules will be carried out. It is also a time period of non-determination that is very wide and undefined. Instead of incurring legal descriptions of criminal offences, the proposal should have specified more precisely the actual and timeliness of this law. Let’s go to article 1, let’s get a little problem with article 1. We have a law I hope doesn't talk about anything that will be done pro futuro. I hope we don't have a Homeland War, I hope we never have a peaceful reintegration again, I hope we never have a direct threat to the independence of the country's territorial integrity again. Which means this law applies to the past tense. And it would be polite in Article 1 to define that time precisely, from – to. So, from the day the period begins to when the period ends. This will be very difficult because this period, in particular, if it comes to war profiting, we can say that it ends with certain activities of the Homeland War, but if it is a process of conversion and privatisation, that period continues. At least this period continues in the spirit of the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation. Because the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation also includes the article, to be precise, just a moment, here it is, therefore, that the revision of conversion and privatisation in accordance with this law must be carried out in legal persons who have been privatised and taken over by the person referred to in Article 21. The Privatisation Act, where the exchange of shares and the provision of management shares has been carried out, has been made a description of the claim on the basis of debt, religious relations. These are all the events that took place after the Homeland War. So one part of that is in '99. It happened in '98, 2000, and later. Therefore, Article 1 should necessarily state what time period this law refers to. Secondly, we have one very debateable question, a question of war. We all know that in Croatia there was a war, that we were exposed to aggression, that we had a defence war, that we had a Homeland War, but I'm asking you one thing, colleagues and colleagues, have there ever been a declaration of war in Croatia? Can you tell me when the war was declared in Croatia? There has never been a declaration of war in Croatia because if the declared war situation could not be conducted during the war by conversion and privatisation. Tourist companies could not be taken over on the basis of borrowing because then tourism companies could seek war damage because they were exposed to war damage. But since there was no state of war, the tourist company was in charge of getting paid, the debts grew and a replacement of the equity debt was made in those companies. Therefore, there are very serious, very serious problems opening up here. Furthermore, in this catalogue contained in Article 3, Articles 4 and 6, pardon Article 5, there are things that are inconclusive. So it's an honor to take off the absolute obsolescence. But I ask you how will one who implements this law prove tax evasion from other taxes, if it is the obligation of a legal entity to keep it for 5, 6 or 7 years? Where are they gonna find the paperwork and prove tax evasion? Where are they going to find documentation on the company's business? So, I would like to point out the ineligibleness of these provisions, and I would like to point out that these crimes that are listed in the catalogue do not correspond to what is at all the objective and which is related to the revision of conversion and privatisation because this law should logically continue to revise conversion and privatisation where criminal acts have been committed. I also ask you what to do with the case where it belongs in these 10 or in these 15 points of Article 3 and 18 of Article 5 or Article 4 of the return of shares to the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund in the late autumn of 1999, when it was sensed that the government would change, where does it belong? Is everything legal here? Is that covered by the laws? And you know that individuals who failed to lend their house to a mortgage and took company shares failed to do what they thought they would do to pay off their shares from business and then when they saw that the political system had changed in the autumn they returned to the Croatian Fund for the privatisation of all their shares and someone in that fund freed them from mortgages on personal property, so to the house or property. Where does this belong? Furthermore, we can problemise Article 6 I would like it to be implemented, but it will fall from the constitutional principle of legality. I'd like them all to be sold on the stock market, which is said to be legal, which were in one day, in one hour, in 45 minutes. 36% of the shares of a company that today HANFA is blocking, please tell me that those laws did not exist, neither was HANFA nor were there laws because the Securities Market Act came into force in 2002. The law on criminal acts against the capital market in 2008 and we want to prosecute them according to laws that were not in force at the time of the possible crime. Whoever is charged with this will fall from the position of constitutional law in the Constitutional Court. So, let's get one thing straight, the HNS and HSU club will support this bill because the initiative is good, but these are not good solutions. I mean, we can't play and create one balloon of expectations for our citizens, and there'll be nothing of it in the end. Then it's better not to pass such a law. So in the finale, I think it's correct that on behalf of HNS and HSU we propose and propose, and I think that it will join both SDP and IDS because we are talking, we suggest that this conclusion that this goes into third reading, that we reconsider whether this is what we're doing, we're doing EPP or we're really going to do something about this. I think the fact is that our citizens expect something to be resolved, the question is whether we have created excessive expectations whether we are irresponsible and we have created excessive expectations among citizens that this law will solve all the problems in privatisation. My people, when you have a burning forest, there's nothing more you can save, and here in the privatisation, there's a huge majority of our legal entities, and it's manufacturing entities, and you can even punish the perpetrators, but you can't bring this back to the old ones. So I wonder how meaningful it is to create new delusions about privatisation. I know this doesn't get political points when you talk like that, but unfortunately the truth and these present are now cruel and nothing that was ever going to bring us back can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72944	Thank you very much. And the latest application on behalf of the clubs, distinguished representative Josip Salapic and HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72945	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of our debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, we support both these legislative proposals, the draft law on the completion of the Penal Code, and the addition of the Law on the Depreciation of Crime of War Profits and Crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation with the Final Proposal of the Law. I would not agree with my esteemed colleague Hrelja if we were doing something here for the EPP, both laws are not political EPP, but this is our joint political agreement of the Croatian Parliament, of all clubs when we were making constitutional changes. I think this bill also came from the SDP to include this bill in the Constitution that the crimes of war profit and crime from the process of conversion and privatisation and this bill enter into constitutional changes when we discussed the proposal for constitutional changes. It is certain that there will be difficulties in implementing this law in view of the time limit that has elapsed to this day. But if there were an opportunity to discuss this before in some other political circumstances, we can also say that it was. We consider it not too late for this law and we consider it a good solution to amend these two laws and implement the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is that until 22 April 2011 it is time for a new constitutional solution, which is Article 31. The Constitution, which is complemented by the new paragraph 4, which stipulates that the crimes of war profiting as well as the offences of the process of conversion and privatisation committed at the time of the Homeland War and the peaceful reintegration of the war status of the direct threat to the independence of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the offences prescribed by law and those which do not become obsolete under international law. It is further prescribed that the property benefit achieved by these works and all the property benefit associated with these works will be subtracted. It was also necessary to intervene in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia in addition to Article 18(2). The criminal law in such a way that the inability to apply the penal law of the Republic of Croatia to criminal offences in that provision concerning outdated acts is therefore amended and that this legal provision is amended where this part of the Constitution and international law is added. In view of the proposed legal solutions, it was necessary to establish the catalogue of criminal offences because at a time when these legal changes were subject to three laws, which is the basic criminal law of the Republic of Croatia, the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia and the Penal Code. It was therefore necessary to include in this legislative proposal the catalogue of criminal offences under all these three laws since these laws were the positive right of the Republic of Croatia at the time to which these amendments were concerned. For the urgent procedure of this law, there are particularly important state reasons, which is the prescribed deadline for the legal, implementation of the Constitution, legal implementation of the Constitution, change of the Republic of Croatia, Article 7. Constitutional law, which means a 6-month deadline for those laws that cannot be applied directly in the constitutional changes that we adopted in June last year. As for all the concerns that this law will cause, the practice will show all the problems that can be found in the implementation of this law, and it is certain that it may have to be another time to intervene in those criminal acts that Mr Hrelja has also been talking about, but it is certain that the intention of the legislator and our representatives in the Croatian Parliament is certain that justice in these criminal acts and in all criminal acts committed as war profit and criminal offences in the process of converting and privatising criminal offences and that all those who have committed crimes and have done damage to the Republic of Croatia will return that property benefit to the state register, and that for all those who are perpetrators, the direct perpetrators of these crimes to be found in institutions where they belong if one independent and transparent judicial procedure is proved. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of a proposal for both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72946	Thank you. Correction of the quote, colleague of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72947	Dear fellow Salapic, I am correcting an incorrect assumption. Look, I never doubted that this was done in good faith, and I said it wasn't my problem to raise my hand, but it's my problem to figure out if what you're saying is possible. Is it possible to catch the perpetrators and return to the state register what went out of the state register? I believe that this law makes this possible to an insufficient extent and that we will fail citizens' expectations. That's why the suggestion is that if it's possible in a football dictionary, we stop at the ball, let's see if we can still improve something in a possibly third reading because we can't take down the emergency procedure right now in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72948	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to individual. First of all, the Dragutin Lesar Christmas. He's gone, so he's losing his right to argue. Comrade Damir Sesvečan, here he is. Here you go, fellow Sesvetchan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72949	Dear Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, as regards the Law supplementing the Penal Code, I will say that the adoption or adoption of it is the result of the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia of June of last year, which complemented the provisions of Article 31 of the new paragraph 4 which stipulates that there is no limitation for the offences of war profit, as well as the offences of the process of conversion and privatisation committed at the time of the Homeland War, the peaceful reintegration of the war status of the immediate threat to the independence of the country's territorial integrity prescribed by law and those which do not become obsolete under international law, and which determines that the property benefit achieved by those acts will be subtracted. Further, the Constitutional Law implementing the Constitution of October last year provides for the direct application of certain provisions of the Constitution, as well as those provisions which cannot be applied directly, including the provisions of the Penal Code. Thus, by supplementing the Penal Code, it is proposed to supplement Article 18(2). Criminal law in a way that, with the number of criminal offences that are excluded from the inability to apply the criminal law of the Republic of Croatia such as crimes of genocide, aggressive war, crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes that do not become obsolete under international law. The statute of limitations does not apply to offences which do not become obsolete under the provisions of the Constitution. Thus, it actually allows for the adoption of a special law which further discusses this provision, so it is the adoption of the Law on the Non-depreciation of Crimes of War Profits and Crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation which is therefore with the Penal Code today in front of us at the debate. Therefore, the law, the Law on the Depreciation of Crimes of War Profits and Crimes from the Conversion and Privatisation Process, continues to be complemented by Article 18(2). A criminal law in which, under the provisions of that law, non-deprecated criminal offences are taxed, with criminal offences which do not become obsolete under international law, add a provision on the non-depreciation of criminal offences under the Constitution. In view of the principle of time in force of criminal law which means that the perpetrator was subject to a law which was in force at the time of the offence, it was necessary to accurately count the offences covered by this law which were prescribed by the relevant laws at the time of the offence. Thus, the catalogue of a series of criminal offences under a specific basic criminal law, the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia, the Criminal Code, as well as the Customs Law, the Law on the Issue and Transport of Securities, the Law on the Market of Securities and the Law on Criminal Cases against the Capital Market, is cited, provided that they were committed at the time of the Homeland War and the peaceful reintegration of the war status of the immediate threat to the independence of the State as it is in the law and states. Such offences which will not become obsolete include, among other things, the criminal act of unconscious economic activity, the cause of bankruptcy, the abuse of powers in economic business, the conclusion of a harmful contract, illicit trade, tax evasion, fraud, counterfeiting of documents, abuse of position and authority, unwitting work in service, embezzlement, bribery, bribery, etc., hence, a number of other criminal acts. It is also important to stress that this law, therefore, defines for the first time the crimes of war profiting war crimes and crimes in the process of conversion and privatisation for the first time. In view of this, I will finally say that since the adoption of this law will allow for the non-depreciation, and thus the processing or continuation of the processing of the offences in question, I will support the adoption of these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72950	Thank you very much. We have one replication report. A colleague of the Hill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72951	Dear colleague, I'm interested in one thing. You're saying that the criminal act in the Penal Code is an abuse of bankruptcy, and how to explain where something that destroyed state property belongs, workers remain deprived of their rights to pension contributions and the state remains short for that part because the bankruptcy has not been initiated. So, aren't there double criteria on the scene now? So the abuse of bankruptcy is now punishable, and what someone has stalled with bankruptcy, which has done great damage to the state, to individuals, so citizens, workers, etc., pension funds, health funds, it remains unpunished. I therefore think that this problem should, however, be seen in the context of the Law on the Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, because this was most done as a result of conversion and privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72952	Replication response. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72953	In the catalogue of criminal acts, among other allegations, therefore the criminal offence is caused by bankruptcy. The saying doesn't state what you're talking about. So, what if the bankruptcy didn't start. But I don't know exactly how it was regulated at the time. Also, the duties of members of the administration or supervisory authorities, in certain circumstances, shall be subject to bankruptcy proceedings. Of course, we are all witnesses to the fact that this legislative provision has largely been eskished and that, in fact, even when conditions for the launch of bankruptcy are created for certain reasons, management or supervisory bodies, therefore which are obliged to react do not take action and bankruptcy proceedings. However, this is difficult to respond to in this particular bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72954	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Nenad Stazic is up for debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72955	Thank you very much. The idea of war profiting and privatising crime is to get out of the out-of-date SDPs. It was launched by the first SDP representative then, today by the president of the Republic of Ivo Josipovic. The idea was accepted by HDZ and the constitution was amended. That idea should now be operationalized through the law. It took six months since the Constitutional Law was passed to prepare these two proposals. In the Penal Code it was necessary to change two words, add the Constitution or, Constitution and. Six months it took for that, and here for eight articles also six months. I was also talking about the mess that exists in this legislative practice at the previous point. You don't even know how to write it for a year, a date. Because you're writing that six months after October 22, 2010, it fell in April 2010. Not even that, not a year straight. Did someone examine it before you sent it to the Parliament? Well, now that's a minor remark, that's your clamper that we've been watching all day today not only yours but the government in general, we've been fighting with your schlamper all day long. It is necessary to operate on an idea of punishment for will, political will to punish war profit, profit and privatisation crime. It's the political will to do it. Because this profit was also because this privatisation crime was and should not be stuck in the sand before that. Well, otherwise, central heating installers wouldn't be able to buy oil companies if it weren't for that, and today they're heroes. How do you operate? I think the government had one single idea. Write a superficial law, let it into an emergency procedure even beyond the six-month deadline just so that it could never be applied and only so that no one in this country is responsible for privatisation crime and war profiting. Because the average lawyer, the most average, is going to take down every... This law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because they're going to ask in court, and please, you're bringing up the state of war here. What a state of war when there was no war. I ask that the defendant be released. You can't prove to him that he did something in a state of war when the state of war in Croatia was never declared. Why didn't you take the Law on Revision of Conversion and Privatisation, so why didn't you write this proposal under that law? And finally, why didn't you do it in two readings so that we could make these remarks at first reading? A colleague of the Hill says he doesn't doubt his good intentions. I question the proposing's good intentions. I don't think the proposal's intentions are good. That the intentions of the motionors are to stain the eyes of the citizens, to pretend that you are willing to prosecute turned crime and profit, and in fact you have written a law by which it is impossible, because everyone who comes to the courts under this law will be freed, because by this law does not condemn anyone, nor for anything. You would show good intentions to withdraw this from the procedure, to eventually declare it by first reading, and to make an effort, in the second reading, to take the Law on Audition, Conversion and Privatisation, to invite legal experts, and to make a serious proposal that will really make it possible to pursue someone. What do you do about voting on this bill now? Don't vote him? Vote against him? Well, that means exposure to your criticism, here they are not for punishing profits. Vote him? So you actually agree to this con, the faceless con of citizens, who are promised something, and then what they're promised to do is done so that the implementation of that provision will be impossible. I don't see any other solution, to show any seriousness that today the Government in a parliamentary debate has failed to show in any legal proposal, but not one, so that this goes to another reading. Only in this way and only in this way will we be able to come to this privatisation reform being punished. There's another way, and that's to wait for the election and the new government to write a serious law, and I think that's how it's going to be. Therefore, you have until Friday, until decision-making, gather round, but don't try to lie and cheat like this and deceive people because it won't work out for you. People aren't stupid, and they can read the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72956	Thank you. We've got two credentials reported. A colleague of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72957	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, fellow Stazic, I don't know who gives you the right to debate and state in this way, the citizens didn't give you that right and be sure to deny you further, because Mrs. Jadranka Kosor is the Prime Minister, she's done a lot, and in particular she has the courage to do a lot of things in the field of corruption, of course for that law you didn't vote for, as for a series of things you went out, so now you're afraid. On the other hand, don't make such your boasts, but you're already recognizable by that, so it doesn't even pay to talk about the slapper anymore, I don't know that. You've got the champagne. Watch out you're in 2000 before coming to... They swore they'd all end up in prison, but they didn't end up in jail, they ended up in different hotels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72958	Comrade twilight, exactly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72959	You have your law beautiful, wonderfully done, the people remember it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72960	We've been doing a little bit of righting up, doing a little more polymizing. It's not the first time, not the last time. We'll see about my colleague, the Hrelja, he raised the plate, the replica. Yes, here's a colleague of the Hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72961	So, dear fellow Stazic, in order not to be misunderstood, I respect some people on one side and on the other, I have not doubted the good intentions of my fellow Salapic, that we understand, which does not include the government and these laws and I firmly share your firm and principled position on the cramming around these laws and distorting the initial idea of punishment, on the non-adhesion of war profit and therefore of corruption in the revision of conversion and privatisation, i.e. the destruction of property. What kind of works to me, although the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club will at all vote then, given the respect of the motionary, so to the President of the Republic, and the other I agree with you that it would be very good to have here as well as the law, in the previous Law on the litigation procedure that I have praised, which really merits commending the profession, whether these are optimal solutions, but I think the President of the Republic should also be consulted as the initiator of this whole process. Otherwise, I would have dared to say that I realized from your words that it might be better to pass one law on the examination of the origin of the property and, in a way, to give certain taxes, than this whole farce.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72962	Replication response, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72963	Comrade Hrelj, first of all, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to use the replica. It is the meaning of parliamentary debates, that there is a dialogue, unlike those who do not have the intellectual curricula to lift up the replica, but are replicated under the correct assumption, so that they cannot be answered. That's the thing, that's just intellectual crap. You see, the problem with this is that the state's attorneys say this will be impossible to apply, so those in charge of persecution. That's what this is about. If no public debate had been held in this case, an expert debate, which could of course include the President of the Republic as a prominent lawyer, beginner and ideas. But more importantly, the best legal experts in the country, to get the operational law, the applicable law, not to write such vague provisions, to be careful here in Article 5, otherwise it's here about the basic Criminal Law, so it's called "The People's Newspaper", so the Penal Code, so the Customs Law, even the "People's Journal" didn't state. That's how far that schlamper goes. Until then. Here's article 5, look at it. So this is a question, a political question of a couple of exellances. And there's no point lying about this political issue, there's no point lying. This will have to be told publicly, you did not allow that truth to be said here in the Parliament in two readings, but you speeded it all up, pushed it into procedure, it's Wednesday 18 hours, on Friday it will be voted, without the public's right to participate in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72964	Thank you. And for the debate, an esteemed colleague named Anna Lovrin applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72965	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a very short one, it's all about these laws, about these two laws. Of course these are, the proposal for these laws enables the implementation of constitutional provisions on the non-depreciation of war profits and crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation. Of course, many here like to boast about who is initiator of these constitutional changes, how they came, why they came, but let us not forget that those who boast that and when the proposal of the Constitution was discussed and at all about the introduction of this institute of non-depreciation of these crimes was a big doubt in the professional public. So, the final constitutional provision was accepted, the Constitution in that part was changed primarily because we needed to respect that we were aware of all one deep sense of injustice in the conversion and privatisation and a deep sense of injustice that some during the time while some of the citizens of this country were defending the state was on the first line, building a state, an independent state, a part of which he dealt with as a colleague of indifferences of conversion and privatisation and war profiting. There are now some MPs who are expressing doubts because there has been no declaration of war, how this will be applied, etc., and how they were then able to mentally support and, in fact, boast with proposals to introduce non-depreciation for the crime of war profiting. So if that war profit was not in the war? So it's kind of something that needs to be determined. The amendment of the Penal Code in Article 18 is exactly what it is, therefore, sufficient was indeed one word to remove the inability to apply the criminal law of the Republic of Croatia and the part where the non-depreciation is determined under the Constitution and international law. In order to be able to apply, therefore, it was necessary by some law, which is the one that is ahead of us, to determine the catalogue of war profits and crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation that were committed during a certain period of time. And that means during the Homeland War, peaceful reintegration, war conditions, direct threats, independence and territorial integrity of the state. We can complain, however, it is easiest to object and say I ask my colleagues from the SDP who are now so highly praised, fellow Stazic, that they are the idea, that they are supporters, that they are struggling not to remain unpunished by these crimes, when they are calling for a genius law on the revision of conversion and privatisation, so I ask them what they have been doing for 4 years, they passed the Law on the revision of conversion and privatisation, and did anything under that law happen? Nothing has happened under that law, the time of their reign has passed, and now we're going to introduce this indemnity because we've missed the time to do something about it. So I'm asking, so the State Audit has carried out a full review, why no criminal proceedings have been initiated, why no one has ever been criminalized by the foundation of that then genius law? So not to prolong, I think this is a way to ensure that a fair and just provision is implemented in the Constitution amended last year and therefore practice will show if there are shortcomings somewhere in the application. In any case, or by case law or by subsequent addition of this law, we will do so to the fullest extent possible to implement this constitutional provision. The doubts of the professional public, the legal one, were strongly spoken in the adoption of amendments to the Constitution, and I think there will be many more expert discussions on this law. Because he still has doubts, but given the passage of time it's almost impossible to make up a perfect legal text.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72966	Thank you very much. We've got two calls. Where's the tile? But according to me, the next one is analizing the previous one, and since the previous one was a correction, and the next one, you have the right to a replica, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72967	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I really appreciate my colleague Anna Lovrin, and I'm glad, and I'm giving her the opportunity to respond to the line, but I don't think she's gonna need it because I want to be critical and self-critical because you and I have used the wrong term. I said "failure" in conversion, and you said injustice in conversion. But if that had remained at the level of corruption and injustice, everything would have been fine and we wouldn't have to pass these laws today. Unfortunately, the illegality of conversion is neither injustice nor corruption. These are, and what is at the heart of our interest these are crimes against the state and citizens, it is annihilation of property and it is a threat to citizens' existence as a consequence of illegality in conversion and privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72968	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72969	It was like this in the speech, I used your figure of speech. But of course, it is this law that will become the crime that will still be prosecuted today precisely because of the determination of this catalogue of war crimes and crimes in the conversion and privatisation of this particular period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72970	Thank you. Second replica, colleague Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72971	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Lovrin, I would have actually pulled a dilemma out of your presentation. The revision of conversion and privatisation covers over 80% of the underlying capital, i.e. the estimated value of social enterprises. A full review of the coupon privatisation has been carried out which has actually shown that those who were to be compensated as war victims through coupon privatisation have been damaged. It is also established who are responsible for persons in certain stages of conversion or privatisation. The final report was in 2004, so you can't tell the coalition government led by Ivica Racan that she didn't do anything. So, we got the final report in 2004. What happened? In 2002, we have the first DORH report which he did after then submitted State Audit reports. Maybe you don't know what they wrote back then. They wrote this way that part of it went out of date, and that part of it I can't carry out because there aren't enough court-ordered experts who would be skilled in economic business processes. So there was no will for those who had to do it. It tried to solve the problem in different ways through the so-called. The criminal tax, so we and 2004 and 2005 tried to propose such a law. The problem was, then, that when the revision of conversion and privatisation was completed, the largest part of what the revision had established was those shortened periods of limitation that had been passed by amending the '96 Penal Code. In fact, this whole process that was about conversion and privatisation went out of date, so let me just say, a certain dilemma, let me just say one sentence. Is it possible to solve this by criminal law and not by special law?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72972	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. In conclusion, the esteemed secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in the end, I came to try to clarify some of the doubts that are also colleagues of the Temple and others of the unknown may then have a slightly different view of the whole bill. In fact, the question has been raised whether the crimes that have been catalogically listed in this law existed at the time of the conversion and privatisation of or war in the Republic of Croatia? Well, they did. All criminal offences have been provided for, and therefore there is no breach of the principle of legality. Crimes remain the same only circumstances have changed or some new circumstances have been added. When we talked about the time period, we did not purposely determine the time period because of what we thought would narrow the possibility of application, and it remains in the case of court practice to determine the time period itself. That's what we thought we were giving the width without narrowing down the ability to process. As far as the definition of war is concerned, the definition is literally prescribed by the Constitution. Therefore, it is a definition known to the Constitution and that exists in the Constitution. As far as relative and absolute obsolescence is concerned, it seems to me resolved by the amendment to Article 18(2) because we are just talking about inability or that there is no statute of limitations. So when we talk about obsolescence we're talking about absolute and relative. There's no absolute angle when there's no relative, because the absolute is double relative. Not to enter the polemics of a slightly more professional nature that Professor Djurdjevic warned about, which is why we said that we would change it for the sake of clarity. But if we were to push the mac to the end we shouldn't if there's no relative, there's no absolute. What made me a little sad is the incredible ease of qualified that we've unprofessionally, sleekly made the law. It is very sad to know that Professor Turkovic, Professor Novosel, the deputy chief state attorney, participated in the task force working on the draft of this law. If these aren't respectable figures of criminal law in this country, I don't know, I think they're enough. In the end, I'd like to thank everyone for the debate. We've received amendments, we've also received third reading proposals. We'll consider everything and decide them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72974	Thank you very much. And another correction from my colleague Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72975	Well, I don't think the war situation mentioned in the Constitution is in the context of what's written here. Of course, there is a situation of war in the Constitution, and in the Constitution of every state, there is no doubt about it at all, but it cannot be a state of war written in the Constitution to tie it to the cases of the cleavage that defines this law. And secondly, let's get one situation straight. I did not attack the principle of legality from the position of the catalogue of criminal offences, so in the three Articles 3, 4 and 5, I attacked the principle of legality in the context of Article 6, because some laws did not exist at the time of these offences and some regulatory institutions did not simply exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72976	Thank you, colleagues. And if the secretary of state didn't interfere with attacking the principle but we know what our options are. With these two points, we've come to an end as far as the debate is concerned. The vote will be on Friday on the proposals and amendments submitted. We agreed that we'd be working somewhere by this time today, so I'm going to end up with these points today's work. Tomorrow normally at 9.30 a.m. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on court fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72977	We're moving on to the final draft law supplementing the Penal Code, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 809 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments, Mrs Tatijana Vučetic. Committee on Legislatives, Amendment to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72978	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-11-0.u72979	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Please, let's get involved and vote on the law together with the amendment accepted. At least 77 votes are also needed. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 89 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendment adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue with the work and agenda item announced, which is - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, first reading, P.Z. No. 800 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain? Yeah. Ms Tatijana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
