ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66456	Good morning, everybody. We begin with today's work of the Croatian Assembly with the announced 4th point. That's four. Proposal for a Law on Peace, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 680 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Damir Kontrec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66457	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs. You have before you the text of the new Law on Peace, which brings this matter into line with the Council of Europe's directives. In 2003, the first Law on Peace of the Republic of Croatia passed and the law was a legal framework for development, but also an incentive for affirmation of settlement as one way to resolve disputes. The results that have been achieved from 2003 to today in this sphere are significant, but I would dare say more at the organisational level, slightly less on the very number of cases that have been solved in this way. Namely, through the PHARE 2005 project, strengthening the settlement as an alternative way of resolving disputes results have been achieved in terms of education of a large number of tranquilizers, web pages have been developed within the Justice Ministry information system, a code of ethics has been drawn up for peacemakers, a book of practice that presents a kind of manual to courts for the implementation of the standstill procedure has been established, a Registrar for the Ministry of Justice has been established. With this law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is harmonising legislation with the acquis of the European Union and seeks to enable this law to further develop and accept settlement as a way of resolving disputes and making it equally accessible to the citizens of the European Union and Croatian citizens. I think that in Croatia we must start to develop a culture of dialogue to make reconciliation the first way in which to settle disputes, and that the court will always be the last means to achieve certain legal protection. The law that is before you in itself will not be able to incentivise the procedure without certain other laws. The Ministry of Justice prepares and amends the Law on Prosecution, as well as the Law on Court Taxes, which will seek to foster a peaceful solution to the dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66458	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Legislatives, chairman of the committee, respected Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Legislatives, chairman of the committee, respected Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66460	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament is on 113. The session, held on 25 January 2011, discussed the Proposal for a Law on Peace, with the final draft law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 23 December 2010. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. On the text of the final draft law, the Committee shall make observations and proposals to certain provisions in order to be considered by the applicant and to remove its amendments the shortcomings referred to in the first row to Article 2. It is therefore proposed to review the solution referred to in paragraph 2 to which all information is to be encouraged and encouraged to publish all information on the settlement, with a proposal to regulate the provision so that this solution would not apply to all information, and this could at least be achieved by abandoning everything. Second, Article 6 proposes to review the possibility of setting the second deadline referred to in paragraph 3 in order to ensure that the parties, i.e. the party initiating the standstill procedure, do not abuse this institute, i.e. to prevent its abuse and delay the proceedings. In the whole text, it is proposed to review the possibility of a notional alignment of expressions because, with the concept of calming that marks and permanent action, it is not possible to attach itself to the concept of a tranquilizer indicating the finished action. In this respect, the concept of interpretation of the law is, therefore, all of them under the heading above Article 4 and the interpretation of this law in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 4, but it is essentially only the principles for the implementation of this law, i.e. the application of other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66461	Thank you. Anyone else want any of the board? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. As is the subject, and so is the suggestion of colleagues here, even though it is from our opposing club, but I agree that we should speak at peace first of all when this bill is like this. Unfortunately, there is little dialogue in Croatia, there is a lot of propaganda, but we are not developing a general culture of peace. Our entire history and the history of almost all countries is mostly the history of war, while the 21st century for the benefit of all, Croatia, Croatia, which will be in the European Union tomorrow as a peaceful nation and which can first and foremost solve its own conflicts by peaceful means. Perhaps there is something else in general that needs to be learned about. Unfortunately, here is the sixth, seventh year since the promise that the teaching subject of a culture of dialogue, education for democracy, for the peaceful resolution of all conflicts will be a teaching programme starting from the earliest days of schooling, and even in kindergarten, has not yet come to life. However, it should be believed that this should happen even in the autumn as a mandatory subject. If we had one of those solid foundations, then I'm sure this proposal for a Law on Peace, which is an addition to the law that we've passed since 2003, wouldn't be a problem. Unfortunately, although we at the SDP club will support such a proposal for a law on settlement because it introduces even greater standards to the basic law as I mentioned in 2003. The basic meaning and purpose of this Law is to reconcile the parties. In this way, we address first and foremost the problem of a large number of still-restricted cases and those cases that are disputed before the courts. These are still litigation, while different measures, different laws still solved a large number of cases that burdened the judiciary, which are not the trial in that narrow sense of the word. Therefore, the basic objective of this Law, and this fundamental one of ours, is, and should be, the very component and reform of the judiciary to be resolved by peaceful means, where it is not rare for some litigation to last for 20 years or even 30 years. But also as a way of solving all future cases as the best, most efficient. And let's not forget the cheapest. Cheapest for the country, but above all the cheapest for the participants themselves, i.e. potential parties in the case. But here's the situation where we can really be concerned about what's going to happen to our national welfare. Will we be able to leave them in the inheritance of our children, our grandchildren tomorrow? This remains a major issue, given the currentity of the policy and the sale of the national goods. But now we can safely say that many litigations will be transferred to inheritance. So, that people of their property will bring litigation to their children for inheritance. How do you stop it? The basic question arises why the law, which is full of seven years in application, did not revive in its fullness. The truth is, when a law like this is passed the first time we did it in 2003, he does not experience any greater success at the beginning and in the early years, which is even understandable. Because whenever a new institution is introduced into some legal order, then it takes time for it to come back to life. Perhaps the initial bad results should not be discouraged. It was a system of all countries and the experiences of all countries that for the first time introduced the peace. As an example, it may be best to list the state of Texas in the United States where, in the mid-'60s, a major problem has arisen in the 1970s. One powerful power then claimed that she had no funds or money to build new courts. And so he set off a way, an alternative way to resolve court disputes. At first, there were poor results. Next year, 30%. After 5 years to 70% of cases are dealt with in this way. Unfortunately, here we are, only in 2006 was the pilot programme introduced and implemented. Although 3 years behind, it was still encouraging that after a successful pilot, the programme would continue to settle as one of the usual before the proceedings, i.e. with an optimistic way of looking at how to resolve disputes. However, this did not happen even though experience in our pilot program shows that from 30 or even up to 50% of such cases was resolved by a peaceful route. So this was supposed to be a government indication that it was one excellent way of resolving disputes and that our people, that our citizens are not litigative nature, are not contentious, but simply have no choice but to solve their problems through court. The historians claimed that even the ancient Phoenicians, so where the developed trade had peacemakers, and Babylonians. Of course, these were always people who had a lot of experience, who were first and foremost evaluated in their micro-community as people of high moral principles, people who enjoyed great trust and great prominence in their environment. Only they are able to resolve the dispute in a peaceful manner, i.e. the parties, and even the opposing parties trust them. It should also be a basic and basic starting point for the peacemakers, although I see that a list of the peacemakers has already been made at the Ministry of Justice. The basic characteristics of calming are dissipability. So it may not be good for parties to make peace while they are already in the dispute. Therefore, they should be able to freely dispose of their authority and their ability to do so. But when we do, and in our law, it's just dissipated. So, good will whether they settle or not. But then the government needs to do everything possible to make peace available, that simple propaganda is done in this sense continuously, not periodically, possibly more for the purpose of promoting the government itself when elections are made. Here's what the government is offering you. But it should be a continuous campaign, a constant campaign, the availability of flyers in all courts, that people simply see that possibility and they will then take advantage of it. The rest of the greatest characteristics and good characteristics of this calming is informality. The peacemakers in their proceedings are not bound by strict rules of litigation. The second, or third significant feature of calming is flexibility. I've already said something about volunteering. But it's also one of the most important characteristics, and it seems to me that there are some things here that need to be clarified so as not to cause confusion, which is confidentiality. There is no rest unless all the data in that calming process are confidential in nature. Which means if the peace doesn't work, that the willingness to settle one party doesn't get used like one party that might have a weaker outlook in the case, which is why they want to stay calm. In practice, however, the most common is the opposite case. It is those who violate other people's rights who do not rest, but who see their chance in the longevity of the procedure. So the long-term process simply encourages citizens to violate other people's rights. So confidentiality is one of the most important characteristics of calming down. Similarly, one interesting orientation, therefore, is that the parties are not there, in this settlement procedure only related to the claim, but that eventually some other unsettled matters can be resolved in this settlement procedure and that ultimately the settlement reached has the power of enforceability in these matters, even though it did not insist on the claim. And what's in our terms, but also in not only our terms, is very important and it's a low price of calming down. Procedures as many court charges as they were in 2002 have been halved, the court proceedings are still very expensive. It is always embodies with the cost of time and the cost of significant resources, both for the parties, and for all participants in the process, as well as for the state itself. And finally, last but not least, perhaps most importantly, that's the speed of action. The speed of action is also a fundamental principle of law, doubles the one that quickly gives on one side, and on the other, what is often the case with us, which is that longevity, that slow justice is essentially no justice, but even injustice. It's an old principle when there weren't yet special peacemakers and tranquilizers in our recent history, and even slightly further legal history, our old lawyers had one good principle, at a time when there weren't so many proceedings before the court, and when the other cases were not so much burdened by the judiciary. The basic principle was these experienced, our old lawyers who were proud, I believe in Croatian legal history, is a better thin settlement than a fat case. As a result, a number of provisions in the Law on Procedural Procedure also refer to the mandatory action carried out by the court. If we rely a little on the Law on Prosecution, and the Secretary of State has tied this Law to the Law on Prosecution, which we have changed a lot in terms of its effectiveness, acceleration, and the discipline of all procedural participants as well as the powers of the judge, to prevent any abuse of rights. Unfortunately, this isn't happening yet. Many participants continue to look at the various delays and abuses of procedural powers. That is why new amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure need to be made, where first and foremost the one who leads, who is responsible, and that is the judge, where basic, where basic and basic deadlines would be legal, pre-inclusive, and not instructive deadlines. Here's to this calming, let's remember and remind ourselves of the provision of Article 321. The law on litigation that speaks of the judge's duty to try a peaceful solution to the dispute. So it is said that during the proceedings, the court will warn the parties of the possibility of a settlement and help them make a deal. We still saw in 2000, 2001 and 2002 that the state was the most notorious litigator. Unfortunately, that's how it is today. This is why it was introduced into the Law on the litigation of the provision of Article 176a which requires a possible prosecutor, who intends to sue the state, to try a peaceful solution to the dispute with the state through the State's attorney, who, in his civil department, is in charge of this particular matter. We do not think that to a large extent this provision is respected, and the most important thing is that it has its financial difficulties, even when the state concludes through the State's Attorney's Office with the party's settlement, it is not being implemented precisely because of a lack of financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66463	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66464	The SDP club will support this bill and simply ask the Government to increase these funds because the 100 funds that are designated here as the necessary means to implement this law are not precise, and that means we will have a law that we will not implement again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66465	Thank you very much. It's next to the HNS club, HSU, the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66466	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support the proposal for a new Law on Peace, however, we would like to highlight several very important elements that testify that new solutions are being born tirelessly, so in the Croatian legislative framework. And on the other hand, point to a series of gaps that we've made in proposing this new law. What's this about? The Law on Peace is a classic example of how, in fact, in Croatian legislation, it is difficult, hard, slow, quite unfairly slow and difficult to introduce news, or better solutions than those we have so far. Let's look at the fate of this law. The Law on Peace was passed in 2003 and then he had 18 articles. It was the law, then accompanied by rather ambitious claims, that the new law would actually enable a reduction of judicial litigation and that the new system, or the peace institute, would probably help resolve disputes. We believe that all those who were behind such claims had good desires and intentions. However, the practice has shown that according to the new law, all these new standards are not easy to implement and it took a full 5 years, so by 2008, it would be time to introduce a new, more modern, more flexible in any case solutions that would allow for a better, simpler, more direct application of the peace institute. And what happened? In 2008, we passed a law that has 17 articles. Of these 17 articles, 16 articles amend those articles under the 2002 Act. So each article reads, "The article changes that and that in a way that goes." So we changed almost all the articles of the 2003 law. Well, of course, we need to change solutions that have not shown and endured the test of time, the test of practice. But what happened to us again? So, not a year and a half after that, the expert team within the PHARE programme, which implements a special stand-by project, gives a whole series of recommendations that make it clear that such a set legal framework cannot even give any concrete solutions, i.e. effects and significantly reduce the existing level of litigation by offering an alternative peace institute rather than actually accessing full system reformation. And today we have a 27 - article law. We support it, we fully understand why it is proposed, we fully understand and support the Institute of Peace as such. He has no alternative, therefore, to litigation, to conflicts, to everything that counterpart Ingrid Anticevic said on behalf of the SDP. So, it's all there. The fact is that every trial is expensive, complicated, long-term. That every slow justice is a weak justice, that every quick giving is double giving. It's all right. However, are we doing this order in order to formally improve the standards that we have defined within the rest institute, or are we doing it on the basis of certain knowledge? Namely, what we don't know at all, and what condicio makes qua non-quality decision on all of this. First of all, how much did this way of resolving disputes live up to? Is there a codified procedure based on past experiences? How many tranquilizers, for example, have been introduced into the register at all? How many cases have been solved by sitting still as an alternative to a trial? How much did we really relieve the courts? Therefore, there is neither in the proposal of this law nor in the accompanying explanation of these types of arguments nor quality expectations based on a certain analysis of what is really going to happen. Are we now, in some way, washing our conscience again by saying that this set legal framework will definitely finally relieve the courts because here it is now no longer a optional matter but is now practically an obligation for whoever is running the procedure to offer the parties peace as an alternative if he estimates that there are elements to reach a settlement agreement. So, that's a lot of progress, we agree. But he's still not a commitment. On the other hand, we've done a lot, especially through this PHARE project on capacitation, on the education of the peacemakers. It would be good if we took all of this seriously enough to really make the most of what we've done now as a preparation. But for that, we need data that we have achieved in the last nine years, or 8 years from 2003 to today, by introducing an institute of rest and whether or not we have taken this issue seriously. And are we really behind the assessment that calming is a quality alternative? How serious are we, or are we, having such a conversation? It is our wish, that we from the HNS-HSU really take this seriously and that we really understand that this is an opportunity that can open new perspectives in dispensing the trial and simply breaking up that name about Croats as people who like to sue hard and not like to settle. It seems not true to us, and I think that a more serious approach, education, informing people who are coming to the courts, especially by introducing a higher level of the judge's obligation to warn the parties about the possibility of reaching an agreement by settling that important things can change. But we must not take it formally but as a real, living institute that can produce great results. And hopefully in a year or two, we'll get feedback on what we've done with a law like this. Because no information about what the law has done since 2003, we haven't heard here since 2008. That's too bad! That's too bad, because whatever the truth is, it's always a good basis for quality decision-making. We've heard, some mention hundreds of thousands of objects that stifle our courts that could be qualified to subdue under the rest category, that might find a solution simpler and faster in that institute, but we don't know anything about it yet, but we're mostly guessing. Giving this institute a chance, giving the government a chance, especially to the Ministry of Justice and the judicial authorities, to open up a larger space to this institute of HNS-HSU, our Club of Representatives will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66467	Thank you. It's the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As the strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia say, calming as one of the alternative ways of resolving disputes is an institute of special interest for the Republic of Croatia, it is carried out in the public interest and implementation is ensured by the Republic of Croatia. Peace as an alternative way of resolving disputes contributes to the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period that is guaranteed both by our Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Calming contributes to reducing the workload of courts, speeding up procedures and ensuring faster and cheaper citizens get to their laws of guaranteed and protected rights. Peace also has an extremely important additional benefit, I would say, which is the development of a tolerated environment, it is the preservation of good relations, enabling further joint business, i.e. co-existence and good communication, primarily here I mean economic disputes, trade disputes, but also family disputes, neighbourly relations that will not happen as when it happens in a court procedure that has always won and the winners later produce one bad relationship, but by some compromise solution this dispute will be resolved and allow as I have said good further communication. The process of promoting settlement as an effective way of resolving disputes in the Republic of Croatia has indeed started with the adoption of the first law in 2003 with a novel of the 2009 Law and is being systematically implemented until today. The 2005 Justice Reform Strategy identified as a special document of the strategy for developing alternative ways of resolving disputes that had been foreseen by the development phases and activities since the establishment of the structure of the peaceholders, mutual cooperation, the education of the peacemakers, the register of the peacemakers, the systematic promotion and information of citizens on the advantages of the peace. In assessing today or recently that the Institute of Peace still has room for strengthening and affirmation, a new strategy for judicial reform and action plan has also established further measures, one of these measures is the adoption of this Act which we are discussing today as well as further promotion of this institute and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also adopted a strategic study on the development of a civil and commercial system. During the current period of systematic work and promotion, significant shifts have been made, the comparative benefits of settlement have been popularised in all disputes in which the parties freely distribute their rights, particularly through the PAR 2005 project strengthening and settlement as an alternative way of resolving disputes. The High Commercial Court has so far been particularly engaged in the peace of trade and promoting and popularising world experience, mainly in the area of economic disputes, in which the United States is now preceding the United States, we have heard today an example from one of the United States. The Ministry of Justice encouraged the conclusion of agreements with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, taking part in part in the costs of the organisation of the systems in those institutions, also with the HUP, with the Social Partnership Office, etc. And also the establishment of the Centre for Peace in Courts and pilot projects in individual work disputes. We have heard here today that there are no data in the successes of the peacemaking process so far, it is true that there is no explanation of this Law which might be good, but here I have some information on the settlements in court and out of court, so we have the information that the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb in 2010 had 288 proposals for calming down, of which 286 was successfully and positively completed, so by settlement and that this figure is significantly increasing compared to 2009. Also some courts record a significant increase, courts in Slavonski Brod and Rijeka. The trade court in Zagreb in 2010 had 56 proposals for a settlement of which 8 were positively resolved, and there is one information that is not really good for the general situation of disputes, and this would result in a delay in the dispute being paid off which is not good, measures should be taken in the CAP to stop it from being so. Because he says that the explanation of this few positive cases of settlement in the Commercial Court and the decline in procedures is the reason for the lack of money because the parties would settle, they would settle, but there's simply no money to pay off what they would agree to. So it's a signal to the Ministry of Justice that, as part of the amendments to the Law on a litigation procedure, he takes account of it. As regards extra-judicial rest in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the number of calmings is on the rise, that 30 proposals were made in 2010, in Chamber 3, at the Peace Association 4, especially a large number of settlement procedures, the Croatian Insurance Office in 2010 increased by as much as 375% compared to 2009. In the Croatian Employers' Association, they mention the special success of the settlement at the Banking Centre due to the strong promotion that the association took in 2010. Then, at the Centre for Peace at the Croatian Bar, special education for lawyers at peacemakers and special stimulations, or incentives for lawyers who successfully resolve the procedures of settlement, they will be engaged in both priority and future reconciliation procedures. The Social Partnership Office notes that there are twice as many successful settlement procedures in collective labour disputes as in 2009. And, in conclusion, all of this data concludes that the current court order is on the rise in relation to the outside of court, that very often the success of judicial action depends on the involvement of the President of the Court, and another indication that the number of proceedings in motion and the success of the settlement depends on how strong the communication strategy is towards the citizens and how strong the promotion of the peace is. Here, that's what's happened so far, and now a few words about the law we're discussing today. I wouldn't say that today's new law brings anything revolutionary, but it's a continuation of the previous law. It is not true that it introduces mandatory calming, as the Law on litigation provided that the judge must refer the parties or propose a possible settlement to them, in the same way that he now has an obligation to remain in accordance with the ZPP if one party in the procedure of the State. Thus, this law says that it is during a judicial, administrative or other procedure that is being conducted that the body that leads to it will recommend the parties to settle by giving them all the advantages of the settlement procedure, but that does not mean that it is mandatory and it would not be good. This law does not bring in any revolutionary paper, it only improves and elaborates and develops certain institutions established by the existing law and aligns it with the European Parliament and Council's 2008 directive on certain aspects of settlement in civil and commercial disputes. And one of the main newspapers seems to me to be the introduction of a whole new chapter into this law, which is the calming in cross-border disputes that the provisions will take effect on the day of the entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia, and this chapter has elaborated a settlement procedure between persons residing in EU member states and persons residing outside EU member states. What I think is particularly important and I think it is worth pointing out the development of the institute in this new law is Article 13 which speaks of the effects of the settlement when the settlement is and under what conditions and how the executive document can therefore go straight into effect and Article 17 which discusses the effects on the limitation periods and deadlines for filing an action. Why is this good? The former law only had a provision to launch a break-up procedure, which could lead to the abuse of party rights to delay proceedings and all the time as long as they conducted their procedure so that outdated deadlines do not run. Of course, that argument may be that the parties agreed on it, but at times, parties may use their mutual rights which the law should prevent, so that is exactly what this law has done, and it has decreed that the parties should not lose their ability to initiate judicial arbitration or other proceedings because of the standstill procedure, but subject to certain conditions limiting. Therefore, the initiation of the standstill procedure is interrupted, but unless the settlement is completed by a settlement, it is considered that the statutes were not obsolete unless, within 15 days of the completion of the settlement procedure, an action or any other legal action is brought forward by the continuation of the procedure. I think it's a good stipulation and a good provision. Something about the deadlines that were discussed here, the Legislative Committee noticed that. Namely, deadlines of 15 days shall be established in which the other party must respond unless otherwise agreed by the parties as in the provisions on the completion of the settlement procedure, they shall say that the settlement procedure is completed if the agreement is not concluded within 60 days. But it does say, or in the second time, in accordance with the agreement of the parties. Well, I also think it would be good to think in some way about how these deadlines would be limited rather than depending solely on the will of the party. Finally, the peace should be promoted, highlighted by its advantages and promoted by the already-provided benefits for the parties already taught to the parties. Peace cannot be ordered, it is not good by the nature of things to order, because you cannot force anyone to reconcile, and what is shown in those cases where, by law, an attempt to stay calm is required if it is only because of the coercion itself, never by reconciliation or the end. Therefore, the party needs to gain confidence in the system of calming and to understand the parties and to recognise the very well-being. I agree that this should be preceded by the state, so according to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, it is mandatory to try a settlement in procedures in which one party is a state. That's what I've talked about very often, I repeat, and now that an ex-legislator of the state is expected and should be a far more proactive role in these proceedings. In fact, it is not enough that the state body represented or the state when representing the State Attorney's Office is simply asked by a memo whether it will comply with its obligation, whether it will make a deal. Short term for most bodies, because usually they don't have the means is the answer no. but we can analyse all these procedures that have resulted in the long-term damage to the state due to interest and legal costs and that it would be far more useful for the state to make deals in time, including with a postponement of payments. And for this reason, I appeal to the State's Attorney's Office to take a more proactive role in the settlement procedures, primarily because of the well-being of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66469	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear State Secretarys, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HSS Club will also support the bill. But I will try to explain briefly the reasons why we are doing so. The first Law on Peace of the Republic of Croatia adopted in 2003. It was a legal framework for development, as well as for encouraging the affirmation of settlement as one way to resolve disputes. It is safe to say that the law has done so to a greater extent. In fact, the alternative way of resolving disputes in their modern and modern form and understanding prior to the adoption of the first Law on Peace in the Republic of Croatia did not have a tradition or very little knowledge of them. From the adoption of that law to its 2009 novel, that is, this new law, there has been a major affirmation, but there has been a significant development of awareness of its advantages in relation to judicial proceedings as a regular course of legal protection. The development of calming is an important part of the Strategy for the reform of the judicial system, a strategic document setting out guidelines for the development of the Croatian judiciary, as well as measures to make it faster, more efficient or modernised to meet the high demands of modern society. It is further pointed out that for the development of calming is a significant and recent completion of the PHARE 2005 project, i.e. the correct name is strengthening the settlement as an alternative way of resolving disputes approved and financed by the European Union. Its aim was to establish a sustainable structure and system for calming in the Republic of Croatia. This project has also produced a number of significant results, has been educated by a large number of tranquilizers, a web site has been developed specialising in the framework of the Ministry of Justice information system, a code of ethics has been adopted for the peacemakers, so on. a book of practices that presents a kind of handbook to courts for the implementation of the standstill procedure, established the Registrar of Recipients and Accredited Peace Institutions led by the Ministry of Justice. Most importantly, a communication strategy has been developed to develop ways of getting to know the public with the benefits of calming and thus to get potential users to use peace as much as possible. Another reason for the adoption of the new Law on Peace is full harmonisation with the new Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 on certain aspects of settlement in civil and commercial matters. In addition to compliance with the acquis of the European Union, this law will allow further development and acceptance of settlement as a way of resolving disputes and an equal availability of peace between citizens of the European Union and Croatian citizens. Peaceful dispute resolution is becoming a political priority in the European Union, but also the civilization achievement of every modern state. This law, but also further affirmation and development of settlement, will bring the Republic of Croatia significantly closer to European standards. We will also try to point out some of the articles of the law that we consider to be important, so immediately from Article 1 where the scope of the law is regulated, as well as as the same as the principle that it does not restrict the use of the settlement wherever possible, where paragraph 3 of this Article stresses that this law applies as cross-border disputes within the meaning of the European Parliament's Directive on certain aspects of settlement in civil, commercial matters. Both cross-border disputes involving parties from other countries outside the European Union. Article 5 points out that the settlement procedure can also be carried out when a judicial, arbitration or other proceedings are already being conducted on the same case. In the meaning of this Article, the space for calming remains constantly open, whether the dispute has already arisen or has already been brought before another competent authority. During the second procedure, it is not a procedural obstacle to the launch and successful implementation of the settlement which will, as a rule, lead to the end of all other procedures already in place. In Article 8 it is of paramount importance because it contains the main obligations and duties of the peacemaker in the settlement process. It regulates the general obligation to act impartially and equally with each of the parties and to make an indication of any circumstances which may lead to reasonable doubt of the impartiality and independence of the reconciliation. It is one of the few norms of law of which, in the interest of the integrity of the proceedings, neither the party nor the settlers are able to withdraw by agreement. Article 13 is one of the most important articles on our part and it regulates the effect of the settlement concluded in the settlement procedure, i.e. the prescribed conditions under which the settlement may be concluded. It is prescribed that the settlement shall take effect between the parties and create an obligation which the parties are obliged to enforce in due time and that the mediation settlement shall also have an executive title which may be directly carried out if it contains an explicit clause of permission for the enforcement of which the obligor unconditionally allows the enforcement within the period of validity of the demand. The alternative parties may agree that, if they so meet their needs, they shall regulate the settlement in another form which will ensure direct enforcement of the settlements. Article 17 regulates one of the basic postulates of settlement, which is that parties who have chosen to settle the dispute must not lose the possibility of a judicial, arbitration or other judicial procedure due to the expiry of the limitation or pre-exclusive period. These provisions are also in line with the rules of the European Union Directive. And not at all important, Article 19, which regulates the possibility of important, especially in terms of development and promotion, that a body run by a judicial, administrative, or other procedure may recommend a calming or invite the parties to an informative meeting on the use of calming. And here for all of these reasons and explanations of these articles, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66471	Thank you. That's what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66472	Your Honor, Vice President. Representatives of the proposing, colleagues and colleagues. So calming down as an alternative method of dispute resolution is one of the significant civilization achievements. The development of alternative ways of resolving disputes in Croatia has been given its legislative framework, which was a lot of talk in 2003 when the Law on Peace was passed, but it should be stressed that at this very job and about the adoption of the trade unions played a significant role. Peace is aimed at helping workers, but it also aims to help employers to come out of the dispute by avoiding long-term and expensive court proceedings and disputes. The calming system in Croatia should be developed to the extent that the court dispute remains an alternative to the settlement of the alternatives to the case. With this approach, we will reduce the current congestion of Croatia's courts with various disputes. I'll remind you that in 2009, there were about a million pending court disputes of which 1/3 referred to labour disputes. The courts in Croatia are so covered up that there are about 3600 disputes coming to court annually, while in Finland I will remind you of the 100,000 inhabitants of only 180 disputes per year. It is not surprising, therefore, that a large number of disputes result in a lagging somewhere around 635 disputes per judge. Looking at statistics, every judge should only be two to three years behind bars without being added new items, and as we know, the impossible mission itself. If we had previously developed a system of calming most likely courts in Croatia would not be suffocating in work disputes today. A lot of them are running back in the period I'll remind you between '96. In 2003 and 2003, with 230 thousand lawsuits of which 170,000 were applied to workers' claims from labour disputes or employment relations. The judiciary in Croatia often resents the number of judges, because we have an average of 43 judges per 100,000 inhabitants in Croatia. Many other countries have far fewer judges but are much more effective in resolving disputes. For example, Germany, which lists the same population, means these 100,000 I talked about, is about 25 judges. Finland has a population of 100,000 17 judges. Great Britain with only three judges per 100,000 inhabitants. In these countries, however, the number of lawyers per judge is far greater than ours. Croatia has only two. Germany only has six lawyers per judge. I mean, he's got more than us. Great Britain has as many as 82. And I think the fact is that there's a partial solution and a solution to the speedy disputes. The peace is based, as we know, on the volunteering and consent of parties who can propose a peaceful solution to the dispute throughout the proceedings either in front of the court or the county peace centres in Croatia. It's important to stress because I think someone said we don't have an educated person to calm down. We do. Currently in Croatia we have 242 persons who have passed the full training procedure for peacemakers for individual and working disputes, and 17 counties and the City of Zagreb, and 8 peace coaches. A significant role in the peace we have already heard has been played by the Economic Social Council in particular in the counties co-ordinated by the Social Partnership Office. We must see the peace as a new standard of socially responsible business where trade unions and employers have to participate actively. In the United States here, someone mentioned, 95% of the disputes are settled outside the court. So in one of these alternative ways, where lawyers play a key role in identifying these very alternative dispute resolutions. On the contrary, it seems to me that our lawyers have an interest in taking as long as possible. The Dutch, for example, have been using the rest institute successfully since 1995, resulting in only 4% of the total number of disputes ending in trial or court proceedings. The Dutch compromise is as normal as sex for normal people. The lawyers in the Netherlands have a special role of calming down, which is even bound by an ethical code that says I'm going to quote it. A lawyer must bear in mind that a friendly deal is always in front of a lawsuit. It must seek to achieve the most favourable solution for the client in order to save him money and time. They have gone so far in peace, which would also be a good example for Croatia if they had established various peacemakers' associations. For example, they have an Association of Lawyers who deal with the area of calming down. Then they have an Association of Psychologists, and they even have a Association of Public Libraries that they use for family peace. Recruiters in Croatia play a special role, because unlike judges and arbitarians, they generally do not judge or judge, but they are trying to help conflicted parties to come to a solution themselves and decide how to resolve the dispute. Following the end of the settlement procedure, the agreement shall have legal force and the effect of the collective agreement. So that's the final solution. Finally, I will remind myself of some positive examples, for there was the same mention here that we did not have the opportunity to read these positive examples. Here's what I'm going to do. For example, a dispute that lasted since '95. A year. He's been in court for 10 years. In this standstill procedure, he's only been resolved in two hours. Or, for example, a dispute that was worth 250,000 kunas also retreated in court for two years, perhaps even withdrawing. It's been solved for less than an hour. So these are extremely important examples that prove how important and significant peace is and how it should be further developed in any case. So we didn't find any hot water. This warm water already exists only needs to be directed and used wisely. And I say, there are many more positive examples, but I think these examples that I have cited are certainly enough to understand the importance and need to promote an alternative way of resolving disputes in Croatia. And I think that, as we can see, there is a very high consensus among all parties that this law is supported and that we are simply still looking for new models. We normally use those experiences that already exist in other countries and that we apply it to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66473	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66474	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that I will support the adoption of the Law on Peace as an alternative to dispute resolution. Although the Republic of Croatia is one of the countries that do not have the tradition of calming down since the 2003 Law on Peace, the adoption of a 2009 novel has had an affirmation with us. Therefore, further affirmation of the standstill is an important part of the Justice System Reform Strategy. Proposing a new Law on Peace, the Government of the Republic of Croatia fully aligns this issue with the legal acquis of the European Union, in a way that ensures that settlement is accepted as a way of resolving disputes, and equal access to citizens of the European Union and Croatian citizens. The law regulates the settlement procedure in a way that discusses the start of the settlement procedure, the appointment of the peacemaker, the obligation of the peacemaker, the implementation of the settlement, the effect of the settlement, the authorisation of the evidence. The law also regulates settlement in cross-border disputes. Perhaps it would be good for the proponent to assess the situation and the fundamental issues which he proposes to regulate by this law that the basic data on the settlements achieved during the application of the current laws, both in judicial and non-judicial arrangements, and what trends are in one and the other. For this reason, given that this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, and that conditions are created for discharging courts, i.e. the pre-conditions of their faster and more effective work, thus achieving positive effects in reforming the judicial system, I support the adoption of the Law on Peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66475	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. It would be strange if we did not have the consent of all parties here in the Croatian Parliament, because above all this law is positive for both the Republic of Croatia and the parties in the proceedings. We say that this law is relatively new, that he has not yet experienced his affirmation in Croatia, but this time behind us shows positive shifts, because unfortunately what is tradition in us, for example. In Slavonia, a man drinks a little more, so he takes two extra scars, and he fights with his neighbor, and this one sues him, and then they burden the court with stupidity, which can be solved in such a peaceful conversation, where a man can be understood in a different way. I think this law is positive, and therefore should not go negatively, but give its contribution to each by, and especially by the judiciary to make a step towards the public, to inform people,... to learn at school, as children learn at school, as we learn in politics from today some new experiences and things, as well as citizens, those who use protection against our courts and laws should be educated that this one standstilling procedure is very positive, as the financial impact for them will be far less than what they could pay for in a regular court procedure. [[You don't understand.]] What is important in this Law of Peace, it does not violate anything under other regulations and laws, if the procedure is initiated, so those deadlines that would run under this law stop, if the parties do not agree within the time limits prescribed by law, the procedure continues. But in any case, it should also be advised to help the parties to make this law, the reconciliation process, something that will enable them to have a better effect in the dispute, enables us in the judiciary ourselves to be flexible, and then to make it easier for the parties to agree because they are not in those legal and time-limits and regulations that are sometimes more difficult and therefore burdensome for the Croatian judiciary itself and then we say that we have a lot of items behind us, so this is something that is positive, and we need to make a full contribution and provide financial resources, both for these shifts that we made on this PHARE programme from the website, from the list of tranquilizers, from the education of the Ministry of Justice's information programme, where the information goes to the public, where people can be informed, should do everything to get their full contribution. This is the third novel of the law, this is something called the modernisation of this legislation, something that is harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, with the European Union's directives of 2008 and with the applicable European law, we think that the Republic of Croatia is today, when we are on the trail of the conclusion of negotiations, when we will become a full member and are very ready to fully implement one law, such as the Law on Peace. So there is no reason to disagree here, to say that this is not good, but we should make a contribution to each of us on our own and inform the public and citizens that this is exactly one of the laws that will greatly help both the parties and the Croatian judiciary as a whole. I support this law and I will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66477	Thank you. It is time for the honourable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66478	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary. So here, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, is the urgent procedure of the proposal of the Law on Peace, which sets out Article 1 of the Regulation, on the rights which the parties are free to dispose of, and primarily in civil, commercial and labour disputes, but also to settle in other disputes, if that corresponds to the nature of the legal work, from which the dispute arises. In relation to the current law, this law aims to strengthen access to calming, strengthen awareness of settlement as a dispute settlement process, and ensure a certain balance between settlement and court proceedings. The settlement procedure as one of the forms of alternative dispute resolution is based on several principles. Some of them have already been mentioned during the debate, and I think they are also one of the most important principles of volunteering and the principle of consensus. These principles mean that the settlement procedure begins, takes place and ends with the free will of the parties, so the parties fully control the procedure, allow them broad autonomy and agreeable solution to the dispute. As regards the development of the Institute of Peace on the Institute, development has also been quite said in the debate so far, but I will repeat that it was introduced by the 2003 Law on Peace, and its development was continued in the framework of the 2005 Justice Reform Strategy, which was an integral part of the strategy for developing alternative dispute resolutions. Furthermore, in May 2009, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a strategic study on the development of the system of calming in civil and commercial procedures in the Republic of Croatia, based on the basic law, so on a novel of July 2009 to a large extent and amended. Also, recommendations for strategic study came from the PHARE 2005 project, strengthening settlement as an alternative way of resolving disputes, and in line with the European Parliament and Council Directive of 21 May 2008. So, following all of this, specifically this law regulates its scope, gives definitions, regulates the issue of movement, and the end of the proceedings, conditions, appointments, duties and powers of the settler, the issue of communication with the parties, the issue of confidentiality, the inaccessibility of evidence and incompatibility of functions, the issue of statutes, etc. So, all of those things that are necessary for good regulation and application of this law. Therefore, since I believe that this law will, in accordance with the highest standards of the EU, allow for further development of the rest institute, contribute to its affirmation and quality, which will result in a certain reduction in the burden of courts and an increase in their efficiency, and, of course, in increasing the efficiency of the judicial system, I will generally support the adoption of this law and emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66479	Thank you. It is now up to the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry. So here's what we can really ask ourselves from the relationship we've had with this institution so far, is whether or not we're just washing our consciences, or in terms of discharging the courts. Although of course this is a commendable project for the reason that corruption is being prevented in the first order, and then the costs in exhausting court disputes are significantly reduced, unfortunately for some participants in the litigation process are very often and unfairly rich. Of course, this law shows that the basis for the development of the settlement is essentially state institutions, but they must, they are actually obliged to meet citizens in these alternative ways of resolving court disputes. However, as far as I'm aware, not a single settlement process has been carried out in, with me in particular in the city of Dubrovnik, and we know that in commercial courts we also have major blockades of huge money in court proceedings and, of course, there is further non-payment in business relations. So it's going round and round. I'd like to say one more thing, it's obvious that there's been a growing number of judges for the judges lately. I wonder if that's a good thing just because these judges are the same judges in court disputes. I wonder if the date's good? Because the judge, of course, judges by profession. It's not a process of calming down. The calming process means, in my opinion, it should be more directed to civil institutions, NGOs such as in the EU. We have also heard from previous discussions that in the process of settlement the costs are, of course, reduced to a minimum while in court disputes prices of the hearing hearing reach values that exceed the values of the assets around which the dispute is being conducted. Each of us, not necessarily judicial professions, can list a variety of absurd examples, so we also have various examples where simply a party who is in a dispute and who is wrong can make disputes more difficult and thus increase costs. I would quote Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, who at a time when she was Minister of Justice when she said that "it will be much harder to change habits so that our tendency to trial is replaced by much cheaper and faster dispute settlement arrangements"; and that is correct. However, it has been a long time since this first law was passed during our government. I wonder what was waiting for, why the peace-making didn't come to life? And of course, the judicial capacity of no country can absorb the number of objects that are being placed before them. Of course, it is difficult to change the habits and awareness of our fellow citizens and to lead them to an attempt to settle the dispute peacefully, but I wonder if they are also lawyers, if they actually do not see their excessive interest because there are no court costs. Is it considered legally determining that individual disputes are such as: the payment of the subscription of telecommunications services, communals and the like must first try to resolve the peace of mind because, contrary to these procedures, these proceedings are actually represented by lawyers who, at the time of the first action, actually put their costs and charges at the level of the debt itself. Of course, if the defendant can't pay at that time he's only objecting to delay everything, then the court dispute to power increases the cost more and more. Of course, if they went immediately to rest, surely the prosecutor would immediately get a debt likely divided into a few wars and thus the procedure and costs would be reduced further costs and, of course, the court would disburse. I could bring up a lot of other ideas right now, but every point is that we just have to, I can't tell the citizens, but I'm very good at informing them to go into the process of calming down, or citizens have to find their own interests. They'll never liven up to the story that this is the achievement of modern civilization if citizens don't find their interest in it or if we don't legally prescribe it to them as necessary. And speaking of civilizational reach just now, Mr. Kunst said that the sign of acceptance of this institute of calming, or law, is a sign of civilization's reach. And then I wonder from a time when our government, at the time of our government, had passed this law where did the civilization reach our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66481	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct the alleged distinguished colleagues who said that, among other things, the lawyers are the ones who are guilty of charging their expenses that are not going towards the procedure and that these proceedings are needlessly delayed. Well, it's not like that, dear colleague. Lawyers do their job by authority and protect the interests of the parties they represent. It would be incorrect to say that they are in the process itself, regardless of what procedure is being done by a litigator or a criminal, who are guilty of not going to a standstill or that the litigation does not end in a shorter period of time and, of course, in accordance with the law. I think it's necessary to correct this so that you don't leave that impression that actually the lawyers or the lawyers are wrong not to affirm themselves in their fullness of the peace institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66483	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66484	Thank you very much again. Well, I'll also agree with, Mr. Vice President, thank you, of course, introductory and State Secretary, dear colleagues. So, I'm going to say this introductively and actually agree with all those who have spoken about this bill proposal in terms of the quality of the regulation itself, so the legal text itself and the support of this legislative project. So, everyone who has been discussing the Law has absolutely accepted the Law, supported it, and I am doing it at the very beginning. Because I really think it's one quality law. By accepting a standstill, or a peace-making institute as a way of resolving disputes, regardless of what kind of dispute is involved, it is not only a political priority, but also the civilization achievement of every modern state. What is not sufficiently or sufficiently detailed so far has been mentioned, and I think these are the two key things in the law itself, which are primarily about the definition of the peace-making institute on the one hand and, on the other hand, the definition of the settlement as a consequence of the settlement process, i.e. what that settlement in a procedural legal, real sense means when it is achieved in the process of calming itself. Therefore, this Law defines reconciliation as any procedure, regardless of whether it is implemented in a court, an institution for peace or outside the institutions and the court, in which the parties seek to settle the dispute in agreement, with the help of one or more atoneers who assist or assist the parties in reaching a settlement, but it is important to stress without the power to impose a binding solution on them. Therefore, the basic characteristic of this procedure is not the imposition of a binding solution, but the basic characteristic of the consent of the will, therefore, the consent of the parties to this procedure, which should result in a quality settlement. The settlement is therefore the essence, it is the core of the standstill procedure and its fundamental characteristic that it is in this sense, when it is achieved, binding the parties, but not only that, it has the character of an executive document because by virtue of the executive clause, it can, of course, be implemented directly in terms of the exercise, so the exercise clause can be very quickly resolved all that was disputed in the executive procedure. On the other hand, I think it is necessary to highlight or point to the relationship of this Law with other laws that regulate this matter. In the opening statement of the Secretary of State, we had the opportunity to hear and I think it is necessary to stress that in fact, the crown law in terms of civil law proceedings is a law on litigation. We had the opportunity to hear, or quote, articles of the Law on the Procedural Procedure which, in a direct, indirect manner, also made a settlement, a plea settlement, or what is already in the framework of a litigation procedure is also indirectly considered an act of order. I would stress the need for this Law to be brought into force to comply with the Law on Prosecution. We have heard that everything has been made in terms of the quality of the amendment of the Law on Procedural Procedure, but I would stress the need that when it is changed, when it is referred to the Parliament procedure to be a comprehensive way of not taking place in segments, but I think that it is necessary that the Law on the Procedural Procedure be dealt with as such, as one major project within the framework of judicial reform and as regards the procedure within the civil right to get it as one whole law that we will, together with all those institutes that we have on the litigation process of course, process and this matter that they will not be in collapsed but will be complemented, and yet all together, will result in the fact that the Institute of Afirmation is in the best possible way possible and that it really results in what we want from the regulations that the afirmira in terms of reducing the number of objects and the quality of all those litigation of all those presumption when we can be fulfilled by means of all procedures. Furthermore, I would also say that, in addition to harmonisation, and this has been highlighted, with the acquis of the European Union, this Law also allows for further development and acceptance of settlement as a moderation, means ways of resolving disputes, but equal availability to the peace and citizens of the European Union and Croatian citizens. So this is also the quality of this Law, and it would also agree with all those who have discussed it in a way that this is not about some significant change to the basic law on calming except in the segment of the possibility of cross-border calming, so what we were obliged to comply with the legal property of the European Union, but essentially with the small changes in the institution of calming under this Law remained the same. Support for this law, I think that by adopting this Law, we will create better legal assumptions that the procedure of settlement is not only carried out under this Act, but that it results in a significant reduction in the number of litigation procedures and that, in terms of quality of resolution of these proceedings on the one hand, that the adoption of a new Law, the Law on the Procedural Procedure will therefore be amended and complemented by the Law on Parial Procedure, but also by the Law on Court Fees, that we will create all the preconditions for the establishment of the Institute of Peace in the Republic of Croatia as best possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66485	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66486	So you mention the settlement, of course, that it's the goal of calming down, but I'd like to particularly apostrophe, I think you'll agree, that we should also encourage a court settlement. So, what we've already quoted here is the provision of a law on litigation that obliges the judge to try to make peace. However, what I should be thinking of right now, please, Secretary of State, I need to correct a relic in the Rules of Procedure. We had a relic terrible that antiquity was counted as a solved object. So we did that in 2002, and right now we should be valorizing the judge's settlement as a resolved object, as a completely resolved case. He gets half the points for the solved case, like he didn't try very hard. He didn't write the verdict, he didn't write the argument. However, since our intensity is not that as much paper and reasoning as possible is written but that the subject should be resolved and that should be seriously considered as soon as possible. It's going to be one big incentive for the court not to say just formally you're going to get back together. No, but to make an additional effort precisely to reconcile the parties and to amend the Rules of Procedure, to valorise the judge as a completely and completely resolved case. More and more before we know that such a settlement has immediate executive power.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66487	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66488	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, when I mentioned a settlement within the meaning of this law, not the Law on the Procedural Procedure, I have spoken and I remain in it, I do not think you have denied me that the settlement is the essence of the settlement procedure, that is, the core of the procedure of calming down, it is being carried out precisely for the parties to reach a settlement. Because conducting a settlement without a deal is again in a sense delaying the procedure. We didn't end the case in a lawsuit, we didn't make a deal, so it's all back to the case again and again to the decision-making process. In that sense, the settlement in my opinion is essential, because its definition and quality definition is the essence of this law. Because this settlement that has been reached under this law has the power of an executive I.D. And what does that mean? You're very good to know what that means. This means when the parties agreed, when they made the text of the settlements, when we have a clause of enforcement that very quickly they reached obligations, they can carry out obligations made by the basis of the executive procedure. Without that, without a quality definition of the settlement itself, and it is quality defined in this law, there is actually no result. We can't then implement everything that we've done in the settlement process and the settlements are actually agreed by the parties. And the credentials or persons, whether legal or legal, are any natural persons involved in the procedure, so it is not a case of litigation, it is not a court, it is not a court, it is only a supporter, and these decisions are not binding on parties to achieve a consensual demonstration of the will between parties and that all of this is a matter to be passed in a settlement that is later carried out. And by that act, not only has the case been completed, but the dispute between the parties is definitely ended.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66489	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Honorable Damir Kontrec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66490	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I thank you for supporting the law, but I could not agree with the claim that nothing has happened since 2003. I remind you that since 2003, we have had an arbitration court at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce since the alternative ways of resolving disputes in Croatia. Today, with this alternative way, we have centres for calming in courts, therefore judicial peace, but we have centres for calming in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Association of Employers, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Insurance Office, the Croatian Peace Association, the Croatian Centre for Relaxation in Banking, as well as the Centre for Peace at the Croatian Bar Association. So one far-reaching diapazone was given the opportunity to carry out extrajudicial stillness. The results made today in numbers certainly cannot say that they are satisfactory. If 30, 40 items are solved annually at the Centre for Peace at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, then this is probably insufficient in the total number of pending cases in Croatia. In this regard, it is an appeal that Croatia develops a culture of dialogue and that disputes between parties are primarily resolved by extrajudicial settlement. The court order is only one option to and during the court proceedings are going into proceedings. The judge always remains the possibility that the case and not only the possibility but also the obligation to the CFSP to resolve the case peacefully. As regards the observations of the Legislative Committee concerning Article 2 here, it is not an emergency in Article 2 in order to make all information on a particular settlement procedure available to the public, but it is the urgency that all information on the settlement as regards the procedure be made available to the public. So in that sense, that provision is. The whole law uses the term atonement. I mean, in that sense, we're not giving it up for now. Is a better term stiller, I think it's less important now. As far as the deadlines are concerned, I stress volunteering and dissipating. If the parties agree that they will implement the settlement procedure within 3 months, why limit it to the law. The law only prescribes a deadline in case the parties do not agree with each other, and for such an agreement there should always be two parties, so the two parties that agree with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66491	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66492	The final proposal of the Peace Act was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 680. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Peace. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 101 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66493	Moving to point 5. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 681 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A businessman. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The businessman's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by attorney Anna Lovrin. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, the esteemed Damir Kontrec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship with the Final Proposal of the Law is before the Parliament. Namely, the Law on Lawyership is in line with the Council of Europe Directives 2009 allowing state lawyers from EU Member States to carry out the activities of a lawyer's profession and the conditions for cross-border provision of legal services in the Republic of Croatia. In the technical follow-up to the European Commission, it is proposed that the statement of Article 36(a) of this Act, the Law on Attorneyship, be made clear that a lawyer from an EU Member State who is not entered in the register of foreign lawyers under Article 36a(b) and (d) may carry out certain actions or freely provide legal services, freedom to provide services within the framework of the legal activity carried out and yet in accordance with Article 36c(1) and (2). Law of attorneyship. I note that the same rights will have Croatian lawyers in the Member States of the European Union when the Republic of Croatia enters the European Union. The Law on Lawyership, again in accordance with the laws of the Member States of the European Union, stipulates that a law firm other than as a public company can also be established as a limited liability company. However, the provisions of the Law on Attorneyship which speak of the liability of a lawyer for damages, which govern the liability of a law firm or any lawyer in society and society in general, should be aligned with the provisions on the liability of a society with limited liability and liability in a public company in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies. According to the proposal of this law, the minimum amount secured for each lawyer individually, but also by a lawyer in the joint law firm, i.e. a lawyer employed in a law firm, is 800,000 kuna. The liability of a law firm which would result from the provisions of the Company Act, so in the event where such liability exists, is the minimum amount of 9 million kuna in either case regardless of the number of cases covered by such insurance policy. I note that the obligation to provide a lawyer with responsibility is an obligation which, if the lawyer does not carry it out, constitutes a serious violation of the legal duty in accordance with the code and in that case, if the lawyer does not carry out his obligation to provide insurance and did not report such a policy to the Croatian bar of attorney in that case, it is a strict act which has the consequence of the exclusion from the Croatian bar of attorney. These amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship shall remove different interpretations of the provisions of the liability of law firms, i.e. the lawyer of members of the company for damages they would commit to the exercise of the attorneyship of third parties. Given that on committees we have had different thoughts on this responsibility of a law firm as a limited liability society, additional insurance is actually given to clients of such law firms. Thank you. Excuse me, we're also accepting amendments from MP Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66495	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Yeah. Representative Tomljanović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66496	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 113rd session held on 25 January 2011, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyership, with the final proposal for a law. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal of the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. The text of the final proposal provides proposals, objections to certain provisions in order to be considered by the applicant and, possibly, to its amendments, to the following: First, Article 1(1) of the amended Article 33, it is proposed to supplement the provision that it is responsible for damages, as regards liability for damages. In accordance with Article 3(3) of the amended paragraph 1 of Article 44, it is proposed to supplement the statement in order to show that it relates to damage, but which is caused by doing, but to the damage caused by any action or as a consequence of failure. At the same time, in the amended paragraph 4, an expression should be made, since it is not a conclusion or conclusion of an insurance policy, because the policy is only an instrument that proves that the insurance contract is concluded. In the amended paragraph 7, it is proposed to use the concept of contract conclusion in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Relations and to stand in the additional new paragraph 14 and to determine when that period begins. As regards the amended paragraph 10, it is estimated that it is an agreement, not an answer that needs to be amended. In relation to the amended paragraph 10, it is proposed to amend the provision in such a way as to unequivocally determine what is considered to be the case so that the basis of the difference in the amount of the minimum guaranteed amount of the lawyer compared to the lawyer’s company is then seen. Furthermore, the basis by which the same amount of the amounts secured is determined for each or any provided case is not visible. At the same time, there is no evidence of a sanction for a lawyer, so we are talking about a sanction for a lawyer or a law firm if a liability for damages does not occur. So, in those situations when it comes to and without a contract on liability for damages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66497	Thank you very much. The other committees? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. First of all, on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished counterpart Dinko Buric. Here you go, colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66498	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Justice is often more severe than injustice. Today is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship. The proposer argues that this legislative proposal harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. Nothing unusual, given the fact in which the negotiations with the European Union are held today by Croatia. However, this bill deserves special attention for a number of specific reasons. Among them is certainly one of the most important influence of the Croatian Attorney General on the overall state of the Croatian judiciary. In today's debate, I will look at only some of the main problems of the Croatian judiciary, which are directly related to the Croatian Attorney's Office. These are the long-term length of judicial proceedings, legal tariffs, corruption, and the strength of the judiciary and the judiciary with the centres of political power. When it comes to the length of court proceedings, Croatia is probably the only country in Europe in which court proceedings last for 10 years or more, and it is not rare to face procedures that last for 30 years or more. With its approximately 4.5 million inhabitants, Croatia is in a position to have about 1.5 million pending court disputes. It could therefore be concluded that in Croatia, on average, each family conducts a judicial procedure. In addition, at least 1/4 Croatian citizens for the length of court proceedings and do not experience a verdict in their proceedings. Among the main reasons for delaying court proceedings with inadequate organisation of the work of courts, the law on litigation and lack of competent and responsible judges is still inadequate, certainly both legal tariffs and corruption. The level and method of calculating the legal tariffs in Croatia determines an independent Croatian bar. It is organized as an interesting community to protect its members. Unfortunately, it cannot be compared in any way to the legal chambers in European democratic countries that are part of the judiciary. After the independence of the Croatian state as president of the Croatian Bar Association in 1992, the son of the first Croatian Finance Minister, renowned lawyer Marijan Hanžekovic, was elected. In 1994, the Croatian Parliament adopted for European opportunities a single law allowing the Croatian bar to determine on its own the level and method of calculating the legal fees, i.e. the tariff by allowing Croatian law offices to even have legal power. In other words, the Croatian law passed legislative powers on to an interesting Czech association. The Croatian bar unfortunately misused these powers to the limit, setting an absolute individual level of bar fees twice as high as German lawyers' fees, and the number of charges for such fees is not limited. This also provides for a special fee for each hearing and written submission to the court resulting in a direct conflict of interest between the lawyer and his party. In addition, the Croatian Chamber of Law's tariff system provided for the possibility of negotiating a percentage of the amount awarded, which makes the lawyer directly interested in the outcome of the court proceedings. The consequences of such a tariff system are a delay in court proceedings, because the lawyer has an interest in holding as many discussions as possible and handing over as many court submissions as possible because for each act he receives a special fee. Secondly, an enormous law-based robbery of Croatian citizens would be said of legal persons that I do not speak, with some of the lawyers truly becoming the richest Croatian citizens, without anyone pointing fingers at them as tycoons. Furthermore, the massive departure of judges to lawyers due to disproportionately high earnings in relation to judicial incomes and finally the possibility of agreeing on a percentage of the amount awarded also led to the lawyer's interest in the outcome of the trial and thus increased influence on judges. All of this resulted in the fact that lawyers in poor Croatia can earn an absolute amount of up to 10 times as much as their colleagues in rich Germany, and if the income difference and standard of citizens are taken, then citizens and legal persons in Croatia pay as much as 50 times the price of legal services as citizens and legal persons in Germany. The impoverished and robbed Croatian state has indeed become the real El Dorado for some lawyers in Croatia. This should bear in mind that the Croatian Bar is not part of the judiciary. In many ways, it has become an unscrupulous, interesting community with special status and special legislative powers that are difficult to find in any other country of the world. If we bear in mind the fact that individual elected lawyers can earn 10,000 euros and more only for access to a hearing that on average does not last more than half an hour, and that the judge has to work for months, then it is really hard to imagine that even a competent judge will remain in his profession. When it comes to corruption, it is in Croatia not only according to polls among citizens but also according to everything we have witnessed in recent months the most widespread in politics. Unfortunately, that and the top of the state government. Former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader has introduced very high standards both in European and global terms when it comes to the corruption of political leaders in a country. And he set such standards for those he chose for himself as his closest associates. He's not in Croatia today, we all know where he is right now. But his spirit still walks not only in the chambers of the Ban Courts but also in the chambers of many ministries, state-owned companies and societies, as well as certain parliamentary chambers. There's no beloved leader today, but there's a beloved duchess. Every day, almost incredible scenarios have been discovered that have robbed the money of Croatian citizens and have ruthlessly thrown into the private pockets of selected personnel. And they fall in line not only with the head of state-run companies but also with members of the top management of today's still ruling party and ministers from Sanader's government. They're filled with prison chambers of Remetinz like a stuffed cake, but that cake isn't just missing cream. He'll come at the end with or without a expensive purse. That bag lacks more file, and it is located in the form of individual selected members of the Croatian Bar Association. Because the corrupt Croatian octopus did not spare unfortunately not a single law order, in the first order of those regime lawyers who could not resist criminally calling the organisation that robbed Croatian citizens. Those lawyers who have so far had the uncut right so-called. the representation of state-owned companies such as HAC, HRT, HEP, HZ and others by charging incredible amounts. Because how do you explain the fact that these elected law offices in Croatia have been raised by state firms for half an hour and have made sure that such half-hour hearings are as much as possible. And these same state-owned companies are full of lawyers and those needed and useful, and even more of those unnecessary and unusable. It will be interesting to watch both USKOK and DORH Zagreb and according to the contracts of state firms with selected law offices and there will be great and interesting surprises that everything will be found under expensive carpets and in expensive furniture of richly decorated law offices. And finally, the state of justice and the attorney's office with the centers of political power. There's a saying that says "the money collapses and builds and does whatever it wants both justice and justice for a reason." In the Croatian public, it is quite widespread to believe that a mysteriously high positioning official is clear and clothes the Croatian judiciary with both the prosecution and the judiciary, as well as the attorney's office. His influence is almost mythical. Recently, we could hear about him being called even an instructor. This is a very mysterious person. For the time being, it's just that in the towers, there's a rumor that he's got hair and a beard like that. So much is the mystery of this person that I almost and do not believe in its existence or at least not in its influence if such a mythic person exists at all. Because who else in Croatia could believe that there is someone who could be prosecuted by elected lawyers, prosecutors, investigators, jurors or judges who can conduct what to investigate, who to prosecute and prosecute and what judgments to make. Who, even in Croatia, can even imagine that it is possible to influence a prominent law elite, especially one that, after having illegally burned the words of state firms, with the blessing of the current authority and politics, has the stomach through one of the members of the management of the former president of the Croatian Bar Association of Law, recently even declare that the concentration of power such as the prime minister has good. This is even true, but it is just as true that it is not good, although it is even very harmful for Croatian citizens and state-owned companies and the concentration of power such as the Croatian Bar. And who else in Croatia can even imagine that a state attorney, prosecutor or judge in this country cannot become anyone, or rarely anyone without the blessing of one already mentioned mysterious man from the ruling political circles. Who else in the state of Croatia may think that there is someone who is able to stop, or at least until further notice in the drawer to delay war crimes charges, for example. against the president of the SDSS, a party that is one of the most important coalition partners of the ruling HDZ, abolished and today-retired parliamentary representative of Mr Vojislav Stanimirovic, whose role is in the tragic fate of the Ovcara of liquidated Vukovar wounded people and today is subject to great public interest. Unfortunately, there is still no interest in those organs that should be interested in it first. Or against the recent mayor of Vukovar-Srijem County of Jovan Aydukovic, and also one of the top SDSS people who are witnessing war crimes against captured Croatian civilians on the agricultural economy near the town of Dalja. The charges exist, but they're in drawers. And Mr. Jovan Iduković not only did he not answer for what he was accused of, but he also became a lawyer and a prominent member of the Croatian Bar Association. And in front of his law firm in Vukovar, every day there are increasing and growing ranks of citizens, seeking his legal assistance, especially Croatian defenders who need such assistance the most these days, on charges and international warrants brought against them by Serbia. So if they do not receive any or insufficient assistance from the Croatian authorities, who can give them better legal assistance than anyone who knows them very well and they know him, and werewolves and Jovan Idukovic know each other very well. And who else in this country might even think that there is someone who is able to have such an impact on the highest judicial bodies, and even on the Supreme Court, that the same decision on a judgment can affect only one sentence from the previous verdict that the appeal was made, and those sentences that concern him in the case, leaving everything else innocently intact in order to make anything more credible and convincing. And it is especially unimaginable that such a person exists in Croatia. I believe a person like that doesn't have one, or maybe he does. However, these are all stories and speculations about courtship, prosecution and attorneys with centres of political power in Croatia, most likely pure conjectures, and ordinary political pranks. Finally, because of the reasons that were mentioned earlier, the HDSSB club will still support the draft Law on Attorneyship. If for no other reason, it is because of the precise harmonisation of the legal provisions governing the authorisation of lawyers from the Member States of the European Union to carry out certain actions within the framework of law enforcement activities in Croatia. However, they are lawyers from the European Union, e.g. from Germany, smaller dericosis than the prominent lawyers of the Croatian lawyer elite. And surely, at least for now, they are not under the tutorial stick of a mysterious person from the top of the ruling party's political life. If there is such a person, I am like the vast majority of Croatian citizens sure of one thing, that person is certainly not called Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66499	Thank you very much. Obviously we're going to need Sherlock Holmes at the end, but we have three applications for corrections. First of all, distinguished colleague Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in this burning exposé, a lot has been said that it is not related to the subject of amendments and additions to this law. But there are also inaccuracies, a lot of them, but I'm going to make it right, and that's that there are a million and 500 loose objects in Croatia today, which is not true. At the beginning of the judicial reform, there were a million and 900 unsolved cases, today there are 700 thousand, so that reduction is over 60%, of course not all of them not solved within a reasonable period of time, there are cases within 3 years. In addition, out of these 700 thousand cases are not all litigation, but also other proceedings, so one smaller number is litigation, and that should be said because this is simply false. I don't need... The justice of the countries of the European Union, because neither of them is the bright state, so Croatia is not the only country that has a lawsuit that lasts more than 10 years, with the length of the proceedings being tortured by the Luxembourg court. [[You don't understand.]] In addition, it is incorrect for the Croatian Bar of Law to establish tariffs on its own. It, on its tariffs, must be given the consent of the Ministry of Justice and these amendments to the law have been introduced in 2008, so it does not define it on its own. And it was also introduced by limiting, or limited number of actions in the process in relation to the individual case, just to prevent abuse and delay proceedings by lawyers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66501	Thank you. Dear counterpart Emil Tomljanovic, also a correction of the allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66502	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague, he certainly incorrectly said that the law on Croatia's legal chamber had been passed on to legislative powers. This is incorrect, and especially incorrect, everything he said in relation to lawyers, the Croatian Bar of Law and the way the bar is brought. Dear colleague Lovrin has now said that it is being taken, so regardless of the position or decision of the Croatian Bar Association, the legal tariffs are being adopted in agreement or with the approval of the Ministry of Justice, which was subject to an amendment to the law itself. However, for this correction of the incorrect quote, I also came forward because of the fact that a profession, an honorable profession in the Republic of Croatia, actually laid down trees and stones. These people are marked as dericotes, as wicked people, as people who are exclusively in the interest of money, for which they carry out their activities, their profession. An esteemed colleague, that's absolutely incorrect. I agree with you that every grain has the weeds, as in any other profession, but the attorneyship as an occupation, as a profession certainly does not deserve the qualifications that you have presented in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66503	Thank you. A fellow Buric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's this about?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66504	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 209. My dear colleague was talking about something I didn't say, I didn't generalize state colleague Tomljanovic's lawyers. There are certainly honest people among them. But if you were listening well, I was talking about a lawyer's elite, about the elected, elected and chosen, who, even with the agreement of the Ministry of Justice, were yelling at not only the citizens, but also state-owned companies for $175,000 for half an hour of participation at the hearing. Discard it, and then you can say I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66505	My colleague, we haven't fixed anything here regarding the Rules of Procedure, nor will we, colleague Tomljanović, if there is no name or last name for the elite either. Anyone can think about what's going on. You don't need to generalize things, I know what you want to intervene. Everything should have its name and name, and if someone raised 170 grand in half an hour, then there's an address, send it, someone has to perform, say their opinion, attitude, etc. My colleague Tomljanović, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66506	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, a respected colleague hurt the Rules of Procedure because I corrected his incorrect claim. He said that a legislative power has been passed on to the Croatian bar of attorneys in his presentation. This is a colleague incorrectly and in that sense you have violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure itself. So, all the things you said about law enforcement as a profession, I said every grain has a weed in it, but you've generalized it. You guys, what you're saying almost brought down the whole profession, I've recorded your expression that you used, called dericoces. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66507	Thank you. Take it easy. And we have a correction, dear colleague of Mile Horvat. Here's my colleague Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66508	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, I would like to correct my colleague Buric's quote, in which he has again, on countless occasions, and in every situation, both the nicknames and the labels and qualifications of the president of my party, Dr. Stanimirovic called him a war criminal. It is not true that a criminal application has been filed against him, and at least it is true that it is held in some dark drawer in some kind of political emergency. The basic rule of law says do not judex act as actors – therefore there is no guilt of the responsible person without a lawsuit. That's the basic thing, and we, as legalists, should stick to it. Therefore, you cannot convince us here that Mr. Stanimirovic is a war criminal because there has been no criminal charges filed in this regard against him. And I ask you not to put it in the context of what you said in the context of this topic, and at least in the context of the name of a man you've apostropheeded here from the bar twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66509	But please say where is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66510	Article 209 was injured because our esteemed representative Horvat is talking about something I didn't say. Nor did I say he was a war criminal, but the fact is that both him and Mr. Aydukovic have been filed with the state's attorney's office, who is still standing in drawers. Both against Mr. Stanimirovic and against Mr. Aydukovic. And they weren't declared war criminals or prosecuted just because of the Abolition Act. When it's lifted, I'm not sure it'll be.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66511	Let's not do this, 'cause you're a very good expressionist because this last sentence of yours is the confirmation of the one before the thesis we've been correcting. I don't think we should share labels in this assembly, not particularly the labels of criminals and criminals. Let those services do it. We are to make this work clear and transparent regulations and regulations. It is up to the SDP club and the esteemed colleague, Josip Leko. Here you go, colleague Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Government, the promoter, colleagues and fellow MPs. After this debate and the correction of incorrect allegations, I would kind of go back to the essence of things, and I would like to comment on this in a sentence that, perhaps two centuries ago, I don't know exactly, said one smart man. He said that democracy without power is powerless, but power without democracy is tyranny. Since the attorney's office is a very important social service in democracy, in the protection of the rule of law and the rule of law, let's see how this law works at 2 levels. Does it ensure, as I say, the successful work of this service in protecting citizens' rights against courts, administrations, etc., and whether the citizens of these professions are protected from their will or failure. If we give positive answers then this law should be supported because it helps to establish simply more democracy in Croatian society. So there are two levels to observe this law, I've already told you about one. Is ensuring that all lawyers under this law are even. So, before the law and by this law, even. I wish we had an answer at the time of the debate on that question. Here's why, right in the middle of the problem, the middle of things. In fact, the proposal for this law in Article 3 refers to the insurance of cases where lawyers in their business and business do harm to the client. We have two solutions here. One solution is that for a secure case, I stress a secure case, when a lawyer works, acts and the case is made, the case happens, and the lawyer is in the joint law office providing the case with 800 thousand kuna. So that's the lowest amount on which he can secure a secure case. If a lawyer works in a limited-responsibility society, then the insurance case is 9 million kuna for a lawyer. So it's about the same job. No lawyers from society with limited liability of other cases and other representations shall work. They're the same representations as a lawyer when he's in a joint law firm, but the minimum amount of insurance is at 800,000 kuna. I am interested in valid reasons whether this is favoring a lawyer so that clients with higher amounts of the value of the dispute are instructed in a limited liability society, so is this law favored by an organisation of a lawyer in a limited liability society? If it isn't, then to us, then the citizens need to know why it isn't. What's the motive to secure the case differently secures. I think that is very important so that we can vote very responsibly on the proposal and be responsible to the citizens. So we keep reading and interpreting for a few reasons this article, that amendment, that we need to know what's a more favourable thing for citizens, legal persons, clients, lawyers. What message are we sending? Why are we doing this? When it comes to allowing lawyers from European Union countries to appear in the Croatian legal area, I should say, before courts, administrations etc. and represent clients from both Croatia and the European Union, there is no, I have reviewed the entire law, I have no answer here whether they are obliged to provide themselves with 800 thousand kuna in the Croatian Insurance Society, because it is that the damage can be charged in their country. So these three questions, not because of me, not because of the SDP Club, but because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, should be answered. It is doubtless that the same article states, if lawyers are not insured, and they are organised in a limited liability society, they respond in solidarity, but now I no longer know whether it is only for damage or for all obligations. It says here in the Law of Obligations. In other words, the amount at which 9 million can be secured may be for other things, because society does not have to be responsible only for the damages caused from business, representation, it can have other responsibilities, it also works on the market. Therefore, it is very important that we get answers to these questions, I repeat, not to us in the Parliament, but to the citizens and clients, for whom we adopt this Law. And all we've heard is perhaps the problem of the Croatian judiciary but it's not just this law. The SDP Club expects that at least in the final word, the Proposer will answer precisely the questions I asked on behalf of the Club, and it will depend on whether we vote for this Amendment and the addition of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66513	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of Lecko's. Dear colleague Danica Hursa and exhibiting on behalf of the HNS Club HSU, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that the HNS Club will support the draft Law on Attorneyship with the Final Proposal of the Law, namely the harmonisation of the legal property of the European Union with the legal regulation of our country. This is a very short draft law and is regulated in four articles, and these amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship are aligned with provisions, which determine the establishment of law firms as limited liability companies with the provisions of this Act, which introduce the specific responsibility of members of law firms established as limited liability companies. This is, of course, further in line with the Company Act and will remove different interpretations of the provisions of this Act in practice. And in the opening statement of the Secretary of State, we heard that by amending and supplementing the law on attorneyship, we would allow lawyers from the Member States of the European Union not to carry out the activities of the lawyer profession as well as the conditions for cross-border provision of legal services in the Republic of Croatia after its accession to the European Union. My colleague Lovrin has done more than 4 amendments to 2 of this Act and, as I said at the very beginning, the HNS HSU Club will support the proposal for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66515	Thank you very much, colleague. It's time for a distinguished colleague, Ana Lovrin, and the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Attorneyship, as we have heard, although this Law is in line with the legal property of the European Union to the previous amendments and the last of 2009, here is the need for further clarifications or full installation of the acquis, which primarily refers to the provision of services by foreign lawyers in the Republic of Croatia to indicate that they are obliged to provide and legal services in relation to which services and as regards the provisions of the already applicable Law, even when they are not registered in the directory of foreign lawyers in the Republic of Croatia. This is one part of the harmonisation and the other part of these amendments, which are actually about clarification and a more detailed solution to the issue of liability insurance for damage that a lawyer could do to third parties, in particular for a clearer clarification of that insurance when it comes to law firms, when they are organised as a public company, or when they are organised as a limited liability society. I believe that these changes are actually achieved by equating this responsibility, namely, and according to the Law on Commercial Companies, members of a public company correspond in solidarity with the obligations of the company, however, with a company established as a limited liability company is responsible for its obligations for the company, and the members of the company do not personally respond. This law, as a lex specialis in relation to the Law on Commercial Companies, states that, in relation to law firms, this is also true except in one case, which is the case in Article 44(4), which states what happens in the event that a limited liability law firm does not have a final insurance contract at a minimum amount of 9 million kuna, in which case the members of the company shall personally respond, means they shall be equated with liability in a public company. Of course, this question remains asked by fellow Leko, but it's probably also explained within the bar. In fact, the question arises that in the case of an organisation of a law firm as a limited liability society, in fact, the party to which damage has been done has coverage, insurance at 9 million kuna. In the event that the contract is not completed or in the case of a public company, the parties remain that when they exhausted the guaranteed amount of 800,000 kuna to correspond to the personal lawyer of a member of the company. Well, now it's a matter of what and how and if there's a party to settle down from. In some cases, the party to a limited liability law firm would be in a more favourable position. But here, first of all, it is a classic case of responsibility for damages by general rules. So, the problem is to determine the occurrence of damage. I think these secured sums are actually in practice very, very rarely used and that the parties that are damaged by the handling of the lawyer, and there is, because as we have said not generally that all lawyers are thieves, but that in every grain there are dolls, so there are lawyers who unwittingly carry out their legal duty, in that case when the party is damaged it is mostly unskilled and it is mostly very difficult to come to some other lawyer taking over the case against his colleague from the dam to determine the occurrence of the damage. So, I don't know if the ministry or the bar have data, but I think these shelves are very rarely used and that very rarely the party settled out of these secured amounts. But we certainly support the amendments to this law, because they make this insurance clearer, further shifts are to protect the parties from liability for the damages of lawyers, as well as this cross-border provision of services. So we have asked one question and on committees where we felt this too broad permission that foreign lawyers, regardless of not enrolling in the directory of foreign lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, have the right to provide services. First of all, we were thinking about protecting the parties who provide the service, but it is from the bar that they have nothing against it because the principle of reciprocity is also valid, and so is our lawyer, then has the right to provide services in EU countries without being registered. And that's what we got an exact and explicit answer. And I have to say that these several nomotechnical amendments have, in fact, come from the debate that was conducted on both the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, so these discussions are that they might be carried out no-technically then formed in these few amendments that correct the text of the law. In the end, I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66517	Thank you very much. And the last registered club, the HSS club and fellow representative Stanko Grčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66518	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. And the HSS club will support the bill. Here's what we're gonna do to explain why. In accordance with EU law, the Law on Attorneyship prescribed that a law firm other than as a public company could also be established as a limited liability company. However, the provisions of this law governing the liability of a law firm established as a limited liability company do not comply with the other provisions of this law relating to law firms. Provisions on compulsory insurance against the responsibility of lawyers and law firms are not fully supplemented by the relevant provisions on the liability of law firms. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship shall be aligned with the provisions governing law firms as well as companies with limited liability to the provisions of this law which introduce the specific responsibility of members of law firms established as limited liability companies. These amendments and additions to the law will bring the provisions of the Law on Attorneyship with the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies and will remove different interpretations of the provisions of this law in practice. Furthermore, amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship have been made to the Croatian Attorney General's Office in the EU and this law is in line with EU directives allowing lawyers from EU Member States to carry out activities of law enforcement professions as well as in the conditions of cross-border provision of legal services in the Republic of Croatia following its accession to the EU, and everything within the framework of negotiations with the EU is particularly thought of in Chapter 3. Right of dispatch and freedom to provide services. This law proposes that the statement referred to in Article 36 of the Law be made in a way that is precise to point out that a lawyer from an EU Member State who is not entered in the register of foreign lawyers pursuant to Article 36a, b and d of this law may carry out certain actions in the context of the conduct of a lawyer’s activity in accordance with the provisions of Article 36(1) and (2) of this Law. And here are just a few examples of which we will point out, first of all, to Article 33, where it is said that the Law on Attorneyship, which prescribes the responsibility of law firms for legal aid granted to parties and the responsibility of members of law firms for the obligations of companies, which has not been fully governed by the current law, as well as Article 36(e) of Article 36(1). In the light of the recommendations made by the European Commission, the law on attorneyship in accordance with Article 36(1) of the Law further clarifys this by stressing the freedom to provide services in certain actions carried out by a lawyer from a Member State of the European Union. This law makes it clear that any lawyer, i.e. any lawyer in the joint attorney's office, as well as the employees of a law firm, must ensure responsibility for the damage that a lawyer may commit through a third law enforcement. The obligation of a lawyer or a law firm as well as an insurance undertaking shall also be prescribed to notify the chamber of the completed insurance contract as well as the changes made within 8 days. This article also provides for the obligation to provide a limited liability company with a minimum amount of 9 million kuna in the event of a secured case, without restrictions on the number of cases secured. Paragraph 14 states that if a limited liability company does not have a final insurance contract at a minimum amount of 9 million kuna, the members of the company shall be in full compliance with the obligations of the company up to the minimum amount of insurance prescribed for that company. Given the amendments already made by counterpart Lovrin and all of this said and highlighted in the debate, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66519	Thank you very much. This is what we ended up discussing in clubs because there are no other applications. We are moving on to an individual debate, and the first one has been signed up by a distinguished colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66520	As the Law on Lawyership, the Law on Courts, therefore, and similar laws which are very specific and which give certain rights, of course and duties to that profession, should first and foremost be seen from the point of view of the protection of citizens, and therefore these rights and certain privileges exist, do not act alone but primarily for the sake of citizens. It should be noted that in the former system it was the attorney's office that was an oasis of freedom, however, concerns the fact that in free Croatia individual lawyers are afraid to represent certain clients. It is one phenomenon that can also be sanctioned within the profession itself, but it is one phenomenon that is spread in Croatia and that concerns about a certain political climate, that is, certain political powers in a particular area, and that is something that the Government and the government must take care of because it is obviously a wider problem. Furthermore, there is one problem that counterpart Leko spoke of on behalf of the SDP club. It cannot and must not happen that a good Law on Attorneyship of Certain Amendments which would lead to the separation of certain lawyers and favoured them, or burden certain lawyers depending on what form of association they are in, whether they are independent lawyers or those who are joined in certain forms as well as enables the Law on Attorneyship. A serious danger arises precisely from this mandatory insurance provision which then imposes compulsory insurance on every lawyer, and especially again the responsibilities of a law firm. It should be said that every responsibility is borne by a single lawyer and that is not disputed. But the double obligation of an insurance case doesn't benefit anyone, not only does it hurt a single lawyer, it doesn't benefit the parties, it just benefits the insurance companies. And we've already had cases of favouring financial institutions of any kind and for what reason. Some of the dilemmas opened in this direction and on individual committees we received a different interpretation from what is said in the provision of Article 13. So the interpretation is different, for such concerns there is no, but the saying of the norm is perfectly clear, and it requires no interpretation, not linguistic, not telelogical, not anything else. And so if the intensity is different then it certainly needs to be on that trail to correct this provision. However, the most controversial provision is Article 2. First of all, we are in the amendments to the Law on Attorneyship which we have adapted to the standards of the European Union and our duties, of course, and also the obligations in this sense and the possibilities in fact that our lawyers are also freely represented in the countries of the European Union and that foreign lawyers, i.e. lawyers of the European Union countries can represent themselves freely in Croatia. You see, when Slovenia adapted its legislation in this sense, it made one commitment, that these lawyers must know the Slovenian language. We didn't ask for it, which is why we're asking the question right now. But it was not enough for us, but now we are going to further changes that Slovenians do not have, to represent Croatian citizens or Croatian companies of people who cannot be legitimateized in front of our judicial bodies. As some EU lawyer who will come freely under this provision will be legitimately legitimate, it does not have to be entered in the register of foreign lawyers at the Croatian bar. Which will make him legitimate, then, if ad hoc to the judge, remains perfectly unclear. In the end, I don't care about these foreign lawyers, nor the unfair competition created by it, but above all, the protection of citizens, opens this serious possibility, and in writing because in the European Union and in the Anglo-Saxon countries, other forms of legal assistance beyond the attorney's office are possible, as our Law of Law forbids it in its own words, because everything else is treated as a hoax, quite justifiable and it is a criminal offence. All in client protection. As the state protects its citizens from the superintendents, so with the same right and attention it has the right and the duty and what it does, to protect them from nadirism. Any misunderstandings that might have been corrected, which may have caused a burden or some major administrative obstacle, should have been removed in a different way, not by acquittal of lawyers or by enrolment of these foreigners led to the Bar of Lawyers. And it's just not good, and all in protection I say is the rights and interests of our citizens. I'm really looking for an answer here in which way these lawyers who are, who are going to be legitimate, who say to themselves that lawyers are going to legitimize. You know when someone logs in to the DA's office's register exactly has to mark, so not only their headquarters but also the area where it works, and then it goes to municipal courts, county courts of that area. Of course, when representing outside that area, it brings power of attorney and has its own seal. How will these lawyers do this, or I, knowing such a situation, that we will have before the court those who will not be able to, who cannot represent clients in their home countries before the court. They can do some kind of legal aid, but they can't go to court unless they're registered in the Chamber. And for what? I'm looking for an explanation as to what kind of obstacle it is that foreign lawyers don't want to be removed or removed from their obligation to enlist foreign lawyers in the directory of foreign lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66521	Thank you very much. We've got two replications. Dear colleague Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66522	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, a colleague of Antičević Marinović, you encouraged me to discuss the risk insurance damage, possibly the damage caused. I mean, I think you've kind of discussed it like it's pretty hard and hard. I only want to pull one parallel with the doctors. This is about compulsory insurance of the damage caused, possible damages in that part, and doctors are also in a position to ensure the risks of professional responsibility. And mostly large majority voluntarily. This is not mandatory for the reason that certain law offices are specialised in order to immediately cause some trouble for these doctors to be prosecuted. You understand? It's working here, so I don't see any big problem for lawyers with the fact that legal fees and incomes are far greater than doctors who do equally hard work and responsible work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66523	And colleague Tomljanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's very short. I'd like to rephrase to an esteemed colleague in the part where she mentioned power of attorney or attorney. I mean, that's also a notorious fact. A lawyer must always have the power of attorney to represent someone. It represents the interests of the party and, regardless of whether it was a natural or legal person, it must have power of attorney in order to be able to approach the court at all and to take appropriate legal actions in this process. In this second part, however, when it comes to the possibility of foreign lawyers joining the Croatian judiciary or Croatian courts. Absolutely, I should be supported by the solution that without knowledge of Croatian language there is no access to the Croatian court in terms of the principle that in Croatian courts there is, of course, an official Croatian language. So I can't even assume that someone who doesn't read or speak Croatian comes to the Croatian court and defends the interests of a party who must communicate there with both witnesses and judges and with all other people who participate in the proceedings. And I think there's something about Croatian language that has to be something that no matter what lawyer it was, even if he was enrolled in a foreign law assembly. But if he wants to join the Croatian court, representing the interests of the parties in Croatian courts is something without which absolutely he would not, in the end line in an appropriate way or be able to do his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66525	Thank you very much. We're moving on with an individual discussion. I'm a colleague of Ivo Grbić's. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66526	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. The Law on Lawyership also complies with the provisions of the Commercial Society Act. The law on attorneyship provides that a law firm can be established as a public company and as a limited liability company. The provisions governing the liability of law firms are not governed by the liability of law firms established as limited liability companies. Therefore, these amendments introduce the specific responsibility of members of law firms established as limited liability companies. The proposal further regulates the duties of a lawyer to ensure liability for damages, prescribes the minimum amount secured for each lawyer as well as for companies established as a limited liability society. I believe that the proposed amendments are of paramount importance that the same afirms the responsibility of law firms for legal assistance provided to parties as well as the responsibility of members of law firms for the obligations of society. For this reason, I will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66527	Thank you very much. Here is the time for individual applications to expire, and the last application is by a distinguished colleague, Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66528	Thank you very much, Vice President, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. This is another law today where there is no room for too much politics, but rather a law that must primarily contribute to citizens, parties who use the services of law offices in such a way that it is necessary to protect the parties from lawyers' offices and lawyers who are professionally and consciously not doing their job or who, in a certain way, delaying the party's proceedings, lead to costs which may not be necessary in such proceedings. All that is said through the nomotechnical amendments I accept, and all that is set as can be and should be maximumly clarified by this Law, so here is the time that we have through the amendments, but perhaps through the clarifications of the Secretary of State we see whether what is proposed by both Mrs Anticevic and by Mr Tomljanović and Mrs Lovrin what we heard in the debate really our citizens, the parties in the process will understand whether this Law will understand whether what has been done is in line with the legal property of the European Union it is clear to us, compliance with the Law on Commercial Society and it is clear to us. And what may remain may be disputed is whether when a lawyer's office arrives, it is necessary to know whether it is a limited liability society or a public company. We can't give it to the parties on a mission to know. However, what is the way in which parties are protected in the process and the protection of parties by law offices and what are the rights of parties to know that. And through further clarifications, although there is an existing law, although these are amendments and additions that are in line with the Law on Trade Society may need to be further clarified, whether it is really possible for the party to collect as much damage as it can be done in the process, which means what Mrs Anticevic was saying, which means whether all the lawyers and lawyers under this bill are even, we believe and think that the time has come for all of this to be clearly interpreted, rather than for some time that we are still bringing additional supplements and amendments before us, and we may now have a moment to do so in this process. What's quite clear under this law is why he was brought here. It's a harmonisation, it's very short, and this all the clarifications that came through the debate here, maybe here's the final word of the Secretary of State to explain a little bit, and by itself, the law is acceptable and I accept it as an agent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66529	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one replication report, colleague Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66530	Thank you, Vice President. So here's my colleague Salapic talking about the equality of law firms, I would refer here to one question I asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was read, where I asked the Government to give me an explanation of how much the Government of Croatia, then the individual ministries, companies owned or partly owned by the state paid to individual lawyers, and which, that is, what law offices and law firms for individual services. I received one general response to how much the state paid for these jobs, so it says 22 million kuna was paid in 2005, in 2006. Seventy-seven million kunas, 2007 27 million kuna, 2008. 73 million kuna, 2009. 79 million kuna and until 30 November 2010. 49 and a half million kuna. I was interested in this response where, and I did not get that response from the government, which is why the government spoke of by my colleague Buric before that on behalf of the club, secreted and did not give an answer to the notion of who has the privilege of gnawing millions to represent the government and its companies,... This battle against corruption that the government has so much to say about with Jadranka Kosor. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66531	Now, my colleague Habek, I believe that neither those questions nor my colleague Salapic can or should answer that question. Because if the government isn't to your answer or you're not satisfied with her answer, then you have to write back to them, and here's the secretary of state, maybe you can also part of it and he says, but anyway you should... One brief discussion, let's take it that way, so I don't know if my colleague Salapic needs something to answer. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66532	I said this is a bill where there is no room for politics, but this time I didn't say anything about it, nor did I say one word in my proposals and comments of this law that my colleague might in this way relate to my debate. Well, it would be good to pick up individually, and then in an individual debate to make a contribution to this law, and politics in these laws is no place.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66533	Okay. I, I mean, that's how I explained it, but here's the final call from Secretary of State Damir Kontrec. Well, here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66534	Well, here's to the brief law, I'm going to be long now, so I'm going to answer all these questions, of course, regarding the law itself. With regard to Article 36c, paragraph 1 where lawyers from Member States of the European Union who are not entered in the register of lawyers are allowed to carry out certain activities in the course of their activities, this is referred to in Article 36c paragraph 1 and Article 2 of the Law, and paragraph 36(1) says that a lawyer may provide advice on the law of his country of origin, on the law of the European Union, on international law, on the law of the Republic of Croatia. Paragraph 2 shall act together with a lawyer who has the right in the Republic of Croatia to carry out a legal activity under the name of a lawyer in the Republic of Croatia in respect of the representation of parties before courts in the Republic of Croatia. So this thing is protected that it must be in collaboration with the Croatian lawyer. In this provision, the Croatian bar of attorneys had no objections, they even agreed to it. So I don't think there's any incentive to nadrising, because that's where all the shop goes through and in cooperation with our lawyer. As regards liability for damages and liability insurance, we have so far had in Article 27, and we still have a provision, paragraph 3. to a law firm in an appropriate manner the Law on Commercial Companies applies. We have so far had the opportunity for lawyers to carry out activities within a law firm only as public companies. This Regulation shall enter into The company's company law is prescribed that members of the public company are accountable for the company's obligations, all of which, therefore, also the obligation to compensate for damages, but also all other obligations, personally solidarity and unlimited by their entire assets. Now, as a possibility of joining a lawyer, a limited-responsibility society is being introduced. In the case of a limited liability company, Article 10 shall again apply. The law on trading societies says that it corresponds to limited property of society. It is precisely because it would not have happened that if lawyers had joined a limited liability society, that it would have been the responsibility of society to the level of the company's core capital, and you know how much it could be, is prescribed, can be different, but this insurance obligation is prescribed. In accordance with Article 1061(1) and (2) of the Law on Mandatory Relations, a third party is responsible for the damage suffered by an employee in work or in relation to work by a third party by an employer, where the worker worked at the time of the damage, unless it proves that there were reasons to exclude the responsibility of the employees. In this case, if we have a public company or a limited liability company, then the lawyers are actually employees of that company, including the employer in this case. With respect to the level of insurance, every lawyer, he was an independent lawyer, a lawyer in the joint office, a lawyer in a public trading company or a lawyer in a limited liability company, was secured at an altitude of up to 800,000 kuna, without an amendment which, by case, we did, but without a limited number of cases. We accepted the amendment. So no limit on the number of cases. Therefore, if it is in a limited liability company and if it would be the responsibility of the company as such for that damage, the insurance of the company for liabilities to third parties is now prescribed, and for the sake of damage caused by the employee of the company. Here is an explanation, and these sums are actually, the heights of insurancecommunicated with the Croatian Bar and their insurance that did so. Thus, by similar principles such as liability insurance for other activities. I think I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66535	Thank you very much. There is no correction, therefore there are conditions to conclude this point, and we will vote when conditions are put in place again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66536	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Attorneyship, the emergency was procedure, P.Z.E. No. 681. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by attorney Anna Lovrin. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 78 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 21 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66537	And we move on to point six. Final proposals of the Law amending the Law on the execution of prison sentences, emergency proceedings, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 683. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In establishing the agenda, we accepted the proposal to discuss the urgent procedure of this law. According to the Rules of Procedure, we know that this process combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. So far, the amendment has been submitted by attorney Ana Lovrin. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. In front of the applicant on behalf of the applicant here is Secretary of State Tatjana Vučetic. Does he want an opening? Here you go, secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66538	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed MPs and MPs before you are one small amendment to the law, but very important. The law on the execution of a prison sentence in its Article 174 provides for the establishment of companies from part of the economic units of the penitentiary. In accordance with that article, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established 2 companies from the part of the economic unit in Lipovica, Lipovica d.o.o. at its session held on 8 August 2002. Povaca and Požega Penalty Company Orlja d.o.o. in Pozega. The management of each of those companies consisted of 3 members, one of whom is the administrator of the Penalty in Lipovica, i.e. Popovaca, or the Penalty in Požega. The Supervisory Board of each of those companies has 5 members, one of whom is a representative of the Working Council of Society, one of the officials of the penitentiary while other officials of the Ministry of Justice. Unlike those 2 companies, the other companies owned or owned by the Republic of Croatia are the ministries responsible for the business of the economy. Therefore, the adoption of this law is a premise for ensuring the equal status of companies in Lipovica d.o.o. from Popovače and Orljav d.o.o. from Požega, which also has other companies and will allow the exercise of a public tender for the selection of members of supervisory, or management boards of companies and the selection of professionals in the company bodies responsible for the operation of the company. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the execution of a prison sentence shall ensure the establishment and operation of the companies Lipovica d.o.o. from Popovače and Orljav d.o.o. in Pozega under the authority of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, as is the case with other companies of trade, exclusively or predominantly owned by the Republic of Croatia and the exercise of a public tender for the selection of members of the Supervisory Board and members of the administration, which will enable the selection of professionals for the management and operation of the company. And finally, I would just like to say that the motioner accepts the amendment of the esteemed representative, Anne Lovrin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66539	Thank you very much. We received a report from the board's meeting in writing. Do the representatives want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a fellow representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Now we have a very short amendment to the Penal Code which, when it was passed and those significant changes that took place in 2003 for the convict, when we practically introduced the judication of the execution of a prison sentence, when the convict was finally no longer in the hands of the administrative authority, but here he was given the opportunity to complain and in that penal institution whether it was about detention, prison or in the penitentiary to appeal to the judge. Unfortunately, we must also conclude that the judge still does not have his role or performs the fullness of the task that he has been given by law. Two are objective reasons for that. First of all, what is the pretraction of prison and the extent that it has in its domain and jurisdiction almost surpasses one man’s physical and mental abilities. Of course, there should be a lot more judges to execute because such a large number raises the question of an existing purpose that is basically incorporated by law. However, the question is also raised in general before I go to these two amendments specifically, given that this is a final draft of the law and that something is said in general, but which is certainly related then and to concrete changes. Conviction, and when a man is convicted, is an event in each individual case for an individual, but also for a country when it is not one national celebration and joy. However, what is happening in practice with us? So, instead of condemning them, they are created because, as is the law, the existing law, and the amendments should make it even more firm, to create new obligations for power towards that person without ending the act of condemnation. This, however, was reduced to a people's joy, and in particular in specific cases when it was both more and more and more when it came to people who were supernaturally worshiped, when they were absolute tyrants, and then one revenge of the peoples of which, of course, the media is all involved in this one public lynch and this final condemnation is perceived as a national catharsis. Which is quite the opposite, even the purpose of punishment. And I say, the more a person was worshipped, the more a desire for a conviction, and I don't even care what conditions the punishment would be. The government in this regard is very responsible to promote a cult of responsibility, not a cult of low passions, to justify everything that she has failed to do so that these things do not happen. And if we agree on that claim that the conviction did not end obligations towards such a person in terms of trial, the imposition of certain sanctions, especially prison sentences, but that new ones were created. Since yesterday, we have been discussing many prisons, including as far as this matter is concerned, not only this Final Bill amending the law on the execution of prison sentences, but yesterday we discussed such a law on the prohibition of torture and inhumane conduct in prisons and prisons. And on this occasion, it should be noted that the conditions in which the prison is executed, in our penitentiary, and even in custody, are inhumane prisons. That's what the Attorney General is talking about. The occupier is talking about how big complaints are, not just standards that talk about square meters that must be secured for every prisoner in order for any meaningful resociation to be possible also speaks of inadequate health care, which is precisely due to overcrowding, which when he wrote on average 160, now close to 200%, which is an alarming situation and a serious security problem, but is talking about a broken labour right. In Croatia, however, forced labour is prohibited, but misreading to reach valuable economic facilities and businesses that have developed within our penitentiary as a systematic part of therapy, today it is rare that in our prisons and penitentiary convicts do, you can imagine what it is to this convict and how society can expect his improvement after 40 years of maximum prison sentence, which has not worked, what kind of person it can be that got out of prison. Therefore, the right to work for a convict must be as a guarantee of his fundamental right to rehab, according to the people involved in professional treatment. Everything is in vain if they are denied the right to work. So yesterday we passed such a law which also has this obligation to work, in accordance with all European standards and conventions and our obligations, and what we are... now, by the final proposal of the Law amending the Penal Code, we are erasing paragraph 3 and 4 which has created an obligation for these companies to hire prisoners and to assist the prison system that is under collapse. And these companies and Lipovica and Orlja are not self-involved gourds, are not founded by the state itself through the Ministry of Economy, nor the Minister of Popijac, who now wants to have these two companies in his domain and we have nothing against it, but can't deprive these fundamental obligations. When we found therefore the economic unit of Orljav and Lipovic, which were within the prison, when all the prisoners worked there, however, there were certain irregularities, whether these were certain abuses of those who managed it, it was difficult and to reach out but certain irregularities were and to improve their activity and business they were separated from the prison system in the most important sense and they formed societies with limited responsibility but with obligations to the prison system and prisoners. These were successful companies that did business on the foreign market and Lipovica that manufactures radiators and eagles with their clothes and famous men's shirts above all. The question arises why these two companies are in a difficult situation, it just says here they are in difficulty. Did they deal with FIMI media, who they were dealing with, and why successful businesses got into difficulties. It's not because of the prisoner's work, because the prisoners and those who worked in it, both the prisoners and the prison administration created these successful companies. Whoever ruined these companies, this is a fundamental issue here, and not paragraph 3 and 4 is deleted, and it figures with the first article, see how the government is fighting corruption, now it will be elected on the basis of a public tender and a proposal from the Minister, members of the Supervisory Board, of course we are asking. But the question here is basically why these companies failed, they got into these difficulties, and there's no answer. Nor can they for two reasons, first of all it is not moral and it is not fair that those companies that have grown up from the prison system are now turning their backs on that same system and deprive themselves of these obligations. That's one thing. And another thing in this system when we have a collapse of the penal system. Our pension system has collapsed primarily because it is a poorly-run criminal policy, a criminal policy in Croatia. Criminal legislation today, here we expect these changes that have been happening for 7, 8 years, and when they happen in the best sense, they can happen on the trail of that novel that we brought in 2003 and when the opposition was exclusively against that Law, they were very dehementous against the new one. And even diphasing European voice experts, and now you see you can't put that novel together without that expert. I'm talking about Professor Novoselc. It is a shame that there has also been some kind of intercateral group and a crowd that has attacked a man of European reputation. And whose initiative? We all know that, and now you don't know how to make a law without Professor Novoselc. Now, we expect these changes to take place in this sense in order to get out of criminal law what burdens criminal legislation, 2/3 of the criminal trial from the lowest level to the Supreme Court deals with minor matters and then burdens the later penalty system. You've got people there, primary delinquents who are in cells with tough criminals who support 40-year prison sentences, multiple killers, craft killers, hit men, people who kill others like they're doing the most innocent work and you've got a young man and a girl who's come up with circumstances for the first time in prison. You have these young men and girls who stand trial with severely ill people, with hepatitis B and C, after a short term prison sentence of a few months they come home sick. This must not and cannot happen in a courteous country. And now instead of keeping every job that gives the prisoner a chance to rehabilitate him, you wipe out that member with a feather move. That's why the SDP club won't vote for this bill, but tomorrow when we come to power, we'll make it possible to resociate through work.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66541	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished counterpart Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66542	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of the HDZ Club, above all the reasons for the increased tones, the negativity of this law, because we have heard that the amendment of my colleague, Lovirn, which refers to the fact that despite these changes, prisoners will still have the opportunity to work in companies that are only being transferred under the authority of the Ministry of Economy under this law. So, this is a short law where we don't see reasons, the proposal was in the original form of this, but at the debate in the Committee on Legislatives, and thinking about it, the amendment will go towards the fact that prisoners will still have the opportunity to work in these two companies, which we consider to be good because the rehabilitation of prisoners, the socially beneficial work and acceptance of the return to the community through the work is something that we consider positive and something we certainly need to remain within these two companies. Namely, this law, which is before us, was first and foremost adopted by the Economic Recovery Plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the way in which the Ministry of Economy will conduct a public tender for management and supervisory board of these two companies, so "Orlja" d.o.o. in Požega and "Lipovica" d.o.o. In Popoca. First of all, these two societies have fallen into difficulties as we see in this bill of law. Why these two companies are in difficulty at this point is difficult to know. But we are also aware that the reasons can be different. First of all, both companies are on the market and the position of that company on the market, the competitiveness of what products, exports of products, sales to the Republic of Croatia depend on the performance of these companies, so we do not necessarily have to suspect that it may be the criminal acts of the administration or the supervisory board. I don't think it's all the black and white world, it could be something that's a question of the consequences of the positions of these companies on the market and whether what is produced under the given circumstances is actually sold. It's something that needs to separate the employment issues of employees and the resociation of prisoners in these two penitentiary facilities. First of all, the intention of legislation is that these two failed companies through the restructuring process, through the process of depolitisation of the administration and the supervisory board, try to put on their feet and try to put by these two companies successful companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these market positions issues, the question of competitiveness should be left to the economy and new administration, management and supervisory board, which is tasked with putting these two companies on their feet, restructure and make the products of Lipovica and Orljav companies competitive on the market. So here are our colleagues and colleagues, perhaps a little duty to try to take what product of "Storm" shirts produced in Croatia, not everything must be expensive, can be quality and good, and to Croatia, so here we can join ourselves in helping these companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, and I am sure that we will not make any mistakes in buying these products. So this is a short bill, and we have amended that we will accept the possibility that prisoners continue to work within these two companies, which is a contribution to their return to the community, the contribution of awareness that they are socially useful and a contribution to their resociation. I would say in the end that this is the continued continuation and economic recovery plan and the positive measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I call on all those who consider themselves to be sufficiently professional and able to apply to a public tender to help these two companies with their expertise, their economic competences and I think that here we have places for negativity. The HDZ Club supports the proposal for this law with the amendment put forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66543	Thank you very much. And the club of representatives of the CNS, HSU fellow representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66544	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry. Looking at what this law says in this law, we really don't see why we don't support it. There's no real reason why you can't support it. Following a government policy, policies that have proven a populist, cosmetic nature can no longer be representatives of the ministry, but can be the basis for a public tender that is re-elected by ministry representatives after the end of the public tender, the government and the government are nominated. And the system that has given transparent, a system that allows quality staffs to encourage quality personnel to lead, to sit on the supervisory board specifically here is about two companies "Lipovica" and "Orjavi" and we have solved the matter. Pure cosmetics, the government is consistent in proposing legislative proposals, something that we here in the assembly are going to discuss for more than an hour. The government discussed it, and we solved the problem with that form. I would like to remind my colleagues and colleagues that almost every debate or better said in each report, when we are discussing the report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions, one of the elements of that report is that less and less prisoners are employed. Less and less flawed. Back in five, six years, almost every report says that sentence. Copy-paste. Unfortunately, it's not a copy-paste, it's real. And that's where the key question is now why? Why do we have something in our prison system that worked well for some other years in some other times? Lipovica did not become a well-known producer of radiators on its own, it did not create a brand of itself, it was created by people and in Lipovica, created by employees in Lipovica and management and convicts who worked, convicted persons and in Orljava also in many other prisons because almost in all prisons, almost all prisons. The setup of the wooden plant in Lephead was a brand and it's still a brand, but why it doesn't work, which is why. I think this is a topic that should be addressed by the ministry, that this is a topic that should be seriously addressed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that it is then one of the topics that we should discuss in this Croatian Assembly. 'Cause this is gonna be one way or another, who's gonna... but it's less important, it's repeating cosmetics again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now logic says that cosmetics should be supported, one such attitude should be supported, but when we look at it segmentally. When we look at the general system, the system that does not work then simply we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired will join the SDP club's position that simply out of the protest what cosmetics are trying to do nothing to change the system, we will also not support this bill. In fact, the common thing is that working therapy is one of the best measures in the rehabilitation and training of prisoners, detained persons, that for this working therapy state has all the tools, has all the opportunities, has positive experiences in the environments in which it works, has positive experience in the time when it worked in our system. But it doesn't work today, and that's why it doesn't work, that's the key question. A colleague of Anticevic mentioned the overcrowding of prisons. Smart countries, European experiences exactly when they want to highlight and take as an example the success of the public private partnership take the building of prison facilities as an example of potential and quality and a successful public private partnership. It is absolutely certain that the system is quite different from what we have warned about, possible damage made to the public private partnership. The only public private partnership made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia was the construction of these handball championship halls. The obvious damage in all the cities, in all the municipalities where it was done, that this system of public private partnership was launched, and here where you have a clean story we don't get into. And this should be one of the economic recovery measures and one of the measures at that powerpoint presentation that we watch periodically every 6 months. And in this system to include then one system that will allow the detained and imprisoned persons, convicted persons, to have, to interest them in work, to stimulate them to work, and then we can say that we have a quality system, a system that enables them to one effective way through working therapy in the economic operators that we are discussing today, that they are primarily useful to those people who are going through the process of resocialization through work therapy, and ultimately to the whole society. Because it's incomprehensible, it's incomprehensible that in that segment all the potentials that we have as a state, as a society, but in a very different way of organization, that we don't use it. But that is why we are going with the Proposal for a Law amending the Penal Code, with a final proposal for a law where the amendment must highlight the need to continue in such companies closed and condemned. The amendment we have to do it, the government didn't know. It's hard to understand and it's really incomprehensible that this bill of law offends the common sense of all of us here because this is an insult to common sense. With one cosmetic which consists of two articles where we delete two articles, where we amend, insert one article again, we have solved the problem of working therapy, we have solved the problem of success or failure of the business of companies whose basic task is to facilitate work therapy and ultimately to resociate convicted persons on the one hand, and on the other hand we are solving the question of profitability which is definitely the problem. When we put on the one hand profitability, and on the other hand that this profitability should be a consequence through working therapy, there are certain problems, certain problems that make profitability impossible. This is true, but the state has instruments as well as in which and this profitability leads to a level that is satisfactory because of the whole system, that the system is sustainable, that the system in all elements, in all segments has all the characteristics of self-sustainability, that it opens up new opportunities and ultimately reduces the cost paid by taxpayers, citizens of this country, the cost of functioning... A system that's necessary, without which you can't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired, we would also like to warn the representatives of the Ministry who are directly responsible for why the system of working therapy does not work in all our prisons, why it does not work, but why inaction leads to a situation that sometimes profitable companies, brands, repeats both Lipovica and Orlja are increasingly in a deeper and deeper tone in non-profitability. And in the finality of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that, in the context of economic recovery, the segment takes as one of the segments that can benefit all of us, and primarily those who for various reasons ended up in prison as convicted persons and give them a chance at the end of which they have both the right and what is the constitutional category, as counterpart Antičević said – the right to work. Except with a sign of protest by the Croatian People's Party club, a protest over insubordination and insult, a literal insult to the common sense of our citizens who have nothing to do with the former Minister of Prison, nothing to do with the former ministers, but when you throw me out of the bench. I see you're in the element again. That's good. We cannot support this and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to allow all convicted persons to use their rights in situations where they have been found to play a game of life, especially for the people who have won, who have taken over the obligation to lead, the quality management of the prison system, and there are. A particular penitentiary. They've got them, they know their jobs. But let's let them do what these people used to do before it's very important to emphasize and say. I simply want to believe that we will welcome in this assembly and such suggestions that we can and can discuss it first and foremost because I repeat people who are detained and all of us together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66545	Thank you very much. And it's the Croatian Peasant Party Club. Dear colleague Stanko Grcic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66546	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The law on the execution of a prison sentence in force from 1 July 2001 in Article 174 provides for the establishment of companies from part of a limited liability economic unit of a prison and exclusively owned by the Republic of Croatia. It is prescribed that the establishment act will determine which rights and obligations from the economic unit are transferred to the company and the composition of the supervisory board and, in part, the composition of the management of the company and the employment of the prisoners. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The law on the execution of prison sentences and a declaration on the establishment of the administration of those companies consists of three members, one of which is the administrator of the penitentiary in Lipovica, in Popovaca or the penitentiary in Požega. The Supervisory Board of each of those companies has five members, one of whom is the President of the Workers' Council of the Society and one of the officials of the penitentiary while the other are officials of the Ministry of Justice. Decisions establishing companies have established the obligation of companies to co-finance the Ministry of Justice's prison system of 2% of the total company's income. Due to the inability to settle the established obligation and to amend the decision to set up the company "Lipovica" d.o.o. in Popovaca, and the decision to set up the company Orljav in Požega, this obligation is set at 40% of the actual profits of the company in the current year. Because of the difficulties in business and the losses achieved by the company, they are not able to meet the obligation to co-finance the prison system, and they are also unable to hire prisoners. The basic regulation governing the issues of the establishment of companies of the composition and competence of the Supervisory Board and the Assembly, the rights and obligations of their members, is the Law on Commercial Companies. Construction of trade companies "Lipovica" d.o.o. in Popovača and "Rivlja" d.o.o. in Pozega, outside the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, it will enable their more efficient business to be restructured in order to overcome the difficulties of the business resulting in losses, as well as the implementation of a public tender for the selection of members of supervisory, or management boards of companies that will be highly expert in the area of management and economy responsible for the development and implementation of the restructuring and business plan of the company. And given the already given amendments that we believe will improve the very proposal of this Law, the Croatian Peasant Party Club supports the proposal of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66547	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. First, a respected colleague, Ivo Grbić, signed up. Here's a colleague of the Grbic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66548	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law amending the Penal Code with the final draft law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in an emergency parliamentary procedure. With this proposal, the companies "Lipovica" d.o.o. and "Snaps" d.o.o. They shall form outside the Ministry of Justice, i.e. they shall be placed under the authority of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, which is desirable and normal, given that other companies are also mostly or exclusively owned by the Republic of Croatia, also within the authority of the Ministry of Economy. In view of the proposed authority of the Ministry of Economy, it is also necessary to support the new proposal to elect members of the management board and the supervisory board of appointed companies, all in order to select persons who will professionally conduct the business of the company and to help address the difficulties in which these companies operate, and to assist the financial consolidation of the companies. With respect to the applicant’s explanation contained in the assessment of the situation and issues which are regulated by this law in the section relating to the difficulties of the company in its business, which primarily refers to the inability to fulfil the obligation to co-finance the prison system, Article 174 should be re-examined in the section of the proposal concerning the erasure of paragraphs 3 and 4. According to the very assessment of the situation, the companies "Lipovica" d.o.o. and "Snaps" d.o.o. and formed from part of the economic units of the penitentiary in Lipovica and from the penitentiary in Požega,... It would be worth reconsidering the possibility of hiring prisoners. [[You don't understand.]] Here we have heard before the presentation of the proposer's representative, that Mrs Lovrin's amendment was accepted in this regard. On the basis of this, I would like to point out that I will support the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66549	Thank you. It's the honorary representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66550	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Here's since I personally worked for eight years at the Department of Prison Penalty, I found it interesting to listen to these discussions of our predecessors, and I have to react just like that, or start this debate with a few facts. I must say here that the penitentiary in Lipovica and the penitentiary in Požega were not the only penitentiary in the Republic of Croatia that has an economic unit. It was an interesting decision by the government in 2002 why exactly these two economic units were somehow separated from the prison system, while these others were not. Well the reason was very simple, and it comes down to being Lipovica, where the factory of the radiator, and also... The most famous shirt factory, simply in such a system could no longer function, to remain the Croatian brand they are today. [[You don't understand.]] For this reason, just one hybrid was created between the company and the economic unit of the penitentiary, so they were formed as a company, but not until the end because their administration was tied to the employees of the Ministry of Justice who you know are not businessmen themselves and do not think as the directors of the companies that are in the competition should think. The idea of separating the two penitentiary was actually, there were two ideas. One was to fill an additional state budget with profits from these economic operators, and another idea was actually to allow prisoners to work within the meaning of the Penal Code. I must mention here, given that some have said that in this way the work of prisoners is disabled, that it is simply not true, and the day today in the Law on the execution of a prison sentence which is drastically... , i.e. this law was passed just at the time of the coalition government and in early 2001 or 2002, the work was established as an advantage. [[You don't understand.]] And today working in this law is also a convenience in both Croatian prison and penitentiary, those who execute prison sentences do not have to work, so work is voluntary. Since I was the director of one penitentiary for five years, we had the same economic unit, and we were facing the problem that these two, the two Orljav and Lipovic companies are facing today, it's simply impossible to count on the prison labour force at any time, because they have their legal rights, and the legal rights they mean first of all that I can say today, tomorrow I won't work, the second is their legal right, are the transfers, so once it's here, secondly it's there, as the end of the prison is coming, and they're going into milder conditions, so they're going from the penitentiary closed to the semi-open, to end in the open, and thus... their way to freedom. [[You don't understand.]] So neither, nor the other condition why these two companies were then formed in 2002, and this is a payment in the budget and the employment of the prisoners has not been achieved. Here I was talking to a relevant person yesterday from this very company we're talking about here today, and I asked why you don't have any prisoners as mentioned here. So he says we simply couldn't count on them, but just like the company, we had some extra difficulties about getting credit, about the way we did business, because we were simply a state-owned company within the ministry and we couldn't function like other companies that could react faster on the market. I believe that this way, by adopting these amendments and supplementing the law does not in any way deny the right of prisoners to work, the right to rehabilitate them, but I simply believe that by taking this step, these two companies, by crossing under the Ministry of Economy, are simply this step so that these brands of Orljav and Lipovica continue to be held in an equal match with their competitors, and I simply think that this is a good step in the sense of keeping these companies safe. That's why I'm going to support the passing of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66551	Thank you. And in the end, she's an esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam and Mr. Secretary of State. I will, of course, support the amendments and additions of the Penal Code, because I believe it is on the trail of the programme, the Government's Economic Recovery Programme, but also in accordance with the General Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and that this provision on how members of the Supervisory Board are elected as well as in other laws affecting these issues, so that members of the Supervisory Boards are chosen by the basis of a public tender, that the Government elects them and appoints them. It's not good, and you should think about the expressions that we heard here on behalf of the SDP club, and the HNS club that from the cap, on purpose or whatever it is, it's not going to vote for this law, although it's good, but it's not going to do it on purpose and that's why, I don't know why, so it's just not a serious performance. Let us not forget here that at the time of the coalition government of the SDP, the HNS has been passed a Penalty Law which has determined that within 6 months of the entry into force of that law, from workshops, from prison workshops, to simplify, or economic units within the penitentiary, companies with limited liability will be established, in the exclusive ownership of the Republic of Croatia, and the instrument of establishment will determine the rights and obligations that will be passed from the economic unit to the company, the way in which these supervisory committees and administrations will be representatives of the penitentiary, and that the instrument of establishment will be regulated and the employment of prisoners. What happened? So according to that law, companies were established, the founding act prescribed that they would provide 5% of the total, 2% of the total income for the activity of the penitentiary, but what we have already heard was simply not able to meet that obligation. Of course, it would be inappropriate for the state itself to push its company into bankruptcy because it cannot meet its obligation to pay for improving the work of the penitentiary. Therefore, these founding statements were changed then in 2007 and 2008 in a way that the obligation was not determined in relation to the total income, and that it was then generated and the losses were already established at 40% of the actual profit. However, since these companies have fallen into difficulties and not now but have been doing so all the time, regardless of the fact that these products were identified on the market as good radiators from Lipovica and Orljavina shirts, they have not achieved such results in order to meet this obligation. Today, these factories have the extra workers themselves, and as far as the prisoner's employment is concerned, I'm saying that these companies have actually developed such a technology that they couldn't even find proper qualified personnel anymore in the penitentiary. And all the time this has happened since that year 2002, so it's not true that the prisoners were working inside. There was a small number of prisoners working inside, mostly people who were employed from the labour market in view of the necessary qualifications. Therefore, I think this law only addresses the issue of governance, so the election of the Supervisory Board, as I have said in accordance with other laws. And it should and should be supported. As for the work of Article 81, it is likely that the State Secretary will explain in more detail this law that every prisoner has the right to work, can also work within economic units of the penitentiary, but also outside the penitentiary. Thus, this change does not in any way prevent the work occupation and does not prevent the work occupation of prisoners. Of course, as one of the best treatments and in law enforcement, but also as a preparation for future rehabilitation. Therefore, I must point out that the amendment that I have submitted is that these amendments do not delete the provisions of existing laws that say "The company referred to in paragraph 1 of this article will also employ prisoners in accordance with the founding act." This amendment itself does not mean that we will enable them to employ prisoners because they could do so in accordance with Article 81 of the Law. My intensity of the amendment was to keep it in the text of the law, given in general the positioning of this article within the Penal Code, because it shouldn't be like the whole article, but because it has to be historic why it is and how societies are created at all, then it remains item 1. So when it has to stay that article, it's good to stay this 4th, which makes some link to those societies even with the penitentiary and the employment of prisoners. Here, therefore, even today inside the penitentiary there are economic units, there is the possibility of working occupation for prisoners, it is not impossible except for those who are sick or explicitly refusing to work. And now it's a matter of assessing whether it's even this move to get some prison workshops to go to the establishment of a company, whether they were necessary, whether they were successful from the aspect of the incomes of the penitentiary and the employment of prisoners turned out to be not. And so I think that this law should be supported in order for at least this governance structure to be chosen in accordance with all other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66553	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want final? Yeah. Dear Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the thing, although fellow MPs have already said some things, but simply some things deserve to be repeated and perhaps a little clearer and more precise. There is no question that prisoners have no right to work or that it is denied for any reason. Prisoners are denied that right, so to speak, only when they don't want it. So, at the express request and desire of the prisoners or when the disease is preventing them from doing so. In any case, the prisoner has the right to work and has the right to be employed within the prison, or penitentiary. Therefore, I was a little surprised by the reaction related to this one technical amendment to the law because this is nothing more than a technical amendment to the law that allows the supervisory board of these bodies, i.e. in these companies, to be chosen on the basis of a public tender. It's the only intensity of amending this provision. I'm sorry that there are no colleagues from the HNS, there was no intention to insult anyone's common sense and the least esteemed representatives of this House. The applicant simply considered that the provision of Article 81 was sufficient to make it clear that prisoners still have the right to work in institutions, or workshops within the penitentiary, but also in other companies outside. However, in discussions on committees, we have found that this may not be precise enough, that it may not be clear enough, and for this reason we have accepted the amendment of the esteemed representative, Anna Lovrin, and I believe that we have absolutely explained the proposal's intention. Here, I think this argument was necessary to avoid speculation about what was meant to be achieved by these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66555	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66556	Here's your correction. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. Prisoners have the right to work, but I can't, Secretary of State, unfortunately, achieve it. And it's an irrefutable fact not denied by members of the treatment. So, there are prisoners who would like to work, and their desire and law cannot be satisfied because there are no jobs. As a result, this eradication of this item, which allowed boredom obligations not only for prisoners to work but also for those companies to hire prisoners, is lifted. And it's not technical, it's essential, it's changes in essential nature where there's no more obligation for Orljava or Lipovica for these companies to hire prisoners. So instead of creating an even bigger commitment, it's one thing and the other thing the state has no money has no money for the penalty system, you promise for years to build new prisons and now you're making it impossible for these companies, or you're ending their obligation to help the prison system.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66557	Thank you very much for closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66558	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Penal Code was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 683. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by attorney Anna Lovrin. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I therefore put to the vote the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the execution of prison sentences. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The final bill was adopted by most votes, 94 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 2 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66559	Moving to the 7th point of the agenda is 7th. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Airports, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 702. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by post, on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Rule 154 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session, the amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Daniel Mileta State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66560	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The airport law should be brought into line with the Law on concessions, since concessions for airports cannot be fully applied to the provisions of the Law on concessions. The airport law came into force in 1998, the concession law 2008. The concession law provides that concessions may be granted to airports, but it is also envisaged that conditions, procedures, methods and other issues of importance for the award of concessions for certain areas or sectors, in this case for the airport sector are defined by specific laws, or sectoral laws, in this case there is this law or amendments and additions to the law we are talking about. This is also the main reason why it went into the changes and complements, and it is clear by the urgent procedure that this is primarily about the concession for the new airport of Zagreb, which does not exclude that if these changes are accepted and complemented, the same thing can be done on the other 6 airports, international republics of Croatia, which are Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Pula and Osijek. What else we've done in these changes and supplements. We predicted the possibility of extradition to speed up the airport construction process itself, and we also said that the construction of airports is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Third, we adapted the Airport Act, which dates back to 98 with the Law on Air Transport, which contains certain European directives, and then we partially adapted this air traffic law. The third is, which is important that we have introduced two types of supervision, control of concessions where concessions are then subject to concession provisions and regulations, and inspection supervision related to this technical part carried out by the Civil Aviation Agency. That would be briefly what you have on your benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66561	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then we'll begin the debate. I'm opening a debate. The first one's the club's turn. In the name of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Gary Capelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66562	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. So here's the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Airport Act, so with the Final Proposal of the Law is ahead of us. We know that the 98th Airport Act defined the concept of airport and its legal status, the activity of legal persons providing services at airports, and the conversion of funds to existing airports. It is thus prescribed that the airport space is open to public air traffic, thus maintaining areas with operational surfaces, facilities, devices, facilities and therefore defined that airports are well of interest to the Republic of Croatia. When we say well of interest to the Republic of Croatia, the very data that were for 2010 compared to 2009 see that in the last year compared to 2009, traffic increased in airports by 6%, traffic was recorded at 5.18 million passengers. The data from the civil aviation agency, therefore, the largest percentage increase in the number of passengers transported is recorded by Zadar airport, somewhere over 30% or around 255,000 passengers. Dubrovnik Airport also numbers a rise of 13.30%, so at 1.25 million and through Split Airport, it passed a little more than 2% about 10% more than a year ago. The biggest Croatian airport Zagrebačka registered about 2 million passengers in the past year, almost 1% more than in 2009. So with full right, we can say that airports in the Republic of Croatia are good for the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, on the date of entry into force of the Law on Airports, the Airports of Zagreb, Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, Pula, Rijeka and Osijek became legal persons whose core capital is part of the Republic of Croatia, the county of which has an airport and units of local self-government determined by the same law, with the roles of the same law. Although the Airport Act provides for the possibility of changing the ownership structure established by that law, there has been no change in airport ownership structures so far through the transfer of business shares. Since, following the adoption of the Airport Act, the regulations relating to the airport itself and in the area of air transport have been amended primarily by the Air Transport Act as a basis for the adoption of such a regulation, it has in some way regulated that it can be brought into line with the regulations of the European Union. It was therefore appropriate to amend and supplement the provisions of the Airport Act accordingly. Furthermore, the 2008 concession law provides for the possibility to grant concessions in different areas and for different activities, and thus explicitly provides for that possibility for airports. However, the provisions of paragraph 3 of that Article provide that the conditions, procedures, arrangements and other questions are to be laid down for the award of concessions for a particular area or activity are to be governed by a specific law. Since the Airport Act is the very law on airports, it was necessary to propose amendments and additions to the same law, so that the harmonisation of the Airport Act with the Law on concessions was carried out in a way that the proposal for a law provides for the possibility of concession for the construction, management of the airport, the time of concession, the power and the concession procedure, and the concession fee. Furthermore, the proposed additions determines the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the construction of airports and the procedure for the expropriation of real estate for the construction of the airport. So this proposal to amend the Law on Airports creates assumptions for giving in the concession of the construction of a new Kutinsko terminal in Zagreb Airport, which was not possible under the current law. Legal changes to the possibility of providing airports or certain services to a concession and a limit to a maximum of 40 years. The concession fee would be the revenue of the state budget and would be shared between the units of the district and local self-government according to the ownership stakes. In the case of Zagreb port, revenue would be shared by the state, Zagreb County and the cities of Zagreb and Velika Gorica. The law also defines the state interest in the construction of airports and the procedure for the expropriation of real estate for such construction. To avoid the possibility of stopping projects due to unresolved property-legal relations. As we have seen, conditions are created that certainly speed up in some way investment, and I will tell this at this time the same problem of Rijeka Airport which is certainly at this point in a very bad state and simply cry out for the investor. And as announced by the County of Primorje-goranska and the city of Rijeka that it has an interest in 2 to 3 partners, here is the opportunity to in some way concession for 40 years, and since we have partners in the announcement, it has finally solved the problem that has been related to Rijeka Airport for years. Therefore, the adoption of this law of the same provision will be brought into line with the provisions of applicable rules in the field of air traffic as well as the Law on concessions. This will regulate areas which have not been regulated or which are not properly regulated and in conformity with the applicable regulations and, above all, the possibility as mentioned by the award of an airport concession. Since the adoption of this law is of exceptional economic importance because concessions for airports can only be granted after its adoption and adoption on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I support its immediate adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66563	Thank you. That concludes the morning debate. At 3:00 p.m., we'll proceed. The first in line on behalf of the HDSSB club will be a respected representative, Boro Grubisic. Thank you very much. We'll continue the afternoon session. 7th item of the agenda Final draft law amending and supplementing the Airport Act. Like I said, the debate is on clubs. It is on behalf of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66565	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the government. Here is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Airports, with the Final Proposal of the Law as one of the titles of the legislative proposal covering all 7 airports in the Republic of Croatia which are classified, which are claimed to be of State interest to the Republic of Croatia, as they are. However, in order to be able to discuss what the essence and essence is, it is one of 30 projects announced in the new business of the Croatian government is Zagreb Airport, that is to say, the construction of Zagreb Airport, which should become according to the newspaper inscriptions which have been printed these 4 years, so futuristic fantasy, jumping across the ocean, aircraft, garages and hotels in the airport, low cost terminal, etc. Well, a little chronologically to compare the facts. In fact, here we have an article from 2007 on August 2nd, 2007, so in the election year, where on the icon that has the mayor of Zagreb sitting here, Mr. former Prime Minister from Salzburg Mr. Sanader and Mrs. Jadranka Kosor with society, all of which are tanned, since on August 2, 2007, in which it is agreed, that the entire project of Zagreb Airport should not be longer than what is worth 212m euros or more than a billion kuna, should be completed by 2010. That was in August 2007. So he says Prime Minister Sanader and Zagreb Mayor Milan BAndic have agreed to complete with joint forces a project to build a new airport passenger terminal in Zagreb. The entire project is 212m euros, according to the self-financing model, of which 165m euros would be financed from the so-called. Foreign sources, while the rest of the 47m euros would divide the city of Zagreb and the state 35:55 and the town of Velika Gorica and Zagreb County in total 10%. Now, in the course of the 2007 event, he is talking about how to finance the construction of the Zagreb Airport and he says that I should tell the official or act as director of the Zagreb Airport then. Which says, I think it is not wise to hand over Zagreb Airport into the hands of a private partner because the value of its infrastructure is quite small right now, so there is no big money, and besides, we have enough experience and knowledge in running this job that we do not need a foreign partner at all costs that would bring their knowledge, the best partner in this project ZLZ are certainly the state and city of Zagreb. Which was finally confirmed by the consultants from the company Deloit who made the so-called "Deloit". a new own model of financing a new passenger terminal. So this is completely contrary to what this bill wants to achieve. According to what was proposed in 2007, we could already have a new airport today, as promised in that election year and now we have that election year again in 2011, and we have one legislative proposal in connection with the same thing that was happening at the 2007 meeting of the former prime minister and the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. But with changed foundations on financing the construction of Zagreb Airport. Who's right about that? Why has there been a change? We know that there is a project IGH thank God and who else would know that there were articles in the media where it says, I quote, I don't turn out to be like HDSSB something insinuating, so "HDZ and IGH secretly kidnap Dance." It says. But we don't want to talk about what it said, so let's go back to what's being proposed today. In terms of economic recovery, one of the measures was that of 200 euros for sale, to increase the number of apartments sold, as the measure passed, I don't think we should debate much, we all know that it has passed, nothing has achieved or achieved very little. How will this bill pass or it is intended in the year of election, as a pre-election promise or trick, it is also difficult to say, what they say were alive and seen. When the construction of Zagreb Airport was discussed in 2007, then the partners were state, city of Zagreb, Velika Gorica and Zagreb County. We are now introducing quite safely according to the proposal of this law and the third party. Page three. The third party will do nothing or invest if there is no clear gain in this. If there is a possible profit, if it feels like the smell of fresh blood from the scavengers, or money launderers smell freshly printed euros or dollars, then I wonder how the state of Croatia, the city of Zagreb and other participants interested in building the Zagreb Airport do not smell the same, but it is given to the third party, someone to say eventually to the future partner who will enter it. It seems to me that we did the same thing when it was T-Mobile, when it was INA, a lot of others. And then we say they have people gain, it's a huge profit etc., so can't we have a profit, do we have to give it to the third party? And in 2007, we talked or there were talks about just funding and the way, the model that the company even accepted is French, if it's French Deloa, if it's English Deloit, I don't know exactly which it is, but it's also paid, consultants are paid for intellectual services and it's very expensive. It means that this consulting company and its self-financing plan have definitely failed, and the money given to the consulting firm in connection with the construction of the Zagreb Airport has actually been thrown into the wind. It is not only the Zagreb Airport that is of interest to the state of Croatia. There are seven airports of special national interest, so Zagreb, Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik and Osijek. There were also talks here about Rijeka Airport or Krka. I also see us in Slavonia interested in the Osijek Airport, where domestic airline and many others in the government are really macho. So we also know that that unfortunate flight schedule to the marine destinations of Osijek in half a week, so it's as if people go on only Wednesdays to the sea, which is also this summer months, which is also a nonsensic that the domestic carrier, the air carrier, is, watching how he treats people who live on what you like to say to the Pannonian region or I don't know what it's called, and it's called Slavonia and Baranja and we'll never give up on it, from the name Slavonia and Baranja. Investments, one of them is this Zagreb Airport, of those 30, the Danube-Sava channel as fiction is also mentioned in materials. Corridor 5c, one bridge across the Sava that, through Drava no, where that bridge across the Sava will lead as one of the investments that is also in some forecast for construction, nowhere because on the Bosnian side there is no highway south for now. For the north there is over Drava, for a meeting with the Republic of Hungary and highways in the Republic of Hungary. All this together says that in fact this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Airports is exclusively intended and easily adapted to the construction of the Zagreb Airport and the giving of what cannot now be implemented by the current legal provisions, so concessions up to 40 years as it says here in the material, to some third. If after 5, 10 years when it turns out that someone really invested wisely, he will invest, and you can see that the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb could have that money of profits that will blend into this modern airport, which is now worth more than 215 million euros or a billion kuna for the first time. Similar to what is intended to give concessions for jobs, land affairs in order to say, not air affairs, so what is done exclusively on the ground, so at a level rather than above, is now announced, silently whispered for hunting wealth, for forest wealth, is mentioned 7 billion euros, etc. What usually happens after a while turns out to be true and I really think that slowly with smaller copies of family silver such as Zagreb Airport we are moving towards, unfortunately, the way to sell out larger pieces of family silver. On the contrary to what we thought would be achieved through the Economic Recovery Programme of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, the HDSSB club decided to be restrained in connection with this legislative proposal because there is indeed one polypragmasia, in order to say medically, in terms of financing, concessioning, self-financing of the construction of the Zagreb Airport which I really must tell the Republic of Croatia as one of the more frequent airports of south-east Europe and the most frequent airports in the Republic of Croatia and clearly, as the airport of the Croatian capital of the Republic of Croatia. Here, the HDSSB club will, for all these reasons and vague legal proposals from which a lot of negatives can arise, be restrained by this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66566	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear representative Marina Matulović-Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I was going to say that Mr. Representative has said that the funds that have been invested so far in making tender documentation have been dumped. There was a public tender for the production of tender documentation because such a big deal cannot be given in a concession without having a tender opened and not choosing a foreign firm which is now selected through a public tender. And they made a tender documentation based on which only now will a concession be opened for the construction and management of the airport itself. Therefore, the funds were not dropped. Someone had to do it. As far as the apartments were concerned, all those apartments that could be sold, which means that all those builders who had registered apartments and those people who could get loans from the banks, they bought apartments. Of course we'd all be happier and happier if there were more. But that's not what could be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66568	Thank you. What's wrong with the Rules of Procedure? There was a correct correction to the incorrect assumption. Here, let me hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66569	Of course I can at least get the right to vote, the right words. According to Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure, the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is therefore in connection with what the distinguished colleague presented. I didn't, so I was talking about what you said. I was talking about a company that was doing a model of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66570	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't think it should be done in the future. We're moving on with the club debate. It is the turn of the HNS club, HSU's esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66571	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the motion, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. We have a law that introduces several elements of the liberal economy against which the HNS as one of the two parties that make up my club would be only if I went crazy, which is a concession. However, we congratulate the promoter that he has put us in a position to be against the law that actually proposes the elements of the liberal economy for which we are. Well, how did he do it? That's what we saw from the opening argument. So, if the Republic of Croatia and its Government, with the help of this Assembly, were to raise awareness of the need for some of the public resources to be valorised by using the concession model, to make better use of it, to increase its value, and the general public benefit to protect it in such a way that everything we have in the air traffic system is valorised objectively, then we would have nothing against such a discussion, and we would like it to be managed soberly and without haste because of the great and important interests we call public. However, there is no word here that the government has estimated that the resources in Krk, Zadar, Osijek or elsewhere are better used, better quality management of them and finds partners who know their jobs. Because these are the resources in Croatia where we, because of objective circumstances, and also the possibilities or limitations of the owner himself, are not able to realise the sudden leaping changes and growth that might be economically called a miracle. That's where we need partners who know more and better than we do. But the promoter doesn't hide at all that this whole law is so well-conceived just because of a case called Zagreb Airport. Why the case? Because for years it has been on the agenda, and there are not enough responsible people to sit down, add up one plus one, assess the interests of all four co-owners and the public interest of the Republic of Croatia by respecting one of the state's transport interests, under two of the state's environmental interests, under three interests of local self-government. Neither, nor the other, nor the third. Nor what is the prerequisite of any serious debate, which is the economic elaborate of justification for any investment in the Zagreb Airport. We are sold to God that Zagreb Airport is so bad that it is unable to accept this dramatic increase in traffic that awaits us by 2030. It is said that the airport is an overworked business system, that Zagreb Airport as such is unable to serve more significant traffic in that part of Europe. So we're told that the airport under emergency needs not only the construction of the terminal, but the construction of a new terminal, the construction of a second runway and so on. There's some logic in that approach. But if we had that previous original condition, it's an objective analysis of the economic viability of what we're talking about. It's never been done. And I'll just remind you of the following. The Zagreb airport serves about 50 aircraft per day. She has a standing capacity of 22 seats. It takes an average of 30 minutes to accept and dispatch the aircraft. If only with 10 parking spaces at the station, it means that 20 planes are sent in one hour and 50 planes in just 2 and a half hours a day. So I'm asking you what we're talking about here? High hours between 13 and 15 o'clock. Well, that's ridiculous! Are we going to open a story about a useful permit and how Zagreb Airport protects the environment and whether the coastal water is collected? Shall we open that? Are we going to open a story about whether 5700 square meters or 5872 square meters of new business space being upgraded is too small for airport functions, so we're going to have to build another terminal. Why? Because the old man is ugly. Is that an argument? Do we know what really is the narrow throat of the Zagreb Airport? Did anyone ever mention a sortery? Did we cover it with existing projects run by the current management that came under very suspicious circumstances at the head of the airport. We're introducing several precedents with this law. Among other things, the model of expropriation against which no one smart has anything to do with national interest, when it comes to public interest, and we see it among other things in road construction. But will we play with the fate of 5 thousand people living in settlements affected by this provision in the case of Zagreb airport? Should the names of these settlements be mentioned before the Parliament? Small and big Hives, petine, blackie? A thousand 200 objects, people who have largely escaped from the war on the affected areas of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, who built houses on the agricultural land, who at that time received all the connections, but have not today a building permit or a useful permit for their facilities, and who tomorrow will knock on their doors and tell them what you owners are, in fact, agricultural land, and given this provision of the law, you will receive compensation for agricultural land and nothing more. So where are we going with these people? So no one has seriously sat down in the last 40 years and talked about solving this problem, but now a mini-declaration in this law puts their fate at risk. That's not smart. Second. We heard that the Republic of Croatia is not the only owner of the Zagreb airport, but it is little known that the local self-government unit, whose territory is the Zagreb airport, is the only local self-government unit whose territory has any airport that has less than 15% ownership, in this particular case Velika Gorica has 5%. No one has asked Zagreb County or the town of Velika Gorica what they think about development projects, how they are laid on these foundations of concessions. Of course, because the government is doing everything on its own. Here is an answer to my parliamentary question, which arrived yesterday, in which, as well as in response to Dragutin Lesar's question, fellow MPs, the Government confirms that on 15 July 2010, it decided to move towards the development of the airport according to the concession model. To realize just now that it is impossible to go into this model until this law is changed, and until then, she claimed that existing legal solutions and the Law on Public Procurement are quite enough for the realisation of the concession. No, they're not. So what was the consequence? Several times so far, the deadlines of realization have changed. So what was said to be until 15.9. then it was postponed until 15.12., so it was postponed until 15 January, etc., etc., as if we do not remember that the same story was in 1999 also part of the pre-election activities of the Croatian Democratic Community, where it also tried to introduce a small door to a model through which a public interest would be damaged. And now he's in a hurry. And now, at all costs, he wants to inaugurate a solution before the elections in the Republic of Croatia. And this solution that has absolutely no economic justification, this solution at the Zagreb airport, which is independent, self-sustainable, fully profitable business entity, which only from the title of its own accumulation can finance its development without any problem, and also has such a bonus that it can get whenever it wants, as much credit funds as it wants for its development, let's take the parallel. It's given up the co-financing model, but let's take a parallel with the port in Gagenica, Zadar. A port that has no history, no business credit, no employees, no single contracted ship, nothing but an accessible fast road from the highway, and it will come to the agenda very soon. So, without a problem, the port receives guarantees from the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a 240m-euro loan. A Zagreb airport that has been developed for decades... It's terribly untapped... [[You don't understand.]] Absolutely all the elements of development in your own hands, the money in the account that has been melting like butter in the last year, look at the government's response to my representative's question, and ask yourself where the money that's been spent on the airport's gyrocalc of Zagreb and at what speed it's melting, so that airport, this economic operator is now falling into a higher level of something called a combination of lobby interests in construction and the interests of some concrete people who have been lobbying around this solution for more than two years. [[You don't understand.]] So good for you. You've brought us as a liberal party in a position to vote against the bill that formally introduces the principles of the liberal economy, which we didn't have in this law so far, but you've actually put us in a position to scream out loud that you're opening up the possibility of a public goods robbery with this solution, and we're not going to shut it up. And you defend yourself as much as you want, but we will do everything we can to ensure that you do not make it to the airport of Zagreb until the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66572	Thank you. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66573	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's hard to correct everything Mr. Beus said, because he's put out a series of inaccuracies with no arguments. First of all, I don't think there's a right to even be a council representative to scare 5 grand big-goreans, because no one's going to move anyone. But Mr. Beus doesn't know the Great Gora well, so then he doesn't know where to get the airport. It's another thing. Who would make a concession offer on the basis of his debate now? If that's so desperate, if that's so bad, who would invest 300 million euros in a new airport and lose that 300 million euros? Well, it's out of my mind. But one thing is politics, and the other is to worry about the future of 800 large-scale people working at the airport. This is one thing, however, Mr. Beus has also prevented the construction of the highway towards the actually Homeland Bridge, therefore it is very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66574	Please don't throw it out of the bench. ... You can't allow it or not allow it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm running a session, and please, if you have an objection then do it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Don't throw it away. Don't, don't throw it out of the bench. When you like it, it's good. When you don't like it, then you start yelling. ... Please, it's a personal animosity that you can keep to yourself. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The intruder doesn't understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand. Try, try to get rid of it. You'll have to. .../]] I don't know how you think that, but we'll talk about it. Thank you very much. I don't want to de-commit with you, and you can't paralyze. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Beus doesn't come from Zadar County, but I've been kind of 40 and over years tied up with the ending you're talking about, so I'm gonna say you've made some kind of inaccuracies. You said the port in Gagenica had no bonuses wanting and alluding to something else. But I have to tell you, he's got quite a bonus. There is no need for the city of Zadar and the surroundings of Zadar for one such port which will also be a ferry port and a freight port, if you did not know. If you haven't been to Zadar in the summer season and even now in the post-season take a walk on the Zadar coast, see how busy it is when the ferry stops for all the Zadar islands and when the cargo ship comes to port. There's no Zadar just a quick road you're alluding, Zadar needs this port very badly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66576	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Gary Cappelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66577	So I'm correcting the wrong allegation because in one segment he pointed out that these concessions and such a law would not do any good. So I come from the county where it will very much bring, specifically to Rijeka Airport in Krk, which currently operates with 30% less traffic, 45% less income, and will bring in very good because with the possibility of concessioning, and there are 2.3 interested, the crucial issue will be resolved and the bringing of far more quality guests, so aviation guests. And with this law that we've been crying out loud, we're solving a crucial issue, so Rijeka Airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66578	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, it's the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. The second in line is Honorable Representative Zivko Nenadić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66579	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Although it is said here which is the reason for amending this Airport Act, it is therefore essential to comply with the laws that came into force after it – the Air Transport Act and the Law on concessions, and of course related to the code, i.e. public-private partnership. I wouldn't do it now, even though I've been thinking about these things a little bit, but actually I won't, there's no need. That's all clear. I think what Mr. Beus was saying is more important now. A lot of things he thought and wanted to stop, but before he stopped you from highway to other things so I wouldn't go back to the '90s, he'd be stopped by voters, and there's no fear of that. I think that this measure and this amendment to the law are one of the measures that the government encourages to recover the economy. Says Mr. Beus, the airport is strong enough to handle this on its own and so on. So did anyone stop anyone from doing that? Well, she was both the board and the board of directors and the director they brought to the coalition government, but nothing moved from place. If he can solve it now, he can do it where he can be happy for the state and for all of us if he can bring it out and solve it himself. Therefore, let's not prevent this if the airport can solve this on its own here's the possibility of a paper, legal, let it solve it, and if not the state must in any way be obliged to have any public-private partnership, any concessions, any budgets, but it has to solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66580	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66581	You mention a fellow representative so why has this not been resolved so far if Zagreb Airport was economically able? Well, of course it was, precisely because it developed was a model of self-financing in which it wasn't possible to develop these bat models as you are now preparing them. The administration of the Zagreb Airport has been removed, driven and simply disabled in the realisation of the project. So for two years now, it has been withdrawn through Croatian media, and already everyone knows how Minister Kalmeta replaced the director of Zagreb Airport and how he brought in the man who runs Zagreb Airport today, who did not meet the criteria of competition, so they changed the statutes of the Zagreb Airport so that the man could become the director at all, to spend the model they came up with elsewhere. And we know very well and where because there were presentations at several European forums where representatives of the Croatian Institute of Construction and some concrete people just presented this model before the government gave up the model of self-financing. Everything was done systematically and slowly until this point came to bring in people who would carry out a political order issued on July 15th 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66582	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66583	Thank you, Vice President. Now I don't know exactly how many years the director was when you say he's been removed politically, etc., I believe it. Politically everyone comes, politically goes to these high functions. We don't need to be fooled or fooled. It's been eight years. Well, if it's eight years to start something, then I have nothing to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66584	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's the Honorable representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66585	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I just wanted to get involved in this debate for a little while and look back on this new bill that's before us. In any case, I would like to say that in the beginning I support this bill and we are mostly talking about what the law is about, that is, the possibility of concessioning is that so far has not been a practice or been a legal possibility. You know that, we all know that there are different funding models and obviously the Croatian government is considering the new funding models we heard yesterday when we talked about continuing to build the highway towards Dubrovnik. This is obviously a model of public-private partnership. If we look at it in the long run, the works will be opened, construction operations will be activated and there is something else that is very important, and nobody here has mentioned. By building such an imaginary airport, Zagreb becomes a regional centre and becomes the first regional airport here. Which means what Frankfurt may be for Europe and Amsterdam will be Zagreb for this part of the world. And that's what we don't talk about and maybe it's not clearly said in the opening statement, but it's very important. And let's not let this kind of negativeistic attitude get the better of us in the region. That is why I am actively joining this appeal and joining the government's economic recovery programme because this is one of the measures. We also have different examples specifically of Dubrovnik airport being renovated from our own resources but it is a reconstruction of only terminals, it is not a major construction, in particular Dubrovnik airport has reinvested its own profit of 25 to 30 million euros and the prime minister has opened a recently large passenger terminal but it was possible for such a small investment but when it goes to the construction of a large port such as Zagreb then it is necessary this way of financing. The economic effects are going to be huge, I think it's very hard to discuss this with someone I respect the Great Gorica, the unit of local administration and self-government, but I think this is a much wider issue than the Great Gorica, don't get me wrong. When talking about this concession, the compensation goes to the state budget part, and part according to the shares in the county, the municipality or city that owns it. So according to the shares, that concession fee will be shared. Believe me, for 40 years, no matter what I don't know about this economic analysis right now, but I do know of some other analysis, it's a minimum period on which a concession can be given for such a large facility. I had experience on a public private partnership in Dubrovnik with the construction of a public garage, which barely pays for 33 years. I also have one experience with giving one fortification facility that had to be completely rehabilitated for 30 years, and it's not possible to give it for many years because of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods and we had to put a priority in the contract with the second decision after 40 years because it becomes invaluable to invest in one such facility. I think there's a lot more to talk about here than the human questions that we've been talking about here. Oversight has been introduced, this Law introduces control over concessions and introduces inspection supervision to be managed by the Civil Aviation Agency and I think it is a good solution. I'd also like to say some numbers. In particular, Zagreb Airport had a traffic traffic of slightly more than 2 million passengers last year. It will certainly become a regional centre and a port to make transfers, congestion for the rest of the world, and it will probably get a lot more passengers and I believe that there are some analyses but this Law did not foresee it and will certainly be talked about when the concession is awarded. The Dubrovnik airport this year had 13.5% more traffic and had a million and 270 thousand passengers. Split airport, you know who Dubrovnik is gravitating and who is Split. Split had a million 220 thousand passengers, so Dubrovnik had 50 thousand more passengers, which is not the data ignored. In any case, I would like to say that the law says that this is good of interest for the Republic of Croatia, then I confirm this information that it is good for the Republic of Croatia and I believe that through the tender, the best concessionaire who can invest significant assets in the airport and which will significantly activate what I said at the beginning and the construction operation that I believe, collective contracts I believe will provide these airport employees with their status, that the concession will resolve that employees pass through the other owner, i.e. the concessionaire, and I want to ask you to talk about this much wider, that we understand that this is the question of the region and that it is not a question of narrow minority relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66586	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first is the distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues of Shuica, you have said, if necessary, that airport investments but should be noted that every investment requires planning and that planning is a process. And that each process has its own steps, and the first step in the planning process is to assess the environment and assess its own strengths and weaknesses. And what its own forces were in Zagreb Airport, shows the best situation in the account that it was only worth 25 million kuna for the investment. But no wonder the director took more care of his hair than the company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66588	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66589	Dear colleague, surely you know, you mentioned that we are talking about... an analysis, and that is most important, however, this Law does not go so far but obviously the Government had these assumptions when it proposed this law at all and I am convinced that they have it safely in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but first of all we have to pass the Law in order to be able to talk about the investment, I believe that this will come as early as this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66590	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed representative Kruno Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I totally agree with my colleague that there is a far greater perspective at Zagreb airport, a better perspective, I suppose, and much better than we expect, because finally Zagreb must become something more than a city with a provincial airport. The only thing that got me worried about this whole story, this HNS resort, is why it got worried, because no one knows better than they do, which means that word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66592	Thank you. The reply to the replica is appreciated. No, I don't. He's giving up. Thank you very much. We're moving on with the debate. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66593	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we have heard a lot of local topics or topics related to the airports themselves through the debate on this law, and I will look back on the law itself. We know that the airport is open to public air traffic, and it consists of certain areas with operational surfaces, facilities, facilities, installations, installations, equipment designed for movement, take-off, landing and stay of aircraft, and accept and dispatch aircraft, passengers, luggage, goods, things and mail. Airports are of interest to the Republic of Croatia registered as companies and we have 7 of them in Zagreb, Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, Rijeka, Pula and Osijek. The National Journal of 19/98 Airport Act. The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and is not compatible with the internal market. The same law has made our airport legal entities, i.e. companies whose core capital is part of the Republic of Croatia, the county and local self-government units in which the airport is located. The amendments and additions to the Airport Act will be brought into line with the Law on concessions since it is provided that airports may be awarded in a concession either for construction or for the management of the same. It is also important for that purpose to have a legal basis in the Airport Act. Therefore, after the adoption of this law, concessions for airports may be granted. This law also complies with the Air Transport Act. Therefore, the adoption of this law of the same provision will be brought into line with the provisions of the applicable rules in the field of air traffic as well as the Law on concessions. This will regulate areas which are either not regulated or which are not properly regulated and in conformity with the applicable regulations and, above all, with the possibility of awarding concessions to airports in accordance with the Law on concessions, the National Journal of 125/08. The concession for the airport is considered a concession for works or concessions for public services. The concession for the airport shall be given for no longer than 40 years. Preparations of concession actions under the order of the grantor shall be carried out by the Ministry of Civil Protection Transport in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing concessions, and the concession procedure shall be laid down by the Ministry in accordance with the provisions of the Law on concessions and the decision to select the most favourable bidder in the concession procedure shall be made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a concession provider on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. The revenue for the concession is the State budget and is shared between the state and units of local and regional (regional) self-government, by exchanging in their share in the ownership of the airport, i.e. the exchange in their share in the core capital of the company. Article 9th of this Act determines the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the construction of airports and the procedure for the exemption in case of need has been prescribed, and through today's debates we have seen very much that this article is important. A new Article 9j shall be laid down by the procedure of entry into the property of the property. This proposal for a law proposes the harmonisation of the Airport Act with the Law on concessions in order to provide for the possibility of concessions for the construction and management of the airport, the time of concession, the powers and the procedure for granting a concession. Of course we support the adoption of this law and my colleagues are not here, Beussus, so I would say if indeed in Velika Gorica it would be a problem to expand the airport in the city of Slunj there is room for both the airport and the population that would possibly be threatened in Velika Gorica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66594	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66595	An esteemed colleague of yours in your discussion reads the reasoning of the government's laws. I'd just like to warn you that the MPs are in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66596	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66597	So here I was referring to the bill that we need to pass, and through the debate, I looked back at what we heard in the previous debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66598	Well, it's not the only one, I have to tell you, a lot of them read what's explained just change the order of words and stuff. Let's move on with the debate, and we'll have our guest, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66599	Thank you very much. Speaking of a principled man, it is hardly possible to have any objection to this proposed law. The concession is really the best form of funding. The ownership structure does not change, the concession has a period of duration, fresh capital comes, the value of what the concessionary invests and everything is ideal. And a man would really have to take this bill with enthusiasm if the secretary of state in his explanation adopted here said here here the Rijeka Airport on the island of Krk is getting less and less aircraft, there's less traffic, it's falling, we don't have money to invest in it, there's no big perspective, we need a concessionary, we have interested concessionaries, let's give them the opportunity to invest in the Rijeka Airport to rebuild that airport, to increase traffic, and eventually to make money, they'll increase the number of employees, we'll all benefit. However, the secretary of state has removed any doubt in his opening statement on why the law is proposed. He said that here, because of the Zagreb Airport. Now, even that man shouldn't have any objections. If the Government has decided that the concession is the best form to restore, increase, improve Zagreb Airport, if it has made the decision on the basis of studies, if it is convinced that this is the best path, there is no reason not to support the Government, there is really no reason. However, we do not know from the secretary of state that there were different doubts and different studies showing different paths. One of the studies says, for example, that Zagreb Airport is self-sustainable. She got 25 million kuna. She's making money. The Zagreb airport looks good. She's got a thousand hundred employees. And one of the studies shows that self-financing is the best way to Zagreb Airport. We heard she's got a great bonus. The government can guarantee some kind of loan to be raised so that the current owners who will remain owners when they are given in a concession of course, that the current owners give the Republic of Croatia, the city of Zagreb, Zagreb County, Velika Gorica remain so, while Zagreb Airport increases, edits, modernizes and equipment without concession. That's supposed to be one study showing. That's what the Secretary of State is talking about. Maybe there's another study that says no, that road's not good, the best way is this concession, but we don't know that. It's not in the accompanying materials. There's only this brief explanation that my colleague just read here, so now you've all heard it. We have to pass the law and we have to take responsibility. Gladly, dear heart, cheerful, happy would vote for the law if someone would convince me why one study is better than another. What was the government doing, on what basis does this law propose? He doesn't really have to be bad by himself. Whether it is a decision to make Zagreb Airport a regional airport, a regional airport, as counterpart Shuica says. Okay, okay, that's one sensible decision, let's make that regional port, why not. Why would Zagreb have such a provincial, unsettled port. There's no reason to get anyone to do that... But we don't have any inputs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Experts say that to raise traffic for three million passengers by 2030 because that there will be no more, there will be no more, it will only be enough to expand this terminal. So we have several concepts, and here as representatives we don't have enough input data to make a quality decision, a reasonable decision... , to do our best for both Zagreb and that airport and for those employees. [[The speaker speaks Latin, he doesn't understand.]] Look out there are 1100 employees, these people are afraid, don't be surprised that they are afraid, there are people in Croatia who have very serious reasons to be afraid whenever someone mentions foreign investment and the arrival of a new manager. Too often, they experienced bitter fate, lost their jobs, and too often their activity was destroyed. You know, let's not expect too much trust from them; they are cautious, they fear, they fear for themselves, so that's understandable. And we should convince them, there's not a few of them, there's 1100 of them. They should be assured that their jobs will remain preserved when the concessionaire arrives, that the concessionary will open additional jobs and that their existences will not be compromised, that collective agreements they have signed will be respected. If I had read that in this bill of law, all these open questions that are legitimate, it would have been easier for me to make a decision. Principleally, of course, I don't mind. But specifically, for this particular case, too few answers, too few convincing arguments, too few calming tones. This law comes from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, an additional reason for caution. Too many unpleasant things have come from that ministry, too much, and there's every reasonable one. So that intelligence requires being cautious, careful of anything that comes from that ministry. Therefore, I expect at least in your final address after this individual discussion of further arguments, convincing arguments, calculations, studies. Convince us State Secretary, assure us that this is good for both the airport and above all for the 1100 people who work there.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66600	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 15.55 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. Therefore, there is no more. It's the Honorable representative Mirela Holy's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66601	Thank you, Your Honor. So my debate will probably be on the trail of what counterpart Nenad Stazic just said. My first question is actually why it waited two years for this law to be brought into line with the Law on concessions opening opportunities and for airports to be placed in a concession. And I think that this is actually a fundamental question because if the legislator was in the interest of creating a certain framework that would also be able to pass certain rules that would apply to everything then he should have done so long ago, that is, two years ago and when the Law on concessions was finally passed in the Croatian Parliament. I am afraid that this law, just like the Law on the electricity market that we discussed yesterday in the Assembly, is not adopted in order to mean establishing such a good system, an orderly framework with a set of rules that apply equally to all interested entities. Unfortunately, in our case laws are often passed at a time of need or according to the direction of a particular investor or an interested entity. Yesterday's law was written according to TLM's design, and today, according to a set of interested entities for Zagreb airport. It has absolutely no doubt, and in the end you, too, are state secretaries in a certain way and confirmed in your opening speech. I think it's a very dangerous practice and a very dimming environment for all those investors who don't have such good reapers at the top of the government. This is exactly the opposite of creating a positive entrepreneurial climate that is so often spoken of, not only in the context of economic circles but also in this Parliament. Unfortunately, those entities that should fight the most to create a positive business climate in Croatia, which is the Croatian Association of Employers and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, often advocate the interests of precisely particular investors, and do not advocate the creation of an entrepreneurial climate in which bureaucracy will not be an obstacle and an obstacle to good business projects, in which rules will be the same and apply to all in an equal manner regardless of whether it is big or small investors or interested entities. I'm afraid, and I think this law confirms it as well as yesterday's law that we discussed, and which I mentioned earlier, they say that we are still very, very far from creating such positive entrepreneurial practices and entrepreneurial climates, and unfortunately it's not any optimistic news for all of us because it means that we are going to be immersed in the current not-so-light economic forecast for a very long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66602	Thank you. And we still have one application for a hearing, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. To be honest, listening to these discussions, I ask myself whether we Parliamentarians really support the entrepreneurial climate in the Republic of Croatia. One law that allows, a completely new model of funding, a process to be implemented, a concession tender, etc., is public transparent and international. So what about something that hasn't happened that's going to happen anyway, and when it does, then we're going to have a declaration that entrepreneurs should come, that foreign investors should come. It is likely that someone estimated that the airport from its traffic and business could hardly finance such an investment. And perhaps, I will agree there with my colleague Stazic, there may be some numbering indicators that would make it easier for MPs to think about the law, but, frankly, the secretary of state will probably say that in his final part, when you look at how much traffic Croatio airlines works in Zagreb Airport, then you will see that they are practically tied to the umbilical cord and that Croatia airports which are unfortunately in financial problems because some lines that are outside the tourist season are invaluable, we cannot leave Dubrovnik at this point cut off from the world. If it wasn't for Croatia's airports, Dubrovnik would be cut off from the world. The question also arises, does anyone want to invest in the airport through a concession, whether it will be 50, 300, 350, 150 we cannot know at this point how many euros, because it will show a public tender. The second thing, whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Head of the airport will give everything in the concession or some things that are of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia will remain in the practical jurisdiction of the airport and that is the question that I would like to ask here today because I probably don't have information, that is crucial, it is essential that the entire airport and all, not to the concessionaries, there are things that are of strategic interest and that simply must remain in the management of the Croatian State, through the main people of the airport. I'm talking about local self-government units taking part, so let's see who owns it, whether at the moment these three units of local self-government are able to single out these funds and finance this project, means the state 55, the city of Zagreb 35, Zagreb County 5 and Velika Gorica 5. So I think what the situation is in the budget of the city of Zagreb and in the budget of Velika Gorica I doubt that the city of Zagreb could co-finance 35% of the airport. However, one question that has not been opened or spoken of here today, and I think that this is the key thing about this Law, that every concessionaire who enters that concession, who invests his money, will be in his interest to bring new operators, to bring new companies to Zagreb. We are saying that we are a tourist country, it is in our interest to connect with some destinations that are very interested in coming to Zagreb, to come to Croatia and to make Zagreb practically an air bridge towards Europe. Let's look at it that way and it's not true that 800 or 1100 people working at the airport are scared. No, they're scared of what's gonna happen if nothing is done and because of that inaction and because someone thought that they could do something with their own resources that story has spread all these years and brought us into the situation that led us to it. And when we talk, I have to go back to what I started. So does everything in this country that it does have to be characterized by the word thief. Is it everything? That's not what you guys said, Holly. That's what someone else said. And the same other who said he was fighting hands and feet, three years ago he filed a criminal complaint against counterpart Dropulić that no access road to the Homeland Bridge – Velika Gorica, which heart to enter into that new airport. This can be seen, it is not my invention, it can be seen, therefore against the connected road to the Homeland Bridge, because if an airport is built and you do not make that road you cannot communicate, it is simply impossible to communicate from Zagreb towards the airport. So, the same story just this time isn't the road, it's the airport. So, it is evident that in Croatia, what is market-interesting, where we can get some new funding models, should be introduced by those who know how to work it, who may better manage it, who will bring some new users to it and who we will all benefit from eventually. Because look, if that airport has more traffic, more people will be employed, the city of Velika Gorica and the City of Zagreb will benefit from it, because people from one city and another will work and pay taxes and taxes in that city where they are coming from, and they will certainly have a Croatian state. Why don't you look at it that way. Well, look to me up until a few years ago, we didn't have a concession register at all, and today from some cities it's impossible to get information about concession contracts, but the concession might be the oldest form to give someone something of your own, to manage it, why? Because he has more knowledge than you do, he has more opportunities and he manages it better. That's what all the countries of the world have. But it is ours in the Parliament, to watch out for that public tender to be conducted in accordance with all the best regulations. That's why what counterpart Dropulic said was called a tender for the company to hold a tender for the concession. Because it's obviously people who work at the airport, with all due respect to them, who don't have the knowledge to do it in quality, then it's better to take the others who do it. Another thing, when we talk about it let's see how many world airports are at this point in such a form of concession, are some countries that are much richer, that have much more than our money, so crazy that they didn't want to put their money in there but they gave it to someone in the concession, let's look at it that way. Or let's look another way, if this turns out to be one successful example, that's how we can solve a series of problems in the Republic of Croatia for which we're realistically speaking enough money at this point. Because let's not talk about our external debt is that much and so much, and when we talk about having to invest, you can't do one without the other. So you have to put yourself in charge so we can do something. Perhaps the model of a public private partnership, perhaps joint ventures, is all that might solve some problems in the future. And for those of us here and for the Croatian government, it should be in the interest to preserve and retain national wealth, to do what is of national interest and simply cannot be given to anyone. And that's how I expected us to discuss this law. So we open up one option, and we need to try all the mechanisms that we have as Parliament's representatives to make it transparent, and I repeat, don't forget when you talk about Zagreb Airport how much traffic, how much traffic it depends on Croatia's airlines, how much Croatia's airline pays tomorrow when the concession comes, when some new operators may come in, the cost of using services in the airport will be lower. Perhaps the cost of Croatia's airlines will be lower and perhaps the balance sheet of Croatia's airlines will be different. Let's watch it that way. Let's see if there's a new 500, 600 or more people working there. And that's why colleagues and colleagues think that around this kind of crucial law where we're opening space for something new we need to be unique, we need to warn that maybe some things might have happened. But I think we should just support this kind of thing. Because if the airport could be made out of its own resources, I think it would be done. Take just for example, let's say it costs, I'm saying one digit this size is 250, 300 million euros, and you take it as a credit for 10 years at an interest rate of 6 or 7%. From where Zagreb airport annually, 40m euros to repay the loan. It's just an impossible story. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues I will surely support this law as the Great One. I'm not afraid of evicting 5,000 people because there's simply no combination at this point for building another runway. And even if another runway was built, 5,000 people wouldn't move, because there aren't so many people living in that whole county. But scaring people for opening new jobs with the loss of this or that at least is not good. And this is just another indicator that some do not care what is going to be done in Croatia, but the problem is if someone else does. I won't have anything to complain about tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66604	Thank you. And now we have two, four, five replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66605	That's what I expected.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66606	First of all, she's a respected representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, I agree with you. Instead of agreeing on some of the most important issues, which is how to attract investors in the Republic of Croatia, how to encourage them here from this assembly, and not speak words of destruction and mistrust in their own country, in their own laws. So, in this assembly, it can be dimming for investors we want to come to the Republic of Croatia. Here we are constantly talking about only Zagreb Airport or Dance. I will only remind myself that since 1998 all airports in the Republic of Croatia have been declared good. So they're in equal status. But Zagreb Airport is obvious because of what appeared in the media and what is good if there will be a potential 300 million euros that could be invested, which could also create new jobs. So to create new values might also be the reason we heard it in this assembly today and some other thinking. So destruction and pessimism will not be an invitation to those we want to open the door to investment in Croatia. And so, if there are other airports in Europe, in the world given in the concession, for example in Paris, in Frankfurt I see no reason why we around every law that we make a saw or want to make a saw upside down for something that is good we want to convince someone that it's bad and we send a call in fact, or you don't come to Croatia, so we don't believe it ourselves. So, I'm not a supporter of that. He was surprised that his colleague Stazic had said something to him at his presentation. Yeah, and I think that's how it should be in the assembly more than once. We speak an encouraging dictionary. If something's right, let's say something's right. If it's not good, let's just say it's not good, let's put together proposals and give Croatia a chance to invest. And to see the vice president, thank you very much. You're very kind to let me finish. And give investors a chance to invest in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66608	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66609	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, climate, entrepreneurship climate, Croatia as a country worth investing in, I think we should all say that. Today we talked here in this way about the Zagreb Airport. We could, tomorrow we might be talking about this port of Rijeka, which at this point has a great interest in the world. But concession or some other form, therefore, the increase in traffic in Rijeka port automatically means the great interest of investors to build the Rijeka – Zagreb – Botovo railway. Because every good job pulls a new infrastructure project and we have to look at it that way. Because if we don't look at it that way at times when there's an economic crisis, when there's not enough money, when we all like to yell at how high our deficit is when the state's in the position it is. There's money in the world market, and now they need to be drawn in another way. And I think this is exactly the model. I'm just saying, let's not spit on our own. There will be time, there will be an election campaign. We'll be able to bang on each other. But I repeat, and here I agree with all my colleagues, and we should be very careful not to let any kind of maneuver happen. And I think we must all be unique here. Because after all, that's what we're supposed to do, and that's why we're elected to this high house.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66610	Thank you. Replica number two, distinguished representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66611	Dear colleague Shuker, I have decided to rephrase to you since you referred in your presentation to the presentation of fellow Stazic and mine. I have the impression that you didn't listen very well and very carefully to what my colleague Stazic and I were saying. Because we haven't said at any time that the SDP club or we personally won't accept this bill. As much as I could sign almost everything you said, there's just a question being asked if it's really true that it's in the interest to create a certain positive entrepreneurship climate and open a space for new investments which is why this law was not passed two years ago. Because there is really one question as to whether laws are passed in Croatia at the exact moment when it corresponds to certain interests, interested entities and the like. Well, I would also like the secretary of state to answer why we didn't discuss this law two years ago when the concession law was passed, because then I could believe that it is really in our interest to create a positive environment, one framework of rules for all those who will really be interested in concessionaries, investors, interested entities. So this is how I think leaving one of the same rather large space to doubt whether it's really such an interest or whether it's an interest to help someone out a little bit and push them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66612	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I wasn't talking about you and my colleague, Holy. In fact, I've given my fellow Trackman the right to some things. I think from my discussion, I've agreed to some of the things you've been saying. You know the part about who he went to. So why not two years ago? Well, because today, a large part of the discussion was based on a project that someone was pushing for, and for which there was simply no financial justification. It was impossible to finance. So all financial institutions said it would be very difficult to finance. So I said at the beginning of my presentation that this law is talking about some new funding models for certain projects in the Republic of Croatia. I also said that we should very much control this job to be transparent, but if we're going to say that it's set up for someone, then what kind of message we're sending to the world, we've called an international tender tender competition, for the company that's going to make the tender, based on which to define the exact conditions for the concession, I also said that the government still has to decide whether one part of that airport activity, that part of it is likely to stand, take off, take off the runway under its control from national interests, security, are ultimately located near and part of Croatian aviation, so these are the things that the government has to make a decision. But the key thing is to make the tender clear and transparent, that anyone who makes an offer knows what the offer is for, and not that tomorrow can happen to someone say it was in the tender it was like this or it wasn't like that, as unfortunately it was during your coalition government and later. So let's not pull it out now. I'm willing to watch what happens tomorrow. And I say at no time did my debate go to either you or my colleague, because I know exactly what you said. However, if there were more data, maybe some things might look different, but I think this is the thing that we need to support, and I think this is the concept where we'd probably be, I don't think there's any reason for SDP and HDZ to agree that that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66614	Thank you very much. We have a further replica, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66615	You're telling your colleague Shuker why you should pre-warn something that didn't happen, and does everything have to be declared a crime? There's a fellow Shuker as far as we got two years later, after two terms of this government, that really everything must be put under... Don't say it wasn't pre-warned. [[You don't understand.]] So remember how many times we were two years ago, three years ago we warned that building highways and roads in Croatia is a crime. You told us that we were commies, that we were accusing, that we were judging, that now it turned out to be. Now there's a building harmony, and now this has turned out. So we're warning, we've come all this way to smoke cold. Understand that people smoke cold after two terms of this government. You understand them. Look, you say a thousand people aren't scared. Today I'm talking to representatives of the Zagreb airport union, they're scared, a thousand 100 people are scared for their destiny. I'm not saying something bad's gonna happen to them, I'm not saying. I wish all this was clean, if you were right. I wish I did. So that instead of a thousand hundred people, when all this is realized, there are 3,000 people doing it. No one happier than me. And that they have twice as much pay as they have today. But these people are scared, you understand them. There have been too many negative experiences. Especially when it comes to investment. It's invested, then it's seen that five paints are painted the same tunnel, and it's being invested, it's being built. Let's not do that. You mentioned Croatia Airlines. Croatia Airlines currently owes something to the Zagreb airport. When a concessionist comes or pays, or I'm gonna make you go bankrupt. It's not a concessionaire who's going to owe him any debts. And for these two years, allow me just one more sentence, because the question has been asked to the secretary of state, which I forgot. Why is there no vaccination in this law? Why does this law take place in the People's Journal on the day of its publication? So what's the emergency? Here's a colleague of mine who said why we didn't do it two years ago, and now we don't have eight days of normal vaccination time, but it's quite unusual.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66616	Thank you very much. Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66617	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazic, I could also begin to list some things, but I don't think it's going to get us anywhere together. We can tell each other as much as we want, but we also have to believe in the rule of law, and when it's a powerful verdict that we can talk about some things. The second thing, fellow Stazic, you know well that when a state or city starts a company, and when some decisions are made by the company, it does some sort of business for the benefit of the citizens, and it is known that the loss will be achieved then the owner must cover that loss in a certain way. Therefore, Croatia Airlines must be out of the tourist season flying some lines that question whether they have economic justification. Therefore, given that the state will not be burdened with certain things, Croatia Airlines will be able to support it, in accordance with the Support Act, so nothing below the grain, because in the meantime we and the Support Act have in line with European legislation, and we want Croatia Airlines to have so many lines to Dubrovnik, so many lines to Pula, so many and so many lines to what I know of Split, if it achieves a loss it will cover the state. So that's because this story didn't pay for this or that, so that's the story that's leading us to a mess, and that's exactly what we want to stop. Because if someone doesn't pay someone for this or for telling them what they're doing, that's exactly what fellow Stazic is talking about, which brings us in a position to make a marifetteluk. That's what we want to get away from. We want to get away from it, because you just said something like this, and at the same time you said something was going on one way or another. So I think we'll meet again at that goal. There's no need to forgive anyone. A clean bill must be, no matter who owns it. And when we start to think of it that way, when you see it transparently through the budget, it'll be easier for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66618	Thank you. And now we have a replica, the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66619	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker, I can't correct any false allegations, but that is, you have spoken the truth. And the truth was they'd be cut off in Dubrovnik if it weren't for the airport. That's right. We don't have a highway, we don't have a fast road. That's true, because that truth is visible from the highway report. That truth is visible from the budget. This truth is visible from the crime that was committed in the highways, because if it hadn't been for that, there would have been other solutions than the Dubrovnik airport. But yesterday, Mrs Kosor told us, she made great promises for Dubrovnik, and that this is ongoing, that it will be, but also means this infrastructure, but she also stressed that ways are being found. At that time, the foundation stone on the Ossuary is covered, it's grown with weed, and I'm afraid we'll be able to build a foundation stone museum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66620	Thank you. I let you talk all the way, but it really has nothing to do with the subject. I'm sorry, let's not do this like that. Let's stick to the subject. Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was glad to be able to replicate with my colleague Holly and colleague Stazic, because we exchanged opinions that basically lead in the same direction. I don't understand why you needed this discussion. Now I'll answer you the same way. Maybe if you hadn't traded the city of Dubrovnik the way it is. Maybe if you hadn't traded with some other countries, maybe if you'd supported your strength with building the Peljega Bridge, maybe this highway story would have been different. My colleague, I don't think a debate like this is going to get us anywhere. It's not SDP or HDZ. So, I'm sorry, but I just answered you to see what that ugly look looks like. Me and my colleague Stazic had a fight not once in these ten years, but I also think that the debate could lead to something good that could be consistent. So I won't replicate it anymore, but I had to tell you this for a reason to see that every story has two ends and that each beating has two ends. So we can extract as much as we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66622	Thank you. And ends this series of replicas, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke nicely of creating a favourable entrepreneurial climate, and you said very clearly that inaction is the most dangerous. And the old Chinese proverb says that if you don't want to do something, you'll find a reason not to. It seems to me that our colleagues on the left always find some reason that it's not this or that it's not right. But let's let it go, maybe that's the point of opposition, but one thing is, let's put it aside, but one thing that's where it gets dangerous, when it's said to create those favourable conditions that have garners. It's very ugly to hear and very dangerous. I heard it from the debate. It's very ugly and dangerous for those who come. I think that's very clear. And secondly, one colleague goes even further, he would like to see this or that in law. It's not the law of the literary office, nor the greetings, wishes and messages. The law is the creation of a framework for investors to come, to create optimism, not to scare people and those who are possibly about work or potential investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66624	Thank you very much. Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66625	Thank you very much, colleague Milinkovic. The worst thing would be to keep it the way it is now. I think that would be the biggest tragedy for all of us. And the debate is unfortunately going that way, no. Therefore, counterpart Milinkovic, some are obviously in the interest of doing nothing. On that system as soon as that burns. As a party, however, we have a different slogan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66626	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the debate. Does the proposaler's representative want final? Yeah. Dear Daniel Mileta, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66627	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. ... Vice President of the Parliament, I apologize. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Maybe that's it, and I don't have the decency to be here long enough, so maybe that's why I made a mistake in the title. I don't know if I said at first that we had accepted the amendment of the Assembly Committee on Legislatives, so let's confirm that. Now, I would like to ask a few specific questions that my colleague Stazic, or parliamentary representative Stazic and Parliament representative Holly, referred to on behalf of the Secretary of State. The first question was, why wait two years? For 2 years, because the existing law was considered to cover the concession law sufficiently well enough to cover the area of concessions in general and would be good enough when one day the airports were placed in concessions. In the summer of this year, the government's decision was made to build a new airport passenger terminal in Zagreb on the principle of concession. When the commission was established, a step further found that it might not be good only by the concession law, or by its general parts, to move further, so that this would not be transparent enough, so that it would open spaces for some additional interpretations and opinions. And we just wanted to avoid it. That's why this law went now, not two years ago. So it went just one step further. Why is it an emergency procedure, so why is it not an 8-day deadline but effective on the day of its publication in "The People's Newspaper"? Because the dictionaries of project managers take this step, so the adoption of this law is on a critical path. So it's a project manager's term and nothing is critical, where it's literally waiting for this law to be passed in practice in the first publication, or prequalification contest. That's why it's going, these eight days it's considered time is money, we want some investors to start the project as soon as possible, and we simply went out of this great desire to go on the day of entry into force, not 8 days after the announcement. And that's mostly all about the subject of this law. A lot of time has been spent here on the business of the Zagreb Airport company, which I believe, my personal opinion is that it may not be a very topic for this debate here because the decision to go by concession taken in summer, here opens up the possibility as Parliament's counsel Schuker said for the new airport financing model. Therefore, the development and management of airports. So it's just a new model of financing. And being a trigger to do this now by emergency procedure and to bring this fast is Zagreb Airport, which is free to say maybe another pair of shoes. This law covers the Rijeka Airport as well where there has been a lot of hearing from the mouth of local self-government lately about wanting to follow that model, according to the concession model, and something to do with Rijeka Airport. As far as I'm concerned, everything I've said so far is actually about this law. What I can speak further can be related exclusively to the company Airport Zagreb d.o.o. or Croatian Airlines d.d. I don't know how much of a theme that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66628	It's not a topic and please talk about the law you're here for.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66629	But I stress that because a good part of the parliamentary debate was spent precisely on the business of certain companies, and not on the very purpose of this law, or part of it relating to the new model of airport financing. As Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, I am available to all parliamentary representatives who have issues in the area of general transport, especially air transport in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the business of companies, and this project which was the main trigger to go by quick procedure. So, I never said that this is just and exclusively for the purpose of the Zagreb Airport but that it has accelerated with this for the project of a new airport terminal in Zagreb. Well, I guess I've written everything down and said. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66630	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66631	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Airport Act, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 702. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Airports. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 98 votes in favour, no abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66632	I now propose that point 8, point 9, point 10 and point 12 is about the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol, in practice not to read all the titles is the same theme. Do any of the present here have any objection to that unification? There isn't. So I'm realizing that we've united those four points. Let's keep working, and that's eight. Proposal for a Law confirming the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 684 8. Proposal for a Law confirming the first additional protocol with the general rules of the World Postal Union, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 685 8. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Eighth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 686 12. Proposal for a Law confirming the postal payment services agreement, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 687 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that these legislative proposals be discussed in an emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Daniel Mileta State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66633	So here I am again. At the last World Postage Congress in Geneva in 2008, four acts of the World Postal Union were adopted and these are exactly 4 acts that the esteemed Vice-President of the Parliament and read, and it confirmed those acts, or ratified them so that the Republic of Croatia could become party to these international contracts. The World Postal Union was founded in 1874 with the aim of ensuring the principle of free circulation of postal mail and removing borders and obstacles that prevented the course and growth of international postal traffic. The World Postal Union became a specialised UN institution in 1948, its headquarters in Bern, Switzerland, and today it numbers 191 members, and the Republic of Croatia became a full member of the Union on 20 July 1992. Today, the World Postal Union is the main forum for the cooperation of all postal sector associates with the role of consulting, intermediating, connecting, and providing technical assistance as well as with the task of laying down rules for international postal exchange, making recommendations to promote the development of postal transport and improving the quality of postal services. The fundamental acts of the World Postal Union as their amendments and additions are being won at the World Postal Congress, which practically represents the Supreme Body of the World Postal Union and where all representatives of all Member States are authorised every 4 years. We are just 4 acts of the World Postal Union ahead of you and that the Republic of Croatia could become party to these international political agreements in accordance with Article 141. The Constitution needs the Assembly to confirm these four contracts. I can briefly say about each of those contracts. The first is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol. The World Postal Convention for the Final Protocol is one of the fundamental international legal instruments of the World Postal Union which is binding on all Member States. The World Postal Convention shall contain rules applicable and applicable to all international postal services as well as provisions relating to services for written consignments and postal packages. The final protocol to the World Postal Convention contains reserves on that international contract. Of the newspapers that were implemented there is the introduction of new concepts of which the most significant concept is the appointment of an operator. There is a complement to the provisions of access to domestic services and this is a complement to the provisions on terminal compensation. As regards the draft draft Law on Confirmation of the first Additional Protocol, in addition to the general rules of the World Postal Union, it contains provisions that ensure the application of the Constitution of the World Postal Union and the work of the Union itself and that no reserve on those rules can be placed there. Of some changes and additions, the most important ones are some newspaper on the work of the World Postal Congress, the composition of the work and meetings of the board of directors, so some procedure. At the obligations of the Director-General of the International Office, to the arbitration procedure, to determine and regulate the costs of the Union and the procedures for submitting the proposal to the World Postal Congress. As for the third, it is a draft proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Eighth Additional Protocol under the Constitution of the World Postal Union. The Constitution is that it is also a logically basic act of the World Postal Union, which contains all the fundamental rules of the Union. You can't put any reserves on it either. Of the most significant changes and additions that lie ahead, there are also provisions on arbitration, there are provisions on the acts of the World Postal Union and the provisions on the accession of the World Postal Union. Finally, the draft Act on Confirmation of the Postal Payment Services Agreement. The 2008 agreement that's in front of you. It shall ensure the implementation of a secure and accessible postal payment service adapted to the maximum number of users on the basis of a system enabling the interoperability of networks of designated operators. Under this Agreement, the appointed operators shall take measures to meet their obligations resulting from domestic and international legislation, which relate to the prevention of money laundering, the non-financing of terrorism and financial crime. The designated operators shall inform the competent national authorities of suspicious transactions in accordance with this draft. And that would mostly be that, indicating that, in accordance with Article 141 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The constitution proposes that this international contract, namely these four international agreements, be confirmed by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66634	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? As far as I can tell, there are no interested committees. Okay. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66635	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Four international agreements are before us, the proposal for a law of the World Postal Union, which, as such, would become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, need to pass the envisaged legal procedure in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The secretary of state said why these bills were made. In fact, the Republic of Croatia is a signator of several international agreements of the World Postal Union. In line with some changes, amendments and additions to the World Postal Convention, these four international agreements are before us, in particular the confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol, the confirmation of the first additional protocol for the general rules of the World Postal Union, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Eighth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Postage Payment Services. Since there is a special interest of the Republic of Croatia in making those international agreements as soon as possible part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia there is therefore a justification that these international agreements, i.e. these draft laws, are adopted by means of an urgent procedure here in the Croatian Parliament. I wouldn't repeat what Mr. Secretary of State said about what these changes and additions are because we heard in his presentation. It is important that these international agreements of the World Postal Union, since we've been since '92. The signatories of the International Agreement on the World Postal Union consisting of 191 countries of the world and the Republic of Croatia therefore have an obligation to confirm these international agreements. And as I have said and as we have heard from the Secretary of State, there is a need for these amendments, amendments and additions of the laws and the Constitution of the World Postal Union to become as soon as possible and part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. All proposed proposals for the law are accepted by the Croatian Democratic Community club and will vote for its adoption in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66636	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here, since the Secretary of State gave us a comprehensive opening statement with all the essential elements of these four laws, I'll just say that the HNS Club, HSU, will accept all four proposals, but I'll ask you something. In all four draft laws, it shall enter into force on 1 January 2010. What's happening here today is January 27, 2011 and it's confusing. The problem is said the same in documents addressed in Geneva in 2008. Which has waited until today, and I would like to ask for an explanation of this information in all four copies of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66638	Thank you. That's where we closed the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On the bench we got a set of laws, or four laws adopted at the Union Congress in Geneva, which are actually dealing with postal issues and I think it's very good to go in the package for efficiency. These are the Law attesting the World Postal Convention, the Law confirming the First Additional Protocol under the General Rules of the World Postage Agency, the Law on Confirmation of the Eightth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union and the Law on Confirmation of the Postal Payment Services Agreement. It is common to all four drafts of the law, that given the nature of the process of confirming international contracts, which the state also formally expresses its willingness to be related to the problem in question. But also at this stage, since it is impossible to change the text, I think it is important to stress that in 1992, the Republic of Croatia has passed its accession and fundamental acts with the Director-General of the International Office, and since 1992, a full member. Thus, the World Postal Union was established in 1874 with the aim of developing communication between countries, with the aim of providing postal services efficiently and contributing to achieving the objectives of international cooperation in the cultural, social and economic fields. With this proposal for a law, the World Postal Convention introduces provisions with the final protocol, and the most important thing is the introduction of new concepts, amendments and additions to existing concepts, the addition of provisions on illicit shipments and the addition of provisions on access to domestic services and the addition of provisions on terminal compensation. As the most important term being introduced, it is called an operator. The designated operator may be any government or non-governmental entity officially appointed by a Member State in order to carry out postal traffic and fulfil the relevant obligations arising from Union acts in its territory. This proposal complements the provisions on illicit shipments, as a prohibition of an object which, by its natural packaging, thus prohibits explosive items, etc. The additions to the provisions in access to domestic services are prescribed that each designated operator is obliged to allow other operators of all postage, provisions and conditions offered in domestic transport under the same conditions. In addition, the designated operator maintains in the transitional system may prevent other operators from applying domestic conditions and thus to a limited number on a mutual basis during the two-year trial period. The part about terminal charges is based on the opening of service quality in the country of destination. The Postal Operations Council shall be empowered to modify the amounts of compensation to encourage participation in the monitoring system and to award appointed operators for the achievement of the quality objectives set as may be determined by penalties in the event of insufficient quality. After all that is said and taking into account the importance of amending the World Postal Convention, I believe it is the interest of the Republic of Croatia to become the party of this international and the party of all four of these laws that we are adopting today. That's why I'm going to support the passing of these laws by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66640	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, since we have united these four bill proposals, I will also try not to repeat myself, and perhaps just a few of the specifics that I think is important, and of course all four of these laws will need to be supported, that it is necessary. Therefore, in this first proposal of the World Postal Convention, I think it is very important to highlight Article 3 which says that Member States are obliged to ensure that all users of services enjoy the right to universal postal services which include the continuous provision of quality basic postal services to all users in the entire territory of the Member States at fair prices. I believe that this is very important, and it also lists provisions for the functioning of postal services from the freedom of transport, ownership of shipments, violations, additional services, new demand technologies and electronic shipments, etc. So it seems to me kind of important. In this additional protocol, with the general rules of the World Post Office, he's not that interesting to the public, so not so much for us, because he's just talking about how the Congress itself works, so I wouldn't really point out anything special. To P.Z. No. 686 of the 8th Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Union here in addition to the amendment and additions of the Constitution may be the most important thing that the State Secretary mentioned in the introduction of new terms as a designated operator. But also amendments and additions to existing concepts, provisions on Union accession, arbitration and similar matters. And this fourth, P.Z. 687. Agreement on postal payment services. This Agreement shall ensure the implementation of a secure and accessible postal payment service adapted to the maximum number of users based on a system enabling the interoperability of networks of designated operators. Therefore, each Member State must provide in its area at least one of the postal payment services or postal order, payment order, payment order or mail transfer. And here I also point out that according to the new technological achievements, the agreement also contains the principle of electronic data exchange. And since the Republic of Croatia really wants to become a party to these international agreements as soon as possible, they should be accepted as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66642	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66643	Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will express my position to support all four proposed laws, and I believe that the proposed laws cover all the provisions that will certainly raise the quality of postal services, and I believe the revenues of domestic operators through the terminal fee and payment of postal services. Since less is already said about laws, I would refer only to Article 3. The World Postal Convention, which states to respect the single postal territory of the Union, shall ensure that all users of services enjoy the right to universal postal services, including the continuous provision of quality basic postal services to all users in the entire national area of the Member States at affordable prices. Perhaps in urban and large areas it is not expressed as much as in smaller or rarely populated environments, especially by introducing new electronic means of communication. The postal offices have reduced the size of the job, thus reducing the size of the job, and some of the post offices are closing, and some are reducing or reducing their working hours. I believe that adopting these laws will allow postal offices or operators to make more significant revenues in order to keep offices, post offices currently operating in small areas, cities and municipalities. And if not that there will be ways and opportunities for the means to ensure their work so as to ensure that, in accordance with Article 3 of that Convention, all of them have equal rights and equal access and postal services. In the belief that it will be held, that it will be realized. So once again, I give full support to the adoption of all four proposed laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66644	Thank you. Final Review State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Daniel Mileta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66645	Thank you very much. So there was one question. It is mentioned on the date of 1.1.2010 when the contract entered into force. Yes, the international treaty came into force in 1.1.2010. But to come in the form of what is now on your bench takes a certain time, you need to take certain steps and that is the only reason why it is now at ratification. Otherwise, Croatia did not have time to ratify this, or these four agreements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66646	Thank you. I am finalising the debate on points 8, 9, 10 and 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66647	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 684. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the World Postal Convention with the Final Protocol. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 97 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66696	We move to the next point - 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 697 Proposer Government. The Authority for the Protection of Competition submitted an earlier binding opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Captain Mario Babic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66697	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me say a few words about public coastal transport. Public transport of passengers and vehicles between Croatian islands and the coast is carried out on 53 lines with 77 ships in 80% of Jadrolinija property. During 2010, 11 million and 500 thousand passengers were transported, and 2 million and 600,000 vehicles. It encourages us to record a slight increase in the number of passengers transported in 2010, and a halted stagnation, i.e. a fall in vehicle traffic. This in some way confirms that in this part of Croatia the crisis is going through or has passed. Currently, Jadrolini operates 88% of traffic, two new ships were built last year, and four new ferry ramps were built. What I particularly want to point out is that in 2010, there were no maritime accidents, no thanks to God were either dead or wounded in public coastal transport, and I also use this opportunity to thank the commanders and crews of Croatian ships. There are two reasons why we have proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Public Coastal Line Transport. The first is compliance with the permit we received from the European Union. By means of a 1992 Council of Europe regulation in the territorial sea of any Member State of the European Union, public coastal transport, or cabotage, may be carried out by all ships of any Member State of the European Union. In the course of the negotiations, we have asked that the Republic of Croatia be delayed for a certain period of time by the application of this regulation, in order to protect the shipowners of Croatian statehood for a while. And indeed we received a delay from the European Union, in a way that cabotage for Croatian state-owned ships is allowed until 31 December 2016. This Decision encourages the European Union as it confirms that if it keeps knocking on the door, if it is justified to demonstrate that the objections are respected. And we have implemented this very decision of the European Union in the proposal to amend and supplement the law. Another reason why we are changing the law is that on 31.3.2011 it was the deadline until the tender for the remaining ferry lines was due. We have not sent out a tender knowingly, in order to implement this decision of the European Union, and another reason to allow the national shipowner Jadrolini to have the exclusiveness of public liner transport, and thus to prepare better when it comes and when the cabotage is opened for all European Union countries. Following this, please accept this amendment to the law, and by the way, I would like to stress that we accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66698	Thank you. Legislative Committee, Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Club, Mr. Attorney Gary Cappelly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66699	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So as the Secretary of State said in his opening statement, a very valuable and important proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the transport of line and occasional coastal maritime transport, so with the final proposal of the law. In fact, at this point, a total of 18 state lines have been concessioned from 56 state lines, of which 14 fast-ships, 3 boat lines and one ferry line, so as we can see, the non-received state lines remained a total of 38. The importance of this law is, in some way, that, which is essentially the implementation of the European Kabotage Regulation, which we have managed to extend the time limit for concessions, protect the domestic shipowner, if we only mention that 88% of traffic on, therefore on a liner transport covers Jadrolini from its 57 ships, which carried nearly 10 million passengers, about 2 and a half thousand vehicles, that in Jadrolinia is about a thousand and 300 seamen and some 300 employees, that Jadrolinia covers 3 international, 28 ferry, 7 catamaranian, 3 shipping lines and one longer coastal, is quite sufficient to say how important this law is, therefore, that it is in some way giving the possibility to our largest national shipowners to prepare for the competition together with the countries of the European Union, which is that this deadline is extended, so that by the end of 2016, it is sufficient to provide evidence that our national ship and the way, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, with the fact, the fact, in fact, the fact, that it will be in fact, in fact, in fact, with the fact, with the fact that it is safe and the fact that in the time of the time of the time of the time that the time that we are in which we go. It is also important to say that the postponement of cabotage for tourist ships until 31.12.2014, and that the only thing that didn't work is cabotage, has not been delayed, but we know that the cabotage is in some way also under concession, so it is in some way protected by the concession it carries out at a certain port. It is also important to say that the provision is in line with the new Financial Responsibility Act adopted by this House and is also in line with that part. It is therefore important to say that the adoption of this law extends the period of award of the concession by 2 years, which determines the obligation of tendering until April 2013 and lays down the time limits for the validity of the contract, and thus in line with the negotiating position. And I believe that there is a need to support this draft law in amendments, therefore, and the additions of the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport with the final bill because it will very much protect the national carrier that we know alone in the most difficult times has sailed on non-resilable lines, we know that today we have lines where we have a daily journey of one or two passengers. We've got ferry lines on which, in the evenings, there's not a single passenger on the road. Therefore, a national shipman should be prepared quality for the competition match at the end of 2016, so on behalf of the HDZ Club, we give full support to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66700	Thank you. SDP club, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP club will support these amendments to the law. Especially as regards our commitments or rights acquired in accession negotiations, especially with regard to concessions, tendering and the like. I would, however, like to say a few words about the state of traffic connection of the island which are actually the most concerned by the whole of this law. So it is very clear that nothing in this world is free of charge, so neither is the standard of the integration of Croatian islands with land or the integration of the island to one another. And the fact is that Croatian taxpayers single out money into a budget from which one good part of the budget and finance these lines and, in particular, those lines that are not rentable, but which are needed in order for each part of the Republic of Croatia to have such a chance for development and thus the most distant islands. It is the task of the state to allow all parts of the Republic of Croatia to live there, who want to live there, or who are staying there for a smaller or larger period of time, to feel that they are not much cut off because they are on the islands. And in that sense, I have to say that there has been some progress in recent years, that is, in early 2000, and here until 2009 until there was a crisis, so it has been a little bit of a stagnating, that there has been some progress in the island's transport connection, that there is a visible progress in the transport standard, in the quality of ships, in the speed of connection, and that it would be good to save on something to be the last item to be saved on. I believe that the postponement of the construction of a school or the restoration of a port is necessary if it is not necessary to agree there at all does not have such an impact on the standard of the population on the islands as it would have had the abolition or change of the timetable of a ferry line. Those living on islands know how much life is really often subject to ferry lines. So personally, when I come home, I never say an hour when I came home, but I say I came with that ferry and then it's pretty much everything. There is a certain dissatisfaction from the island of Hvar with the level of connection in the last two years due to the abolition of one departure. So there are no more 4 more than 3 lines a day and unfortunately it is in part of the Split-Dalmatia County the only line that was abolished when it was a rationalisation that was necessary because of the simple reduction in the budget and I think it is good to mention it again. So it would be good to find in the existing resources the possibility of that single ferry line returning. The more frequent stay on the island of Hvar, in fact, I saw a significant difference between the link between the island of Brac and the island of Hvar and the mainland, and I think it should enable and return to the situation from 2009. Also, the islanders very often, and especially those who deal with tourism note the unacceptablely high prices of ferry tickets especially for vehicles not for islanders but for those who do not have an island discount. I also believe that, in some other way, it should be possible for these types to be found, so that this type of transport also reduces the price for islands and islands to be more competitive as regards therefore the price of tourist accommodation on the islands. Because it is easy for the price of a ferry ticket, for example, a 4-member family from Split to Vela Luka can spend 3, 5 or 7 days somewhere else depending on the number of stars where the family wants to spend their summers. However, it is also aware that the state is currently issuing as much as it could if it were possible in some way to either increase or find some other sources of funding through the price of fuel, whether through the price of registration of a vehicle so that one part of the money could be directed precisely at an additional reduction in the price of tickets and some kind of support to Jadrolinia. After all, during the time of the island of Brač, for example, two companies – one state-owned Jadrolinija and one private one, which I am not going to advertise now, are isolated, although it is a viable line, in some way boycotted this other boater because they were aware that Jadrolinija will always drive wherever and wherever. Whether it's profitable or not, and if the privates are looking at it somehow, they still don't consider it their own. Of course, it may not be good thinking, but it is illustrative enough to describe what the islanders feel for the Adriatic. So, as one of their companies and regardless of the level of connection, they always have understanding unless, of course, it comes to that extent that it is indefensible. I would also like to join those who consider it, although it is not this topic, that seamen should be given the benefit of the benefits and, of course, I call on the government that, once it has already received the support of the majority in the coalition agreement, that the coalition agreement in that part also finally applies. Thank you. The SDP club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66702	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Representative, Sunday Neda Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66703	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here, as we have already heard, is the essence of the adoption of this law within the extended deadline for granting concessions on state lines in public coastal maritime transport in line with the planned funds in the country's 2010 and 2011 budget, as well as in the 2012 and 2013 projections, for joining the concession procedure on those lines which have not been concessioned so far. It's a two-year term and, of course, five goes to seven years. This is a two-year deadline, thus creating a tendering obligation by April 2013 and establishing the terms of validity of the contract, which is all in line with the negotiating position and thus ensuring that, as we have heard so far, I also join such consideration and the interest of domestic shipowners in the transitional period, and the law stipulates that the public tender for concessions will be co-proposed annually for a number of state lines according to the planned means and that deadline expires in early April 2011. In the past, we have also heard from Mr. Gary Cappellio, who also spoke on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club of 56 state lines, only 18 state lines were concentrated, of which 14 fast-board, 3 boat ferry lines. The activities are now mainly carried out by Jadrolini as well as 11 passenger boaters. The transitional periods for coastal maritime transport and public line transport until 31 December 2016 have been approved and for occasional tour transport until 31 December 2014 and that deadline is extended by a number of state lines to cover all state lines. And that's actually the point of passing this law. This extended deadline is also in place we have heard preparations in the competition that will follow in the European market. It should also be said that the contracts concluded until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU remain in force until 31 December 2016. As we know, this bill is in line with the State Encouragement Act. Of course, by passing this law in an emergency procedure, I'll support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66704	Thank you. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66705	Thank you, Vice President. Here I think the occasion, along with these amendments to this law, is to mention that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has invested considerable financial resources in modernising and building state, county and local seaports, ports and ports for the past eight years. The opportunity is now mentioned that over the past period many ports and ports have been renovated, 54 access roads, but the Jadrolinia fleet has been restored. These were the basic assumptions for an increase in the number of ferry lines to as many as 56 connecting 52 inhabited islands. Only in the Zadar County area where I come from are 17 inhabited islands that are quite well connected to the lines. All of this was done by the government to increase port capacity but to improve service quality. In connecting Croatia's islands with land tasks was raising the quality of life on islands which the maritime line transport system as the backbone of all efforts to improve the quality of life on islands has reached here now we can say the appropriate levels. By the number of links and the frequency of traffic on them, a good level has been achieved. Within the system, almost all island traffic problems have been solved to the satisfaction of our islanders. The success was also contributed by a national shipowner who holds a significant number of lines and who, by modernising and strengthening his fleet, contributed to the quality of transport. A system of maritime connections of land islands makes a direct contribution to the success of the entire tourist season and tourism as a whole. It is known that we have not had any special difficulties, that traffic has taken place extremely safely without delay and without delay. It is also known that because of the seasonal character of this activity and the specificity of our coast and the island 90 percent of the lines are inert and that this country is significantly subsidized by this part. Here are the current legal rules, which were the most important objective, which was an effective organisation and continued maintenance of a line coastal maritime transport system, while maintaining safety, which was somehow under the supervision of law enforcement and was the most important Agency for coastal maritime transport as a concession provider. The most important fact of these changes that we have before us today is that transitional periods are approved for coastal line transport, meaning by 31.12.2016, for occasional excursion transport until 31.12.2014, and for public line maritime transport until 31.12.2016. These transitional periods have been introduced to allow domestic shipowners in public coastal maritime transport and occasional excursion transport to prepare longer for competition waiting for them on the common European market. It should also be mentioned here that the government of the present and the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has so far encouraged the competitiveness of our shipmen. I will support this bill, because its intensity is that within the extended deadline for granting concessions on state lines in public coastal maritime transport, and according to the planned financial resources in the state budget, the concession procedure on non-censored state lines is approached, and we have heard that there are still significant numbers to ensure the protection of domestic shipowners and allow for longer preparation for the competition that is waiting for our shipowners on the common European market. Here's why I'm going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66706	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66707	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. It is likely that this transport in line with coastal coastal transport is characterised by high unemployment, and its operation is necessary to provide State aid or subsidies. And this should be pointed out that for this purpose, the state allocated 371 million and 300 thousand kuna in 2009 to 436 million and 800 thousand, and in 2010 365 million kuna. I think it is important to point out that the care of the Croatian state towards all citizens living on the islands is seen because it is of interest for people to live where they were born, that their places do not leave and that is why large funds are being allocated. With that third when we're talking about islands, I'm going to take advantage of the occasion, and I'm going to say something about our Zagora in just two sentences. Large funds are allocated from the budget of local self-government units to connect bus connections in Zagora with their city or municipal headquarters. So let's say, for example, the city that I'm headed for is a million-and-a-half kuna a year from my budget on that... But to get back to this subject. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the process of negotiations for the accession of the European Union in Chapter Transport Policy adopted on 5 June 2007 and by adding to the negotiating position of 6 May 2010, transitional periods have been requested in relation to the application of the 1992 Council Regulation and the European Economic Community on the free provision of services in maritime transport. So we need some time of adjustment to comply with European Union legislation. You, as Mr. Secretary of State said, are the successes and negotiating policies of our negotiating team. At the request of Croatia, the EU has approved a transitional period set out in the common position of the European Union for Chapter 14, which is that contracts concluded until Croatia's accession to the European Union remain in force until 31 December 2016. So, one solid transitional period of adaptation to European Union legislation, although I personally think that it will always need a state subsidy and that there will be a way for this subsidy to be found regarding this... For all this, I believe that the amendment and addition of this law should be supported. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66708	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66709	The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 697. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 94 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66710	We move to the next point on 14, 13, skip for further consultations. We're going to point 14. Proposal for a law amending the Witness Protection Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 690 Proposer is Government, it's an emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, European Integration and for Internal Policy and National Security. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66711	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the council. Just for a little while. It is about EU law, harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union and with some other laws that have taken place following the adoption of the original text of this law. Namely, this law came into force on 1 January 2004. After that, the Information Security Act, the Data Securitisation Act, the Security Checks Act, the Data Protection Act and a series of sublegal acts and regulations were adopted. As Croatia joined NATO, meanwhile, and that it had taken over a series of regulations through the acquis, it was worth harmonising this law with the acquis. It's two articles. One article accurately and precisely defines the time limits for the implementation of the process of putting a particular person into the witness protection programme and in another article is harmonising the terminology of non-classification of the confidentiality of certain data with these laws, which I have also referred to in advance with the legal acquis of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66712	Thank you. The committees? European integration, legislation, internal policy and national security? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66713	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community club supports the proposal for a law amending the Witness Protection Act. So this law, an important law that was passed in 2003 for the purpose of protection, extra-procedural protection and assistance to witnesses in criminal proceedings and close witnesses when it comes to showing them and there has been a danger of their life of physical inviolability, freedom and property being existed since 2003. Here's a little change from just two articles as the secretary of state said. It was necessary to harmonise this law and those indeterminates in terms of the work of the Commission to include the person at risk in the protection programme, so as to determine the deadlines within which this commission must take certain actions, and also to regulate the provisions on the confidentiality of data or identified difficulties in the application of this law, since all data have been marked as very secret leading to problems in communication and with partners outside the country, but also with the problem of authorising persons who may have access to such data and classification and declassification, and then propose that these amendments be classified by different levels of protection, given the specific degree of threat at a certain point. Here, therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of this final proposal for a law amending the Witness Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66714	Thank you. The HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66715	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will also support the proposed amendments to the law because the current Witness Protection Act, as we know, came into force on 1 January 2004, and this law norms extra-processive protection and assistance to witnesses in criminal proceedings and to those close to them when there is a serious danger to their life, health, physical integrity, freedom or property of greater scope. It is pointed out that, during the application of certain provisions of the Witness Protection Act, certain ambiguities which these amendments wish to be removed have been observed, and also in order to allow for the subsequent entry into force of the rules in the field of data protection and information security, provisions of the applicable law should be brought into line with the provisions laid down later on, and to ensure the smooth application of the law and cooperation with foreign partner services in the field of witness protection. In view of the fact that the applicable law does not specify the Commission’s conduct to include a person at risk in the programme of protection of the proposed amendments, it is intended to define more clearly the Commission’s conduct in terms of setting the deadlines for calling and holding a meeting of the Commission as well as the setting of emergency protection measures and their duration. Furthermore, following the entry into force of the Witness Protection Act, a series of rules have been adopted in line with the standards of the European Union and NATO with regard to the protection of the confidentiality of data and information security. First of all, we are referring to the Data Protection Act, the Information Security Act, the accompanying regulations and rules resulting from these rules, which created a new legal framework for those areas, which determines in a different way the competences, general rules of protection, and technical and operational procedures for data protection. It was necessary to comply with the provisions of the Witness Protection Act with those regulations. The relevant law stipulates that all data on the work of the Committee for the inclusion of a vulnerable person in a protection programme, records and other information that arises in connection with the implementation of that law constitute an official secret and is marked by a code of secrecy very secret. This data marking presents significant difficulties in the work of the competent establishment unit of the Ministry of the Interior and, in particular, in the part of cooperation and communication with foreign partner services, which, according to their national legislation, do not indicate the highest degree of secrecy in the field of witness protection. Furthermore, difficulties in the prescribed way of handling are also seen in some details, particularly in the problem of authorising data access officers to the degree of secrecy. Then the problem of classifying and also declassifying the level of secrecy data is very secretive and clearly reflected in the problem of physical security and the way in which the data itself is distributed. Therefore, these changes for us at the Croatian Peasant Party club will significantly facilitate and communicate, simplify and facilitate better and more successful cooperation of competent services and therefore support the proposed amendment of the Witness Protection Act for all said Croatian Peasant Party club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66716	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66717	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The existing Witness Protection Act was passed at the end of 2003 and entered into force on 1 January 2004. Following the entry into force of the Witness Protection Act, a series of rules have been adopted which bring national legislation into line with the standards of the European Union, NATO as regards the protection of the confidentiality of data, information security which creates a new legal framework for those areas, which determines in a different way the competences, general rules of protection, and technical and operational data protection procedures. In addition, while applying certain provisions of the law, certain ambiguities that these amendments wish to be removed have been observed. In particular, it has been observed that the applicable law does not specify the Commission's conduct to include a person at risk in the protection programme. For the purposes of the proposed amendments to the law, Article 15 is amended and the Commission's action to include the person at risk in the protection programme is more precise in order to set the time limits for calling and holding the meeting of the Commission, as well as to set emergency protection measures and their duration. Furthermore, paragraph 1 of Article 44 is amended in order to comply with the applicable rules in the field of the protection of the confidentiality of data and information security in such a way that it remains that the data are created in the implementation of the law and the data related to the work of the Commission are classified in order to determine their level of secrecy by the competent authority of the Witness Protection Department, the commission, the competent authority of the Justice Department, depending on the degree of specific threat. In view of this, and given that this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, I support the adoption of the Law amending the Witness Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66718	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66719	Final draft law amending the Witness Protection Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 690. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is concluded, I am voting on the final draft law amending the Witness Protection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 97 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66720	We're going to the fifteenth point. 15. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on crime co-operation, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 679. Emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, Internal Policy and National Security and Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the Secretary of State want to go to the Home Office? Yeah. To further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66721	Thank you very much. It is therefore another agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the countries of the European Union. So far, these agreements have proved to be a very effective tool in establishing the partnership relations between the two countries' interior ministries and, as a rule, with the Ministry of the Interior of the countries with which such agreements have been signed, the quality of co-operation has grown significantly since the signing of this agreement. So we also expect that the entry into force of this Agreement with the Republic of Poland will also significantly improve quality. The MUP of the Republic of Croatia will get a more efficient tool in cooperation and in a joint fight against all types of crime together with the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Poland. Otherwise, the deal was signed on July 9th last year. After that, additional controls have passed, so that after his confirmation, this Law can enter into force and, as I said, we expect that this cooperation between the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Poland will improve significantly further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66722	Thank you. The committees? Legislative, internal policy, the judiciary. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66723	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Crime Prevention Cooperation with the Final Proposal of the Law continues a series of contracts concluded between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the countries of our environment and the Member States of the European Union in the field of the fight against crime. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland with the promotion and deepening of mutual cooperation contributes to the fight against international crime further deepening and strengthening the friendly relations of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Poland. That agreement elaborated provisions to ensure effective action to combat the international threat to public security and combat all forms of international crime. The first chapter sets out the competent authorities, the second chapter defines cooperation on application, training and improvement. In addition, specific forms of cooperation such as supervised delivery, covert investigator activities, witness protection, joint patrol, liaison officer, etc. were developed in the third chapter. The fourth chapter specifically addresses the issue of data protection, all with the aim of ensuring protection and mutually exchanged data, as well as the treatment of classified data, which are exchanged with each other. The agreement defines the protection and responsibility of police officers, as well as the responsibility for possible damages. The final provisions state, among other things, how to resolve disputes, the entry into force and the duration of the agreement. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the confirmation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on crime co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66724	Thank you. House of Representatives Club of HSS, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66725	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Poland, a number of bilateral contracts, which are of common special interest, have been legally regulated a number of areas of cooperation of interest for both parties. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on crime prevention cooperation is the result of a common desire to promote and deepen mutual cooperation on the fight against crime, to eliminate the dangers to public security and public order, and to combat criminal acts and detect their perpetrators. Taking into account the fact that international co-operation is the main factor in preventing and effectively combating organised crime, this agreement is also an element of further improvement and deepening mutual cooperation between the two countries, and contributes to the continued consolidation and development of the friendly relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Poland. The objective of mutual cooperation that will be realised on the basis of this Agreement is to provide mutual assistance, and to improve the effectiveness and coordination of action in the fight against all forms of crime, and therefore there is a need to act in this area by means of a bilateral agreement. With the entry into force of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on co-operation, the crime repression ceases to be in force between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Poland on the prevention and detection of crime signed in Zagreb on 8 November 1994. This law confirms the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on cooperation in the fight against crime, in order to ensure its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia became part of the internal legal order. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club believe that these changes will also contribute to better cooperation between the two countries, and therefore the Croatian Peasant Party club supports the proposal for this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66726	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66727	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Poland in cooperation with the fight against crime, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 679. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Poland in cooperation with the fight against crime. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 97 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66728	We move to the next point – 16. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 692 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Work and Social Partnership. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Ivica Mladneo will further propose a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66729	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Contributions. The reasons why we are going to amend the law is the reform of the health insurance system and the merger of the insurance business to one holder, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. In addition to the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme, the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance has been adopted throughout the rationalisation of public administration, under which two holders of the Croatian Health Insurance and Health Insurance Institute and the Croatian Health Insurance and Health Insurance and Work Protection Institute are joined in the framework of health insurance and health insurance. For this reason, it is also necessary to make amendments to the Law on Contributions, in the section governing the types of compulsory insurance, health insurance, and the types and names of contributions to health insurance. In addition, the exchange of health insurance contributions for the right to use health care abroad for persons staying abroad for private business and for tax administration jobs and tasks. In addition to the amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which provides for the regulated powers of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance so that they can prescribe bases and rates for the calculation of a special contribution to health insurance, for the use of health care abroad, for persons staying abroad in private business, it is also necessary to implement amendments to the Law on Contributions in the section governing these issues. It also contributes to the health insurance of pupils and regular students, who are not insured through members of the insurance family. We also need to change that, because it is now foreseen to secure this from the state budget. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Health care law at work. In the law, it is necessary to delete the provisions on the obligation and the basics and rates for calculating contributions to the health insurance of pensioners and unemployed persons who have been professionally exposed to fibrogeneous dust are also the reason why they are now provided by means of health protection contributions at work in accordance with special law. It also complies with other regulations such as the Law on Birth and Parent Support, the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families, the Law on Income Tax, the Law on Pension Insurance and the Labour Act. The proposed amendments to the law do not require additional resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66730	Thank you. The committees? Legislative? Finance and the state budget? Work and social partnership? I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mrs. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66731	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club supports the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. First of all, it should be said that the existing law regulates all the issues related to contributions such as types of contributions, billing rates, contribution obligations, obligations and accounting arrangements, payment obligations and payment deadlines, etc., so as not to list everything in order. It should also be said that the programme of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as one of the public administration reform measures provides for an analysis of the purpose of the existing structure of agencies, institutions and other regulatory bodies. In this regard, the Government concluded on the implementation of the activities and established appropriate guidelines. The above mentioned programme and the conclusion of the Government, following the full analysis carried out, showed the necessary reorganisation of the compulsory health insurance system in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore the single holder of the compulsory health insurance services carried out by the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance in accordance with the Obligation Health Insurance Act as well as the operations of the Croatian Institute for Health Safety at Work carried out by that institution in accordance with the Law on Health Insurance of Health at Work. Accordingly, the Law amending and supplementing the Mandatory Health Insurance Act has been adopted under which the merger of health insurance operations is carried out in a single insurance business, but the merger of the holders of those insurances is also transferred to one holder, which is the HZZO. In addition to the amendments and additions to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, according to which the authority of the HZZO is governed, the regulation of the basis and the rates for calculating the specific contribution to health insurance for the use of health care abroad for persons staying abroad in private business should also be implemented in the Law on Contributions in the section governing these issues. As the contributions are, in fact, the basic source of the income of the holders of compulsory insurance, these are also the provisions of the Contribution Act which are necessarily related to the basic provisions of the regulations governing a particular branch of compulsory insurance. In the light of the above, it is also necessary to comply with the provisions of the Contribution Act with any amendment or addition of those provisions if provisions on basic insurance are amended. So, according to this law, this news is also emerging and there has been these changes and additions to the Law on Contributions, and what this law will firstly achieve is the reform of the system of compulsory health insurance and the merger of the business of that insurance to one holder, that is, in accordance with the new organisation of compulsory insurance according to which all health insurance rights, such as health insurance and health insurance, are governed by the Law on compulsory health insurance and in the framework of the HZZO operations, are amended provisions in the section governing the types of contributions and rates for the calculation and the belonging of health insurance contributions, so that the provisions which mention health protection of work and the holder of that insurance are deleted. It will also achieve the separation of the arrangements and collection of special contributions for health insurance, the right to use health care abroad of persons staying abroad for private business in tax administrations. It is therefore important to stress that in this new law, deleted provisions which prescribe the basis and rate for calculating the specific contribution to health insurance for the use of health care abroad for insured persons staying abroad, as this basis and the rate for calculating these contributions as well as payment deadlines and method of accounting and payment will be prescribed by HZZO by a general act in accordance with, of course, the provisions of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. It is also important to stress that these amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions are in line with other regulations, i.e. laws. First of all, they are in line with the Law on maternity and parental support, where according to this law, the right of a parent to have a child with severe developmental disturbances on leave or to work in part-time for the care of a child in place of a care centre as it was arranged before these amendments to the law determines HZZO, and then these provisions are harmonised. This law will also be in line with the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, where, under that law, a contribution to the insurance of pupils and students who are not insured as members of the insurance family is provided in the national budget, and for the same reason that insurance undertakings should not be subject to the same accounting and payment of both schools and higher education, and then these provisions of the laws to which this obligation has been laid down are deleted. This law will also be in line with the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families, it will be in line with the Law on Income Tax where the obligation to contribute is exempt from the pension allowance paid under the Law on Appendixion, because the same receipt is not considered as a basic non-permanent work, where this law will remove possible different interpretations of the provisions of the Income Tax Act. It will also be in line with the Pension Insurance Act and the Labour Act. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that the HDZ Club supports the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66732	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. She's gone, she's losing her word. I'm closing the debate. I interrupt the session, resume tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, with the Final Proposal of the Law and at 12.00 p.m. vote on the discussed items of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-27-0.u66733	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 692. The debate is closed. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was passed by a majority of 92 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. I warmly welcome you all because today I am the first day of the new year here. Moving to the announced agenda point 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 676 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? He does. Ms Natasa Vujec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
