ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70633	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The final proposal of the Cooperatives Act is before you. In this new proposal of the Cooperatives Act, we entered the goal of solving all the problems encountered during the business of cooperatives and with the aim of developing cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia. What this law defines is that all existing cooperatives that operate in the Republic of Croatia after the adoption of this law do indeed work as cooperatives or operate according to cooperative principles. Similarly, this legislative proposal should be considered in the framework of the implementation of the programme of simplified small-scale operators, given that the establishment of a cooperative is significantly simplified. In fact, this legislative proposal provides that the founding act is that these are cooperative rules, which means it is signed by the president of the assembly, and confirms a public notary that only the establishment of a cooperative on the one hand is simplified, and on the other hand costs are also reduced. This law defines very precisely the relations between the cooperative members and the cooperative itself. It also accurately defines the main bodies of the cooperative, which are the Assembly of Cooperatives, the Supervisory Board and the Manager. The same thing that has led to a number of problems in the functioning of the cooperative so far is the relationship between the cooperative members and the cooperative itself. This law stipulates that these relations are defined by the basis of individual contracts between cooperative members and cooperatives where clear and unequivocally defined mutual rights and obligations. Similarly, in terms of reducing the operating costs of the cooperative, it should be taken into account that this new draft law provides for the suspension of the payment of the membership contribution. So, as regards membership fees, there remains a mandatory membership of cooperatives in the Croatian Union of Cooperatives, there remains the obligation to pay membership fees established by the Assembly of the Croatian Institute of Cooperatives, but with the previous consent of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, so there is one fuse guaranteeing that these costs, membership fees will be supervised and controlled by the competent ministry. Similarly, when we talk about this law, it is necessary to say that certain elements or specificities of certain cooperatives are fully defined, and in this way by adopting this law, there will no longer be a need for these individual types of cooperatives to be subject to specific legal acts, because this Cooperative Act covers all of these. What should certainly be pointed out is that in the Republic of Croatia recently we have had the growth of cooperatives, however it has not been followed by the development of cooperativeism. In fact, cooperatives as a legal organisational form were acceptable to many entrepreneurs who could not register crafts because it might have been a craft for which they needed professional training, certain conditions. That's what they're called. the related crafts or a particular entrepreneur did not have any available 20 thousand kuna plus the costs of registration in order to start a company. What this law adopts as a newspaper is that so far the cooperative could be founded with three members, this law provides for a minimum of 7 members. And it's also clearly defined what's fundamental, which is an additional bet. The basis of the stakes is equal and it amounts to a thousand kunas for each cooperative regardless of whether it joined the cooperative at the time of the establishment of the cooperative or perhaps the cooperative later joined. So in that part, it's absolutely defined that basic bet. And the additional stakes are determined by the Assembly of Cooperatives. Here's what I'd like for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70634	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70635	Dear Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the final proposal of the Cooperatives Act, which we most simply seek to adapt Croatian legislation to international but, above all, European standards, thus making it complementary with European and qualified to join the family of European cooperatives. In order to succeed, we need a legislative framework that will implement the same rules of cooperative organisation and cooperative values and principles that will continuously affect the development of cooperation in European countries and make it a very important factor for the economic but overall social development of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the final proposal of the Cooperative Law, and will also remind that several months ago a debate was held on this law in the first reading which we are pleased to conclude with satisfaction that it was constructive and that it resulted in a number of also constructive proposals that certainly contributed significantly and significantly to the quality of the final proposal of the Cooperative Law. Since the organisation of cooperatives as a special form of entrepreneurship has great importance in international frameworks, I will present some information about cooperativeship, noting that for the first time I heard of some of them when I was preparing for a debate in the first reading of this law and that some of this information really impressed me. First of all, it is about the fact that the world’s cooperatives have over 800 million members and over 100 million employees and that 3 billion people, almost half of the world’s population, provide their source of existence with cooperative income. The data was published by the International Association in 1994, saying that today's data contributes even more to cooperative and cooperative development. It should also be said that the United Nations, the International Association and the International Labour Organisation are constantly encouraging the development of cooperatives and the application of cooperative principles, and in times of crisis it is particularly encouraged to promote social and labour associations which play a major role in addressing the issues of social exclusion. The European Union also acts in which about 300 000 cooperatives with 4.8 million jobs are systematically working to promote the development of cooperative not only in the field of individual members but also incentivising the establishment of European cooperatives, so cooperatives with membership from at least two members of the European Union. It should be noted here that, just over 2 and a half years ago, the Republic of Croatia passed the Law on the introduction of the European Cooperative, of course with delayed application, this law will apply when the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union. When it comes to cooperation in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to say that in its 140-year tradition of development it had its ups and downs. The declines are the most pronounced during the socialist rule when cooperatives are abused to achieve certain goals that with true cooperatives had absolutely no connection, and the consequences of that time are still felt through mistrust in the cooperative form of organisation and business. The previous situation has been slightly improved by the adoption of the 1995 Co-operation Act, and particularly by amendments to and additions to the 2001 and 2002 laws when there is a significant increase in the number of newly established cooperatives. So today in the Court Register of the Republic of Croatia we have 2624 cooperatives, so this is the end of 2010. It should be noted that a year ago there were 238 cooperatives less, so only in a year is the new 238 cooperatives registered. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the applicable law among other things regulated the existence and coordination of residential cooperatives, allowed legal persons to establish a cooperative, a misunderstanding on ownership was resolved and conditions were finally established for quality organisation of the cooperative alliance by establishing the Croatian Association of Cooperatives as an institutional organisation of all cooperatives and cooperative alliances in the Republic of Croatia with chamber features. Although certain problems related to cooperative operations and identified shortcomings were then solved, it should be objective and said that the applicable law does not satisfy the needs of cooperatives and cooperatives to a sufficient extent today, given that in practice there are many misunderstandings and problems of interpretation and application of certain provisions such as those relating to the establishment of cooperatives, convocation of the assembly and decision-making at the assembly, representation at the assembly, etc., etc. It is also important to say that the applicable law is not at all concerned with the issues of cooperative relations and its members and does not address the issue of the application of cooperative values and principles, i.e. those which make cooperatives and by which cooperatives are fundamentally different from all other forms of organisation, i.e. all other economic operators. Just for the above reasons and technical inability to repair existing legal solutions, it has been approached by the development of a brand-new cooperative law that is significantly more appropriate to the needs of cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia and which fully implements international and European standards of cooperative organisation. According to the abovementioned standards, cooperatives are based on cooperative values such as self-help, organisation, democracy, equality, justice and solidarity, and moral values of honesty, openness, social responsibility and care for others that cooperatives in a practical sense achieve through the application of the cooperative principles on which Europe and world cooperatives rest and who, by modelling all the countries of the European Union, are incorporated into this proposed Final Proposal of the Law on Cooperatives. Therefore, the cooperative principles governing the mutual relations of members of the cooperative, which are listed among other things in Article 2 of the proposed law, are voluntary and open membership, supervision and business by members, economic participation of cooperative members and distribution, independence and independence, education, professional training and information of members, cooperation between cooperatives and community care. In view of the fact that cooperatives are often compared with companies, we consider it necessary to stress in particular that there are many more differences among them, which simply make this comparison impossible and resulting from the legal definition of cooperatives, cooperative principles and other provisions of the law. Therefore, there are differences in the establishment of cooperatives, carrying out activities, decision-making and management, business surveillance, distribution of surplus income achieved, and finally on the fundamental objectives and evaluation of the performance of the business where the company has a crucial level of profit achieved, while in the cooperative industry profit is not the first place but the level of interests and benefits achieved for the members of the cooperative and the local community in which the cooperative operates. Just in the shortest lines. Of course, other than the most important one mentioned, which is governed by the Final Proposal of the Cooperative Law. So the law regulates the following issues, the establishment of a cooperative, and so is the secretary, so now we have one single act for the establishment of a cooperative, we no longer have two acts and at least seven members are required for the establishment of a cooperative. A membership in a cooperative that is intolerable and can only be obtained by a person who directly participates in the work and other activities of the cooperative. The bodies of the cooperative, it is important to mention, therefore, the congregation, the supervisory board, and the manager. So everything that is related to the bodies of the cooperative is regulated by this law. For the property of a cooperative, it is important to say that it is made up of the roles of members who cannot be below 1000 kuna. Assets acquired through the activities and other activities of the cooperative, and assets acquired in other ways. The operation of the cooperative and the responsibility for the obligations in which the activities of the cooperative are normally carried out by its members, and the mutual rights and obligations between the cooperative and the members are regulated by a contract which is the same important paper in this law. In this part of course, it is also part of the planned profit achieved which is also specific for cooperatives and which is set up in such a way as to improve the development of cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia in the future. Therefore, the conditions and method of termination of the cooperative are regulated. Then, the Croatian Union of Cooperatives and Associations are defined as a single system of an independent professional business organisation of cooperatives in the Republic of Croatia and are finally defined types of cooperatives that have certain specificities. So certain cooperatives that are kind of specific from other forms of cooperative. In accordance with the transitional and final provisions of the draft law, existing cooperatives are required within one year of the date of entry into force of this law to comply with their work and general acts with its provisions, otherwise they are obliged to initiate the procedure of termination of the cooperative by liquidation. We see here that, compared to the first, we no longer have the possibility of reshaping cooperatives into companies, which means that all those who will not comply with this law can, after the distribution of their assets and their shares, start a new company and thus re-emerge on the market. Finally, while respecting all the previously said but also the fact that the proponent, a large majority of the objections and constructive proposals that could be heard from the debate in the first reading, respected, in any event other than those to which they would have been accepted, certain fundamental principles and specificities of cooperativery were derivated. The Croatian Democratic Community's representative club will accept the law. I would just like to say in the end that the Committee on Agriculture, and also the Committee on the Economy, according to the final draft of the law, did not really have any more objections because all these remarks previously made to the Proposer in some way and the constructive proposals that have been made were incorporated into this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70636	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, Mr. Representative Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70637	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State. The importance of this topic for discussion and analysis of this legislative proposal, which has the ambition to do quality work, i.e. the quality of the co-operation topic, first and foremost, confirms this data in the very reason of the law. As a previous colleague has said, the key line in this argument which encourages us to discuss this law is the following. The best indicator of the meaning of cooperatives in the world is the fact that cooperatives today employ 20% more workers than all multinational companies. That's one thing. And the other thing is, of course, the fact that this means a total of 3 billion employees or who are indirectly living off the factors of cooperativeism today in the world. We've come up with some data, let's say that there are about 17 million cooperatives in one Germany right now, and that their main financial support column in that business is somewhere around 2 thousand 9 hundred savings-credit institutions. In addition, in favour of the size and importance of cooperatives, the fact that in the Netherlands open cooperatives are producing an annual surplus primarily from agriculture of some amount of 14 billion euros per year. So these are the figures that say that modern cooperatives should primarily be in some way our strategic topic. The debate on this should be a very serious, very broad debate. Unfortunately, today we will conclude it with this second reading of this legal text, but what is there. We think this legal text should in some way be a vision of some of our long-term economic development in this sector. Now I would say a few things, a few references to the state of cooperativeship of this moment in the European Union, which I think is very important for us and what is some sort of determination of our behaviour in the cooperative of future time. Today we have several indicators of cooperation in the European Union. Above all, in the globalised market, the European Union cooperatives manage to maintain competitiveness only by applying the concentration and specialisation strategy of production. The second thing is that European cooperatives are currently in the process of transformation. They must adapt that not only to market changes but also to very restrictive factors, which is to adapt environmental policy. The problems of business decision-making are also being opened today in the European Union in cooperative society. We have so far had as a basic postulate of cooperatives direct decision, and today it is mainly because of all these expressed factors that are being converted and replaced by representative decision making which is a very important thing for us to know about in the future. Also today, in the European Union, cooperation is a key role for cooperatives, especially for farmers in national economies. In particular, the European Commission gives special support to cooperatives as its kind of umbrella on national incentive instruments. Therefore, it should be in some way in future kind of our orientation when we talk about the concept of cooperativeism. Let's just say that the cooperative movement in the world isn't called cooperative, it's called cooperative. And some negative synonyms and connotations from some past tense. So where are we compared to what we're doing with Europe where we are today? In our view, we have the following situation, in the Republic of Croatia today we have a great tradition of cooperatives, and these various forms of cooperativeism, we have negative experiences in cooperatives, it's especially a period of forced collectiveization, but we also can't say that we don't have, and positive experiences, that we have no experiences from the times when cooperatives were very strong, when cooperatives were a factor of organization, when they were an engine of development in local self-government. Those who lived in those times know that cooperatives first and foremost rested on some developed co-operation with the village, which in the area of agriculture was a key thing, and that they had extremely good communication with local self-government, which is a rare situation today that someone who participated in privatisation, or privatised certain economic operators, needs to communicate in a social sphere, social activities with local self-government. So our task would be primarily to create a modern and dynamic legal framework for this cooperative, in order to welcome organised competition from the European Union's aspirations. For us in the Independent Democratic Serb Party, it would be particularly important for this cooperative to be restored, and even in the minds of people, not only as an economic need, but in a broader social context, to find models and to define, along with these models, various benefits so that these future cooperatives are properly strengthened, because we think that today they are especially in the areas of special state care are only possible to compensate, so to fill out some black holes that were created on the market by the disappearance of combinations of privatisations, so by abolishing co-operatives, buying, etc., etc. In doing so, we think that, in such a broader action of strengthening cooperatives on the ground, local self-government units must first and foremost be involved, they must find their own interest in this, and we must in some way all define together a model of how to do this job seriously. It wouldn't be good if we didn't recognize the roles of cooperatives, or if we didn't use their potential, here I'm going to pull the parallel, as we haven't used the potential of some hundred, or 170 thousand formed OPGs, in which society invested a tremendous amount of money, as initial means to form them, and we kept them at some starting level, so we didn't get the expected benefit of the amount of funds invested in them. So what I'm saying is, apart from this formalization through the legal framework, I think it's just as important, even more important to operate on the very idea of co-operation on the ground. In that sense, I think that this text, given the size of the topic that should be covered quite thin and that it could have been in various its elements a little bit and broader and better elaborated. I will also say here and a few concrete examples in this regard, so what we have analysed and the provisions of this law have been observed, and perhaps through some observations, it could be better to correct the quality, Article 5 speaks about who, or I apologize, the state local, regional (regional) self-government would encourage the development of cooperatives through measures of economic and social policy, and other measures to improve development. That's exactly what I was saying earlier, one general formulation remains with other measures, which, of course, opens up various possibilities, but I think that should be a little bit different, so it's not just in some sort of, at the level of some ordinary nomotechnical phrase. Article 7 states that one member of the founders presided over the first founding congregation. We think it would be, the better experience suggests that this first speaker of the first assembly should, as a rule, be some of the oldest members, and then, from the founders, it would in some way eliminate some kind of possible manipulation in that sense. Article 10 speaks of who may be a member of the cooperative. It may be either only a person who directly participates in the work of cooperatives, who operates through cooperatives, or the benefits of its services, or otherwise directly participates in the achievement of the objectives. So we clearly said here who might be a member of the cooperative, it's a target group of people, and all those who sort of, in some directly different way participate in the achievement of the goals... is also one phrase that can tomorrow be the subject of certain manipulations when entering that cooperative. [[You don't understand.]] I think this thing should do the same. Article 21 defines... the assembly if it is opposed to cooperative values or principles, and therefore opposes being cooperative. [[You don't understand.]] I think that this is a very important provision, it essentially means strengthening the category of business morality, the thing that has been brought into question today in the big question, that before many cooperatives today would not be the victims of targeted bankruptcys in which deliberate cooperatives have been deliberately entrusted in a certain period, brought into bankruptcy, and their property, the movement of some, so machines, buildings, even the land fund has been sold out for fish sherpa. Article 23 defines a supervisory board of 3 members, but it is then said that they may include three members and one member of persons outside the cooperative, and may be one member, they may be workers who are professionally employed in the cooperative. It is said in paragraph 6 that less than 20 members of the association, the work of the Supervisory Board may be carried out by a congregation of cooperatives. For us, a more acceptable solution would be that there are five members of the Supervisory Board in those cooperatives of more than 20 members, in order to maintain the domination of the owners, and that is the cooperative, because when you have one worker, one external member, one cooperative, then the cooperatives are placed in a tripartite, in an inferior position. It is perfectly normal that if there are fewer than 20 cooperatives that there is no need for them to have a supervisory board, so the congregation of these cooperatives is in itself already some kind of control mechanism. The amount of the founding role which cannot be less than 1000 kuna shall be referred to in Article 31. We think it's a bazaar sum, if we know that a stock company can't be founded, or a limited liability society as the simplest, cheaper trading form without 20 thousand kunas of the founding role, it turns out that seven thousand kunas can form a cooperative, which we don't see is some sort of business logic, some kind of guarantee fund, and that doesn't give some particular seriousness. We think that for profitable, profitable cooperatives, because we have a category we said both profitable and non-profit cooperatives, the profit categories of cooperatives should be much more serious, because then it eliminates those non-serious founders who experience the cooperative in a different way than in the way it should be. For the external members referred to in Article 32, there should be, in some way, an even more serious founding role for us because they are already coming to the final situation and from some thousand kunas of the founding role comes you a group of interested clients on the side and takes over with very cheap money the majority of that cooperative takes over. Here's the shortest I can do. We appreciate this legal text as a very good attempt by the ministry to settle this topic, I say unfortunately in the second we read, that the opportunity for another reading I think was the need for this serious, very serious, very broad in one part and the strategic topic to be a little different and broader discussion. In any case, I think that if we adopt these remarks in some part and accept this legal proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70638	Thank you. On behalf of the National Minority Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70639	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Club will support the adoption of the Cooperative Law in the second reading. And just from the fact that cooperatives in the world have almost 800 million members, they employ 100 million employees, which really exceeds the employment of multinational companies. But the only question is why does this form of entrepreneurship not or can't bring it back to life with us? We like to boast that we have a cooperative of more than 140 years old with a long tradition, that at the beginning of the last century we had a strong cooperative. And today we can talk about almost 2,700 cooperatives, but today they are unrecognizable, and almost half of them are not working, they're almost not doing business. Therefore, the cooperative form is not recognizable. On the other hand, we have a huge fragmentation of economic operators, their inability to perform seriously on the market, whether it is production, buying and selling goods. We have previously defined cooperatives as a society of persons, not a society of capital, based above all on cooperative principles, and yet it didn't work out. The rules of the cooperative now become both founding and basic acts because the so far agreements on the establishment of cooperatives have lost importance and application because all issues could be regulated by cooperatives by their rules, their statutes and other acts. Today it is clear in the law that the relationship between cooperatives and cooperatives is defined. A member of the cooperative may only be a person who directly participates in the work and other activities of the cooperative while so far it was enough that someone entered capital, sometimes significantly higher, and imposed himself on the conductor of the cooperative itself. The recommendation here in the first reading caused an article that prescribes distribution of profits that at least 30% must go to the development of cooperatives and 5% in mandatory reserves to a certain level. However, we are of the opinion that at a time when the various privileges of cooperation in agriculture, the cooperatives established today by the defenders are significantly co-financed and their establishment and the work of these cooperatives. And therefore, it is good that they too have clearer rules and certainly also get a schedule. Membership in cooperatives, according to this law, is voluntary, but what has not worked so far has not been the monitoring of work and participation of membership itself in the creation of business policy in achieving the basic objectives for which the cooperative is founded, and this is primarily the achievement of the interests of cooperatives. And I think now the audit itself and the full surveillance that will play an important role. In our first place, we always put up a market performance, a joint investment. But it can also be a reduction in production costs through the purchase of cheap inputs, repromated capital. Always with one word to boost competitiveness. That is why it is good to introduce an audit because we all remember the collapse of residential agricultural cooperatives, huge debt and endless bankruptcy. Membership in alliances is voluntary and good that it is because it will force alliances to work for and for the benefit of all its members, not just in the interest of some. But this principle of volunteering should begin to practice for chambers as well. Any agriculturals, craftsmen, economics. Today, farmers on the roads with their tractors, some leaders compete with each other who will perform more tractors, jam the roads. And the main theme is incentives, because under quotes they can't live because they don't pay in advance, etc. One word is not about work, how to lower costs of production, how to become more competitive. That only a joint appearance of these fragmented productions can ensure both quantity and quality and a better price. One word to be competitive with the goods we import and against which to keep speaking. Incentives are only an instrument to become more competitive, not exclusively what is being lived on. Cooperatives are the ones who can contribute to that goal, but there are no competitors, there are no leaders who recognize it because there is still a demand for work and knowledge. We at the National Minorities Club support, as I have already said, the adoption of this law, but we believe it is also necessary to adopt additional measures that will stimulate the establishment and operation of cooperatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70640	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70641	I expected it to be a fire today, but nothing. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The cooperative, as someone said here, really called it, has caused a certain suspicion of our citizens in view of the experiences that are bad experiences, the negative experiences they experienced in that period of '45. - '90s. Today, too, there is a feeling of mistrust, a little bit of fear of this, although as 100 million people in the world have been said here, working both in the form of cooperativeism or as Mr Horvat Cooperatives, Cooperatives and hiring more people than large multinational companies have said. This Final Proposal of the Cooperatives Act has made it clear that it has experienced certain changes that are good amendments. In fact, you too, Madam Secretary of State and the Ministry, and we all know that the cooperative in the form in which it was in the previous form led to abuses, and then the three-member cooperative has an example in Croatia that it consists of three members, so husband, wife and one of the adult children. And it's a cooperative, not an O.P.G., but a cooperative. Clearly, business in this case was more favourable than the OPG, although it was, in fact, a family holding. Now the new law provides for seven members to be at least in the Cooperative Assembly, which is good. Although there is still a latent possibility of saying abuses and this kind of co-operation. In line with the intention of improving cooperation in Croatia in the positive sense that I spoke about both in terms of the employment of new and in terms of one progress, the improvement for small entrepreneurs clearly and in agriculture in Slavonia and Baranja, as well as in the Đakovakko-Sekjek Archdiocese, has been held in order to educate citizens interested in this topic in some way about what this cooperative means and what it means from the relevant experts. So there was a brochure published by Osijek-Baranja County, titled "The Cooperative of the 21st Century". And Mrs. Petir was in those classes, and we were together in Djakova. Isn't that right, Mrs. Petyr? Therefore, where all what cooperatives and cooperatives bring or benefit the possibilities or potential consequences, the cooperative’s bad business is summed up. Although the intention and belief in these cooperatives and possibilities are great, we can overcome even the economic crisis through co-operation. It may seem strange and may seem pretentious, but it really is. Everything is explained in that booklet "The Cooperative of the 21st Century". It explains what a cooperative is, explains the legal framework, the cooperative principles, the history of a 140-year cooperative in our fields, then the cooperative in Croatia, how to establish them, what a cooperative should represent and what it should be, and then talk about supporting institutions and programmes for the development of entrepreneurship and then compares itself with cooperatives in Europe, who they are representatives of cooperatives and how I can say successful business. To just back that up with a few data from this brochure and the data are consistent with this legislative proposal which would say by the way the HDSB club would support because it consulted several successful co-workers on the ground who had informed me before this debate that this legal proposal was good. Given Mr. Horvat's remarks on the level of roles then on those people who would be additional investors in cooperative, not that I'm afraid, but I wouldn't want to see abuse in that idea and then have some new scandals and affairs like the one in conversion and privatisation. I hope that in walking as they say, we will be able to prevent such things from happening in a timely manner by means of legislation, regulations or regulation so that we will not experience the very negative consequences that may arise from those reasons that Mr Horvat spoke of, that someone may take on cooperatives with their roles, and that is not really the fundamental cooperative, and there are no goals that actually a group of 7 or more people, those founders of the cooperative had at the beginning. In this documentation I say that Osijek-Baranja County, don't underestimate any county or Osijek-Baranja in particular, so it's listed what it needs to have from the cooperative registration documentation. So that I don't list all the necessary documents and papers, and there are 13 of them, then there are 13 legal regulations on which this bill is based, so we have 7 which is the law that regulates and then an explanation of why it should be joined together. "The cooperative is therefore a joint umbrella under which small entrepreneurs on the market perform as a strong and reliable partner and together achieve goals that alone would be much more difficult or impossible to achieve or could not achieve." It's a poor basic thing that makes cooperatives have a positive omen. Furthermore, "The cooperative supports the development of its own entrepreneurship and develops a entrepreneurial spirit. Co-operatives support and stimulate the development and other cooperatives that can rely on each other by their activities, and then create a whole chain of cooperatives of one production or economic activities in the form of cooperatives." Furthermore, "It is clear that the establishment of a cooperative is cheaper than the establishment of a d.o.o." That's what we said here. The stake is a thousand kuna, and for d.o.o. It takes a minimum of 20,000 kuna. It's cheaper to set up a business as well as a business, for example. the majority of marketing, accounting and other administrative and technical or research functions may be transferred to the cooperative. So these are the advantages of establishing a cooperative. Why the cooperative, not the d.o.o. or not some other form. What cooperatives and association in cooperatives say, let's say Mile's cooperation, which is what the cooperative allows us to do. So, while maintaining a positive entrepreneurial climate and investment atmosphere, this is what we also miss and we keep talking about a lack of entrepreneurial spirit, a lack of investment in the Republic of Croatia. It may be small investments, but when someone sings and children, when little hands agree everything can be done, so can cooperatives. It is that 1000 kuna is a founding stake, but when a cooperative with work takes place then it is slowly multiplying and when small hands agree and Croatia can advance. Furthermore, among cooperatives and cooperatives there is continuity in more favourable financing than any other form, there is effective institutional support from both the Ministry and the Croatian Association, etc., therefore support to cooperatives. All of us here, I believe there will be no one against, votes for this bill. So there is also the Croatian Parliament as an institution will support, most likely, I would not like to plead for anyone in advance, but I believe it will support this legislative proposal. Developing entrepreneurial... , creating a model of business integration of small economy and development entities and cooperative relations, legalising entrepreneurial activity in the field of gray economy, and cooperatives are the way in which gray or black economies can be reduced. [[You don't understand.]] We cannot talk about zero tolerance to the gray economy, but the cooperative certainly provides an opportunity to reduce through legalization and through membership in the community. Why would a man work on black, put himself at risk of all possible inspections, tax scissors, etc., tax inspections, and there is a cooperative that can precisely be his entrepreneurial spirit, which has proved to be gray or black right in the right direction, and thus Croatia as a country will benefit as a whole. What else does cooperative bring? A sufficient and favourable financial means for development are provided, a quality management system is introduced, so ISO standards are introduced, ISO standards, however you like English or Croatian. The level of technological development is rising, ensuring permanent education of cooperatives and cooperatives, acquiring new knowledge, developing models of business integration of small economy entities with large economic operators, etc. In order for all of this to be feasible, it is clear that a good manager, a manager who is active, who is inventive and who is well aware of the business of cooperatives and other economic-economic situations in society, in the country. As a result, some cooperatives, and now there are 2300, can be declared non-inventive cooperatives, so life, then imitative cooperatives created by who knows what reasons, so they imitate cooperatives and cooperatives. And then there will be and there will be if God gives innovative cooperatives that will just run what we all want, and investment and entrepreneurship and the possibility to say here for example now, one trade side chain bound by law to have and Croatian goods bought from our cooperative that deals with the production of green salad 10 wagons of green salad, and none of the producers can offer it themselves today. It may be some foreign cooperative, but the Croatian producer can't offer any. When it joins in a cooperative, and it's not just a land merger, it's one community that can then offer just like this product and trade chains and everyone else, I'm not just talking about agriculture, I'm talking about other branches of the economy. The HDSSB, as I have already said, will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70642	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70643	Once again, I recommend for all the cooperatives, as well as for the parliamentary representatives of the brochure of the Osijek-Baranja County of the Cooperative for the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70644	On behalf of the SDP representative club Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70645	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we have the opportunity to say a few more things in the second reading, and perhaps the appropriate time and moment in which the Croatian economy, economy, agriculture, everything that marks the social circumstances in which we are today. Cooperative and its purpose is competitiveness so that it can be more efficient, have a joint appearance on the market, so that it can plan, by planning to achieve an economy of volume that an individual entity cannot achieve on the market alone. And about the meaning of cooperativeism in the world shouldn't be said too much, except for those things that my colleagues already said before me, which are written in the introduction, to employ over 100 million people. 100 million people for the world are an extremely important figure, yet underdeveloped system in Croatia. In 844 the cooperative was originally created in England, the last time our colleague Dragica Zgrebec mentioned it, and only 20 years after England, which was at the time a colonial power was created in Korčula, Croatia. So Croatia is very quickly I will remind you, given European flows, that I accept the most modern I would say the trends and models of nature's functioning. But what happened. The historical heritage in the case of cooperatives has made an indelible contribution to the distortion of the perception of the cooperative in Croatia itself and that it is marked by one I would say by the unpleasant shape and perception of the market economy. Because some of the things that have marked the past unfortunately over the past 20 years have not been done much to make these world's most developed models and trends of the device and that Croatia and in that part show that it can do better, and there are many reasons to offer in this particular part because in food production and in other things we have competitive advantages. We're good here. In May 2008, we also adopted the Law on European Cooperatives as a necessary condition for the harmonisation of European legislation with Croatian legislation and then, on behalf of the SDP club, my colleague touched the whole series of problems I would say objective. But also what is extremely important is the way laws are passed here and the way in which they take effect. With the accession into the European Union, the law comes into force, but on the other hand, and the question arises, and then it is asked what Croatia has done to strengthen co-operation internally. The law that comes in 2011 after I would say not enough and quite bad practice of cooperative in Croatia is a law that comes late. He's necessary. It contains important comments which have been accepted and will be adopted on the basis of the advice of the Committee on Law and on Agriculture and the SDP. However, it should be said that when it comes to such an important mode of market intervention and the development of a model of competitiveness of individual entities that perform together, then we can say that the law comes at least one four mandates late. And that's how things work in Croatia. The European Union, the European legislation has accelerated this process of passing these laws. If neither the Law on European Cooperatives had been passed here, it would have been a question of whether this law would have been passed today. That's what we have to say. So if the European Union's advantage is not seen, then the advantage is what I'm talking about right now. The European Union has accelerated us throughout the regulatory process by a bunch of areas. Now, on the other hand, the question is what we ourselves have done to make the internal common European market stronger and more competitive. I'd dare say a little or not enough. And with such practice, we will enter both this segment and the cooperative segment when we enter the European Union and the cooperative model in the European Union I would say delivered. And that is the model by which Croatia enters the European Union. Delivery. As fast as the negotiations can be concluded. Consistency with the legislation? She doesn't necessarily have to be bad. Why? Because it helps us to regulate things that are not regulated in this enhanced process of legislative activity. But on the other hand, we're entering that market unprepared. In a whole series of segments, agriculture is just one form of these, that market we enter unprepared. In 2003 this was the last time our colleague Zgrebec was well under the CARDS project, the CARDS program developed strategy and presented the Croatian Co-operation Strategy. That was in 2003. So eight years ago. It envisioned the establishment of a cooperative development agency and a cooperative development bank. And eight years later, of course, none of that. It's that attitude of the state towards project realization, according to the realization of what we swear is our national interest, not just agriculture. Civil engineering cooperatives, the social form of entrepreneurship where the surplus is targeted for social purposes. Last time, a colleague of Gordana Sobol said something about it. But it's a model of how modern countries work. It's not socialism. It is a social entrepreneurship that directs its surpluses for social purposes, to protect those groups that have an interest in protecting themselves from states, i.e. entities that establish and open up social entrepreneurship. Such examples are countless. Croatia I would say it is not even in conception. But I am expressing hope and optimism that Croatia's entry into the European Union is about to accelerate simply not because of ourselves, but because of other processes in the European Union. And now I come to that key issue, the political issue and at the moment at which the country is located, the moment of dissatisfaction of workers, the moment of dissatisfaction of farmers, the model of agriculture, the market economy, the way in which the objectives, the economic objectives are implemented, because we cannot talk about economic policy because it does not exist as such, or anyone has seen it. We can only talk about economic goals. Today in Croatia as well as in this case a law which would dare to say that the late four mandates Croatia is today faced with the consequences of all the bad decisions of the past, i.e. not attaching importance to things that are good and which make growth and employment in the future should today and in the period ahead of us. This is the model of food production in Croatia. Agriculture, a redistribution policy in agriculture which is already looking at it in farmers' protesters, our farmers, our citizens' unsustainable. High support without reform. The European Union, as one of the key policies, spent 40% of its budget on European agricultural policy, is a joint one, which is planned for 7 years, which also promotes rural development, but also cooperatives, which are involved in cross-border cooperation through European cooperatives, and which knows how to place products from a particular cluster on certain larger markets and to strengthen competitiveness. The only feature of cooperatives and models in the European Union, the European Union's regulatory framework, when it comes to strengthening the economy and strengthening competitiveness. Co-operation equals competitiveness. Increasing competitiveness is the only guarantee of product placement. And you have the case that Croatia has great wines, you have the case that Croatia has great food, you have the case that in food production we are the best in the region, that we are much better than all our neighbours, but you have the case that we can't earn on this, that food we import well, that garlic, that we eat garlic which is from China, and that in the tourist offer our quality products we don't know enough to sell, and tourism is the way that the highest added value is achieved. On God's day and Croatian territory, God's given position, a small country, capable, resistant to major shocks, only needs quality management and leadership. And believe that Croatia has a chance. From today's perspective, it doesn't look like that. Bunt people on the street, unemployment, imperceptibility,... And I would dare say are the characteristics of what was marked a few years ago as a result of the bad decisions that follow us. [[You don't understand.]] You can't make a strategic decision 10 years ago or 15 or 20 years ago without facing the consequences of this strategic decision, whatever it is. Maybe for the best. So maybe as an instrument and monetary policy. But that's right. Today we face these consequences, and that's what the rebel people on the street are talking about. I will give an example of Germany, countries in our environment that have all come out of crisis. Co-operation, as a model that functions extremely successfully there, has made it extremely successful that Germany 66% of GDP in growth, in the last year, has achieved the basis of exports to BRIKA, Brazil, Russia, India and China, the galloping world markets on which Croatia has the opportunity, but the question is how much will in that opportunity, is the question of what is the business risk for Croatian investment in BRIKA countries, to offer what we are best at, and that is definitely one of these things is food production, if the daily business risk of Croatian companies and Croatian entrepreneurs is at risk of internal default, with more than 35 billion outstanding obligations. A business venture today is to keep a worker, not to open a new job. That's the picture we have in our country today. And when we adopt this law, then there are a few more things to be noted. It is good that the European Union has accelerated us to pass a whole series of laws that will be good for our country. It's bad we didn't do it before. The state can no longer function in principle today take, tomorrow share, and don't create anything new, in principle marked by populist politics, we don't even have to tell people fairy tales, but we have to face them with the truth, no matter how hard it is. That it'll be easy, it won't. That next year will be easy, it won't. That it's gonna be hard, it's gonna be. But if Croatia had a chance, there is. And that's something that we're building on and we're building on, and that's something that needs to be achieved I'd say a national consensus on strategic and important things for this country. And the prerequisite for this is trust, between participants and stakeholders of the political market, or political offer, and that trust can only work in a way that plays with open cards and that even at this moment, when people's dissatisfaction is growing, it knows when the election date will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70646	Thank you. In 10 and 9 minutes, it's past 10 minutes. We also have corrections to incorrect allegations. First, Madam Representative Mariana Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70647	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In his presentation, Bernardić said one inaccuracy, which is that the incentives in agriculture are too high, that they are in fact in discriminatory with the European Union and that the European Union will force us into some real frameworks. Here, this is not true, colleague Bernardic, because the financial envelope that we negotiated with the European Union, which is 800m euros for agriculture and rural development, says that Croatia should still increase these amounts for agriculture and that it is precisely those 6 billion kunas that we talked about in HSS annually, and you have disputed on the other hand. So when 800m euros are translated into Croatian, it is exactly 6 billion kuna, how much annually is needed for Croatian agriculture to be competitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70648	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70649	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Bernardic, said several incorrect allegations, one of which was corrected by Petir. I will refer to that, but he also said that economic policy does not exist. That's incorrect. Of course there is a programme of economic recovery, here and last week we heard about the guarantee fund of a billion kuna, which in these circumstances, which the whole world has happened, of course the government is taking steps to help that economy. Furthermore, the economy ministry has also come forward this year at the earliest of all years, according to its programme according to therefore small entrepreneurs. All these are the efforts that need to be continued, of course. But you also said in agriculture so this moment that the support is too high and that they don't give results. That's incorrect. So if we say that in 2000 to 2003 there was aid in agriculture of 800 million, now it's 3 billion and 600. 30,000 family and agricultural holdings were created, so milk production went by 170 million liters. So these are all indicators that show that agriculture is naturally recovering. Efforts need to continue, but in this part we need to create a positive environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70650	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70651	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After this latest correction of the incorrect quote from counterpart Milinkovic, it is really hard to even get into some serious and excessive debate because this is such a wonderful and beautiful farm, as my colleague Doric says, what tractors are doing on the road? Obviously, these people are taking a tractor driver's license. I mean, there's no other reason to listen to this. It's all beautiful. It's all beautiful. I think it's really a very bad message to agricultural producers and I think it's unserious and such an argument to take as a basis, I don't think it's correct, first of all, for people who live on agricultural production. To go back to this bill. We at the HNS-HSU club will support this bill in the first reading. First, for the reason that something happened that is not common, which is that the final bill comes within 3 months of the first reading. And not only that, but also this final bill has respected all the objections, almost all the remarks, which were made in the first reading, so in that sense my congratulations to the Madam Secretary of State as the holder of this business within the Ministry of Economy. Because otherwise, we are not quite familiar with such positive steps and concrete steps, steps appropriate to the overall economic and social moment and a simple habit of behavior that has been present for the last 7.8 years in the leadership of this country. Secondly, very briefly, speaking of cooperative I don't think there's any need. Something that has a deep tradition in the areas where we live, something that many of us and adults are with and thanks to something that we have had and the opportunity to develop in general both personally and as a society and as a community in any case something that has a long tradition. And with this bill of law, we created a basis. I think we're very clear, this is just the basis for something to develop. We didn't solve anything with that. We've created the basis with this, possibly, that this envelope, which is promised to farmers who are 5.6 billion, is exactly, that it can be used, but are we going to use those 5.6 billion? We won't. That's not what we're gonna do. This tells the experience that we have from these pre-accession funds, this is the experience of the SAPARD, this is one practice that we have at the same time parallel that the same projects and the same programmes in agriculture are also financed by national funds, means by taxpayers' means, and by European means. We've used national funds to the maximum. As a matter of fact, we are still in debt, among other things fellow Milinkovic, and that is why people are on the road because they are waiting for a return on capital investment, and we could also finance it from European funds from the SAPARD. But we didn't. Therefore, this bill of law, when we talk about cooperativeship, certainly provides the basis and basis for something to be organised and certainly cooperative, which we heard on several occasions, that over 100 million people in the world are employed through cooperativeism. How much of this will be employed in Croatia definitely does not depend solely on this bill, on this law. I repeat, it is only a foundation, an element, but it depends on the state interest that the state will show through cooperative incentives. Some countries place an additional euro on one euro of the founding role from the state budget. And normally limit the payout of profits as provided for in this law and it's a very good measure. Are we going to give this to our associates? This law doesn't say, and it doesn't even have to write in this law. But the responsible state that wants to encourage cooperatives will certainly do something about it. Will our associates get any of that? At this point, they don't have, except for all the abuses. We know, we had information that more than half of the founded cooperatives didn't hand over the final accounts and that we had everything and everything. We know that cooperatives were founded just to take incentives from the state, to spend funds. How and how these funds have been spent, you don't know. We don't have this report, unless, eventually, in the paper, if, by chance, the State's Attorney's Office or the police were accidentally or by a set of circumstances, or a collateral victim of a more powerful system of illegal behavior came out. Some cooperative countries are free of profit tax payments. Is that the solution? Is that the best solution? It's hard to say, but I repeat, some countries do. Surely this law has not been settled and I return to the beginning of the claim by us from the HNS-HSU club, and that is how strongly cooperatives will develop under this law depend on the interest of the state. And the interest of the state can only be through concrete support measures for cooperatives in certain segments. There are a whole range of areas that cooperatives cover from agriculture, working cooperatives, fishing cooperatives, residential, construction, etc., depending on the state they will encourage. Furthermore, cooperatives are one of the key things in the development of rural space. Cooperatives, cooperative organizations are one of the important, several times said today in the debate and what I think is an alphabet, that they are in the role of strengthening the competitiveness of family agriculture. How much we are going to use these cooperatives in this development of rural space, that's hard to say. But it's one of the key tools. If we are part of the 5 pre-accession IPARD fund, which is in the function of developing a rural space of 103m euros available to us in 2007-2010, only 6.5.9% is difficult to expect success. This year, 2007 from IPARD, we were granted 27 million euros for 2007 and we have used only 6 so far, the last deadline for withdrawing the money from 31.12.2011, almost certain that between 10 and 20 million euros will go to our refund. No one will benefit from them except the European register, just because we haven't organized ourselves. Namely, what am I saying? I want to say very clearly and loudly that all these advantages offered by this law offered by this cooperative, all those advantages that are present every responsible state takes them as a lever of development In this particular case when we talk about rural space, bad and such leverage development if we have made the overall system impermeable. It is now known that this torment of the municipalities and cities in the competition for the development of rural infrastructure measures 301. It is known that we have requested one of the conditions for using these funds to be and the Environmental Impact Study for the purchase is about buying a machine, to be a study of protection at work. She didn't... she didn't ask us to do this to Europe. We have installed inside that all tenders must go to international open procurement, regardless of the fact that Europe has a practice that the limit value is at 5m euros. So up to 5m euros is national public procurement, above 5m euros is international public. But we're smarter. Therefore, all these advantages of this cooperative again, due to the failure of the system in the upgrade, will be advertised. They're gone. These days it is and not without reason, a lot of debate is being held over a referendum that awaits us after the signing of the contract. Not for no reason, I think it's one of the key questions at this point. However, for example, Finland, which, when entering the EU, only 53% of citizens were to join the EU when they entered the EU. Today, more than 70% are pleased to be in the EU. What's he saying? They used potentials. Do we use potentials when we talk only about rural development, I'm not talking about other funds, where this year we're going to get about 20 million euros in grants? We at the HNS Club, HSU want to stress the need to strengthen the overall upgrade, and to make an interest expressed by this bill, a law which, on one very simple, transparent, transparent, open way, gives people the opportunity to organize through cooperative, to then create a system to create added value to their added value through this cooperative. And since we're not able to do what's on our plate, which we're offered, which requires only one transparency, obviously it's a key problem. He's looking for one transparency, but that's where we closed that story and we're talking about something we're gonna have, but we're not talking about something we did. We're talking about having a 6 billion-dollar envelope, but we're not talking about what we did. We're talking about over 3.5 billion each year being set aside for agriculture, and we're not talking about having organized carrot production just 37% of our total needs. We're not talking about making tomatoes or tomatoes just 50% of our needs, that's not what we're talking about. We are not talking about abandoned rural properties in my Croatian Zagorje and many other parts of this country. That's not what we're talking about. I'm glad my colleague Milinkovic didn't have it, I'm glad, but I'm sorry he's in my bed. Why? I'm sorry he was in Varazdin County before '82. The year was 17.5 thousand cattle, today 4,5. Does this mean that people in Varazdin County are lazy, that they are not ready and able to organize through cooperatives or in some other way? Does that mean? Is that a message? Obviously, there's something wrong with the system if it happens. Therefore, even the possibility of organising through cooperatives will not open that chance and will not open that possibility because it is a problem somewhere. There's a problem somewhere. And finally. Once again, we at the HNS and HSU will support this bill, however, we stress that this bill is just the starting point on which the state must build its interest through incentives through something that smart countries are doing to support its citizens. And something special can be interesting for agricultural producers and especially for those little ones who stayed small but not for their own fault. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70652	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Koračević incorrectly said that I said that in agriculture everything was wonderful, beautiful and beautiful. I didn't say that, I said that conditions are being created to create competitive agriculture. That's what I said. And in that sense, I've cited the facts, and that also disproves what we don't talk about what we did, and in addition to that, I want to repeat. So again 540 new or renewed stops, milk production increased. Furthermore, operational programmes in viticulture, olive growing, all of which produce certain results. You further mentioned why peasants protest. My colleagues do not protest, my work and they are caught in the struggle that under these circumstances they can be competitive and work. But I'm thinking that I would organize a symposium in my midst for you from food production to processing and production at the end of the milk. Here, in that sense, I'm going to invite you into my midst to see how it's done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70654	Madam Representative Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, you said that we boast that we are giving for incentives in agriculture of 3.5 billion kuna, and we are not talking about unprocessed agricultural land and villages that are falling apart. This is not an accurate finding because you know that I am here several times and the HSS club warned that this is why we have made a programme of the rebirth of Croatian villages where we have sought greater separations for agriculture, and what you are constantly objecting to. Without support for agriculture, without support for rural development, without providing infrastructure in every Croatian village, of course we will not be able to save these Croatian villages. Therefore, both this law and the other laws that are passed and the efforts that we all need to do together must be directed in this sense to ensure that the Croatian village survives and that the people who live there have adequate conditions. We will not be able to help the Croatian village and all those people who preserved both our faith and tradition, culture, costume, the language of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70656	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70657	Article 203 to 209, my colleague Petir corrected my incorrect claim, her argument, and her story was based on something I didn't tell. That's where the Rules of Procedure got hurt. ... The phonogram tells your colleagues everything, so read your phonogram. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70658	HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70659	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Madam Secretary of State. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the Final Bill on Cooperatives. We believe that this law is good, and we congratulate you on the secretary of state and all the associates who have worked on this law. Of course, first of all, we congratulate and thank all the cooperatives who have recognised such a form of association as constructive, as good, and ultimately efficient because, with all those stories that are accompanied by cooperatives, especially from the time of socialism, it was difficult in the modern Croatian state to re-engage and motivate people to join the cooperatives. Because at that very time, the socialism of cooperatives, unfortunately, and their form of association experienced numerous abuses, so we also remember those situations when some came and grounded the ceilings, and it is not surprising that people had certain mistrusts in such a form of organization. And cooperatives have, of course, a long form of organisation in Croatia for more than 140 years of tradition, and cooperatives have, during this period of 140 years, been a significant economic factor, acting on their local but also on their wider community and, of course, that cooperation as such has had an impact on certain political movements. Of course, it is not only the cooperative nature of the Republic of Croatia that it also has its own tradition in the European Union where about 300 thousand cooperatives that provide as many as 4.8 million jobs, which only says that such a form of association is one of the good forms and self-employment. After the adoption of the Cooperatives Act 1995 in the period from '95. 229 cooperatives were founded by 2002, and after the amendment of the law in 2002, an interest was raised in the establishment of cooperatives, which is of course the result of the cooperative promotion led by the Association Union on the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So that between 2002 and 2008, about 205 cooperatives are established annually, and according to some of the data that we have 31.12.2010 is included in the Court Register 2624 cooperatives. Of course, the law is always important because if we pass a good law that will be applicable then surely there will be no success in any area to talk about, as well as cooperation, because for cooperatives to work, cooperatives to take a place in the economy and in social life should have a good legal framework. We believe in the HSS that this final proposal provides well the very definition of a cooperative that highlights its specificities by which the cooperative differs from other societies, integrates and clarifies the cooperative values and principles on which the cooperative is based. It also determines how cooperatives are founded, the number of cooperative founders, as well as the basic issues concerning the rights and obligations of the members of the cooperative and which bodies the cooperative must have. The subject-matter of the final draft of the law, respecting the specificity of cooperatives, wants to enable cooperatives to have an appropriate legal framework for their work and activities that meet the needs and interests of their members that will not hinder them in their work. Cooperatives want to equalise themselves with other operators on the market. In order to cooperate with European cooperatives, we need, of course, the same rules of organisation, implementation of cooperative values, principles, whose application has significantly affected the development of cooperatives and made it an essential factor for the economy in other European countries. The adoption of this law will address the problems and shortcomings in the current regulation that have been established in practice, and cooperatives will receive an appropriate environment for their work which is appropriate to current times and circumstances. Cooperatives gather individuals, gather groups of common interests, direct them to business through a system that reduces the size of the gray economy. As I have already mentioned, self-employment and employment through cooperatives reduces the migration of the rural population, which is extremely important today when the Croatian village and the Croatian man in the country are fighting for survival and when it is not easy for him. But it is certain that, through cooperatives as a form of association and form of business, the new value that is achieved through cooperatives can be left in the local community, it can be ensured to sell these products at home, through various farm fairs, peasant markets, which is extremely important and what actually contributes to the organisation of the market. Because we are aware that today in Croatian agriculture, early cancer is exactly an organisation of a market where cooperatives can help agricultural family economies. It can't be expected that a Croatian peasant who works all day under the clear sky is struggling to process the country, to preserve his house and garden, to feed his family, to educate children, to continue to deal with marketing. This is exactly where cooperatives have a great advantage, because through association through cooperatives there is also a certain competitiveness in the market. A sufficient quantity of a specific product can be achieved, of course, but a much better price can also be achieved. We are witnesses, here are some good examples in Croatia. We can't always just say what's black. There are cooperatives that have really developed good models that appear in competitions. For example, hospitals which are extremely important and succeed in these tenders sell both their salad and tomatoes and fruits and vegetables that produce, which is of course good for the Croatian economy as a whole, but is extremely important for both Croatian agriculture and agricultural producers. So, besides increasing employment through this form of association, of course, has a direct impact on the fact that poverty is being reduced, rural development is being strengthened, good distribution is being ensured and local democracy is being promoted. This is also important because it is still Croatian property, agricultural property is extremely tight and by association with cooperatives increases the competitiveness of agricultural producers. Of course, cooperatives as rural communities have been known since the time of the southern Slavs when they were founded to maintain land, cattle and money. Today, of course cooperatives also apply some more modern forms, they try to be in a trend with the challenges of today's day. What makes us particularly happy in HSS is that, apart from association with cooperatives for food production, when we talk about agriculture, more and more of those cooperatives that recognize renewable energy sources as the subject of their activities are engaged in both biogas production and biomass and biofuels. And therefore, such cooperatives, of course, directly help with their activities and protect the environment and all of the goals that we have set for ourselves by taking commitments from the Kyoto Protocol, which is to reduce CO2 emissions by 33.2 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents, which I think is an extremely high and demanding goal and it is good that through these forms of association we help achieve that goal. Because otherwise, we will be faced with the fact that we will have to pay big pences that amount to as much as 2% of GDP per year because of our unfulfilled obligations. Of course, cooperatives and their members are particularly important in the production of traditional innovative products, meals and drinks. When we talk about the Slavonian tower, which is well known for its Dalmatian prosciutto, Baranja sausage or plum, about various other brands that are recognized not only by us who love them on a daily basis but also by our tourists then it is quite clear that such a form of association helps and develop agro tourism where precisely these traditional innovative products can be offered, of course also in the form of good food, but also in the form of souvenirs. And where, of course, with the beauty of Croatia we should be proud of, we can give our tourists another new dimension. In our rural area there are about 550 larger rural centers, of which about 425 municipal centers, about 125 smaller towns. And our position in the HSS is that these centres and all Croatian villages should be equipped with the necessary physical and social infrastructure. It is, of course, necessary to allocate significant financial resources. We, of course, look forward to making extraordinary efforts through the Ministry of Agriculture and through the Ministry of Regional Development in this regard. And of course we advocate that the funds provided through pre-accession funds are used in an even more significant and powerful way. But I don't think it's a good thing that we speak up as prophets from this pay phone and announce how we know that this year all these funds will not be used. I don't know if some colleagues carry crystal balls with them, have some gifts of prophecy, so I can estimate it. Because yesterday I had the opportunity to listen to the statements of the leader of a political party who incorrectly stated that all municipalities and cities were rejected on the programme they reported on. Therefore, a programme to help municipalities and cities develop rural and municipal infrastructure. By searching for this information I read in Croatian media, I checked with the paying agency whether this information is correct and whether all 67 municipalities and cities have been rejected. I have been told that this is not true, that 33 municipalities and the city have failed to meet the conditions of public procurement which I personally think that this law is truly terribly complicated and terribly demanding and rigorous and that it is necessary to work on its change, that seven municipalities and cities have missed the meaning of the competition itself because they have reported for the recovery, and the reconstruction is funded. And the rest that they've gone through and they're going to get that funding. I don't think that's a satisfactory result, of course, but it's also incorrect that they're all rejected. So this fact tells us that when we talk in general about pre-accession funds and later structural funds we should not politicise, but we should see what we can do to help municipalities and cities and, of course, all those legal and physical persons who appear in these competitions to prepare for competitions, to be able to produce adequate documentation because the conditions are really strict and demanding. The fact is, there are too few people on the market who have been educated to prepare that documentation properly. And here I am calling once again to the county development agencies in which, unfortunately, there are political employment, so we can't expect any help from them. But there are those who do well, and I've said it several times like the Development Agency in Osijek-Baranja County, and it should be an example where indeed every competition that is being opened accepts and helps people to report. So, we should do other business, not like in Sisak-Moslavina County, where coalition partners who neither speak foreign languages, nor know how to write any project, of course they have failed to produce anything or managed to produce from the programme, so they recently responded to my council issue at the county assembly that they will hire an additional agency, so the Sisak-Moslavina County Development Agency will hire an additional private agency to write projects for IPARD and SAPARD and everything else, which I think is absolutely unacceptable. Thus, such bad examples should not be followed, but they should be followed by good examples. And it's good what the economy ministry is doing, because the implementation of the operational plan is going to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, a total of 407.9 million kunas for this year, we think it's really going to be a strong injection of our economy and craftsmanship, and we see that 3 and a half million kunas will be directly allocated, so I think to cooperatives, but of course through competitions, for their empowerment and for their work, we welcome it in the HSS club, we think it's one of the good measures and the HSS club will, of course, support these measures, and this law that's before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70660	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70661	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the final proposal of the Cooperative Act, and I sincerely hope that this law will also actually contribute, I would say to that goal which may now be the most needed for us in the short term, which is to try to change the perception of cooperatives and cooperatives in Croatia compared to what it is today, and what this law says that cooperatives are and that cooperatives can be. Somehow, it seems to me that, in this sense, and perhaps in this kind of promotional, promotional part, we should probably have followed well with certain financial resources, so we should try to change our perception of co-operation in Croatia, which exclusively refers to that part through agriculture, so it is only about agricultural cooperatives. I would like, through a few sentences, to actually point to the other form that was still not used enough in Croatia, but also partly because one part of it could not be used so far, since it was not regulated through the law. In the first place, I would like to highlight and welcome the possibility of therefore establishing social cooperatives. Social cooperatives are therefore something that is extremely well known in Europe and the world, unlike Croatia, and I am sorry that in some way and part of the projects, I personally witnessed one association Step from Karlovac, two years ago or even a little more participated in a project, received funds from the European Union, but unfortunately they could not register those women who converted into a social cooperative, because then Croatian laws had not yet known it. Today, we have an example of an association from, or a cooperative from Osijek, who gathers treated addicts, treated addicts have joined together, find themselves a job, sort of overseeing themselves, controlling them, in fact, not to get into addiction again, and in some ways they return and trust the environment themselves, so in the possibility of their reintegration into the environment, which is, however, due to their past, we have to admit both in the good part and reject them, and then they find it difficult to get back into society. So in some ways it's their re-affirmation. At the end of the line, perhaps we should say what is the primary goal, the ultimate primary goal when we talk about social cooperatives, is not to make a profit, but, as a kind of mission is said, to actually hire cooperative members, and to make enough income for a decent life, and of course there is talk about those more difficult working groups, for example. in society, as they are, there may be some treatment for addicts, such as women victims of violence, such as persons with certain physical impairments, or persons with disabilities, etc. But what I also think is that there is an even limitless source of development, and these are cooperatives as a good form of self-employment. So working cooperatives, where the property of cooperatives is acquired by the conclusion of a labor contract. In view of the specificity of cooperatives and cooperative principles, according to which the cooperative operates and according to which it differs from companies, in the case of cooperatives, cooperatives shall decide on the distribution of profits and the organisation of operations. I don't know, maybe we should see if it's possible to put ourselves in such working cooperatives, of course, it wouldn't, it wouldn't be possible without a certain state's help, let's say for example, these failed textile factories, we've been witnessing two Kamenski and Uzora lately, that it's a possibility for workers to possibly organize themselves, to take advantage of their skills and skills, and to help them buy out, for example. These machines, sewing machines, space, and they themselves continue to produce in one of their own organizations, that is, through that cooperative. Because at the end of the line, so when I say that the state could help them, they'll end up on the stock market or they'll end up, and there'll be a certain fee, and then eventually they'll be paid some sort of requalification or something, so here's a good way to start that working cooperative in that sense. Because if you joined in the way I was talking about, you could certainly produce and place your product to customers, who are still interested in their product. There I would even mention, and recently we had the opportunity to write that because of the disagreement again of the legal provisions, that it was almost ruined, whether the project of education for the nannies failed, in the Zagreb County we have an example, because they cannot be registered as craftsmen. Thus, there may also be an opportunity to see it thanks to such a law, to join together in a cooperative, and through this way to accomplish what they have been overqualified, or trained. So all this stuff that I've been talking about, and a lot of others, it must be recognized in the world a lot sooner than with us, it works, and I don't see any reason why it can't liven up to us. We have an opportunity to read from the portal how some representatives of some of our cooperatives go out, see how and how it can be done outside. Perhaps this is a good opportunity for both the state and local communities to co-operate as a special form of business at the end and accept. Of course, it is necessary to highlight the benefits that these cooperatives may have and have important for the local community, which in some ways create a certain business core that remains at the end of the line and will later be transferred to several generations. It seems to me to be a good idea and I need to eventually elaborate specifically on our areas, rural areas from which, whether we want to admit it or not, the eviction of the population is still going. So maybe that's one way to keep them in the area. Of course, and eventually, maybe when that happens, it's been developing to see if, eventually, there's any additional maybe tax reliefs or something like that for these types of cooperatives. What I would ask as a question is that in an explanation, I saw that the concept of cooperative audit was removed from the final draft of the law. I see it's just been indicated that this is about the State's Attorney's Office's objection. Therefore, I do not know what kind of objection it is, however, worth saying that it is also worth pointing out again that the cooperative is still a special economic entity that has its principles of work different from companies. Most EU countries have a special cooperative review and therefore it controls whether the cooperative respects and operates in accordance with cooperative principles and cooperative values because, on these principles in most countries, cooperatives are then both certain tax and other advantages. So I'm going to call again to spend a lot, a lot more money on promotion and these other kinds of cooperatives. So let's try to change this part and negative perception of cooperativeship in as short a time as possible, only to the possibility of establishing cooperatives within agriculture. I think all of these other types of cooperatives are extremely important, important and can be a good driver in some way and the development of the environment in which it will be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70662	Thank you. Madam Representative Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70663	Thank you, Vice President. Well, at the very beginning of my debate, I would like to say that I will support this final proposal of the Cooperatives Act. But I'm going to ask you a question at first, Madam Secretary of State, and that's why we've been waiting so long for this modern Cooperative Act? Because it's a very much missed time, especially in the agricultural context, in a segment of one agricultural context, which is precisely organic, or organic farming. The possibilities for organic agriculture through means the cooperative model is huge and I am about to focus on this issue in my debate. The fact is that cooperatives have huge potential for the development of certain sectors of the Croatian economy and in this sense cooperatives must be of particular national interest. Despite this law which, in my opinion, is high quality, and which I have already said I will support, it is my impression that the Government of cooperatives are not of particular interest, and the reasons why I fear it are more political and less common sense. The government in its paranoia not to accidentally connect it with anything that resembles the former state, i.e. ex-Yugoslavia deliberately obstructs the idea of cooperativeism which is harmful to the Republic of Croatia. Cooperatives are contrary to widespread prejudice on a form of cooperation that is significantly older than it was for cooperatives in communist states or in socialist states. In fact, it is a form of cooperation and solidarity that is rooted in ancient Slavic times through the forms of MOBA, i.e. the cooperation and solidarity of the rural population in the performance of the works that depend on the well-being of the entire communities and because even the old Slavs actually knew that only when people agree and work together on the basis of cooperation and solidarity that they can take one effective step towards community development. The Croatian economy, especially agriculture, is characterized by the fact that it is decapitated, fragmented, which is small and expensive. Production that represents real weights on the feet of the Croatian economy as a whole. Only by pooling several smaller producers, their joint acquisition of expensive machines and their joint coordinated market appearances do such entities have such a chance of survival and establishment on the market, which is extremely important in these times of crisis, economic times. This is particularly important in the context of organic or organic production because the machines used in this form of agriculture are extremely expensive. It is also very expensive and testing and testing the quality of the soil that is necessary for this type of agriculture, and unfortunately there is neither a state strategy nor systematic support for the development of this type of agriculture. And this is the form of agriculture with the highest added value, and not only in terms of the competitiveness of organic products on foreign markets but also the prices that such products achieve but also what is very, very important and that is a concern for the health of the population. Which is one of the forms at the end and preventive action in the health context. Small fragmented ecological estates cannot be one of the engines for Croatia's new sustainable development, which is what I believe, at least that's how we all talk in the Parliament, we advocate. But well-designed and run cooperatives of environmental producers may be, but for that neither will this law be necessary but it will take the state to do much, much more in this sense. And what is it that a particular state can do to make the organic farming currently available in Croatia at 1.3% of the total agricultural production reach at least one 10% of the total agricultural production, which is some number that is characteristic of most European countries. What should be done is for the government to make an effort to make a map of organic agricultural production in Croatia with accurate information that can be produced. It is then important to be co-financed by the country to examine the composition of the soil, then to make sure that all those areas where organic farming is found to be possible, and we all know that it is not possible everywhere, that concessionaires are committed to this field of organic farming. Also, what we need to do, and what we have not done so far, is to create a network of green kiosks because it is necessary to connect environmental producers not only through cooperatives but also with food distributors and with what is extremely important, which is internal exports, or with tourist entities. All that's not all. When we speak in the context of this law, the state can encourage cooperatives and this type of responsible sustainable development of Croatia and tax relief and abdicating customs in the purchase of extremely expensive machines for organic production. In fact, this financial advantage would certainly encourage producers to engage in cooperatives, so it is a pity that the state did not find room for this measure, because it would certainly, in principle, contribute to the fact that with environmental producers, in fact, this type of cooperatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70664	Thank you. Two replicas. First Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin. ... You're not Shime Luchin. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70665	Please speak a little louder.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70666	I said loud enough. I can't replace you for Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70667	It's a little harder, though. Thank you very much. Oh, here's a little short. My colleague, I've been thinking about why we've waited this long for this one to say relatively good law. So when I read the explanation, I found the answer. In the context of commenting on the articles of the law in the introduction, it is actually a relationship why we are late with this law and a solution to this area in the sphere of cooperatives, actually a negative legacy from socialism. It took us 20 years to ignore or forget the legacy of socialism so that we can address the issue of cooperatives in modern times. Unfortunately, I think there's something else. I guess it took a long time to break up the assets of old cooperatives. I will give you an example in my municipality or former municipality in Trogir. There were four cooperatives, today there are only 1st and 4 cooperatives were the center and headquarters of social and cultural life. And to make a short story short, there was only one of those four cooperatives left, and these three who counted a large number of members actually all agriculture went through these cooperatives had a large property. Unfortunately, all three cooperatives from Trogir as from many other Dalmatian places and not only the Dalmatians paid their tribute to privatisation. They've lost a lot of their assets, and maybe that's why we've been late for a long time, and maybe that's the result of a socialist legacy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70668	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70669	My colleague Lucin, it is absurd to associate in general and to bind exclusively with this communist or socialist heritage since the idea of cooperative is much older in general than such a model of thinking that I mentioned in my debate. It has a very long tradition as regards the old Slavens, it is through cooperation and mobile is that it was exclusively in the context of agricultural works, but it is important that this idea of cooperation and solidarity. And I fear that this very idea of cooperation and solidarity and of a greater interest, of interest not only to each individual member but to the entire community, was, for a reason, ignored, unfortunately, in the past few dozen years in Croatia. And you're probably right when you say the reason was specifically pragmatic and criminal, I'd say.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70670	Now the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70671	So very similar to what my colleague Lucin said, so when you mentioned exactly how in the 1990s the word of cooperatives, cooperatives, was differentiated, it wasn't essentially as elaborated as the word socially was in those years. No matter how social, it doesn't exist, these are the inventions of this defeated system. But things were perfectly clear, but they didn't end. It was about the fact that under the high patronage of someone's property, cooperative property was being obtained and that it became in a criminal manner private. These things are unfortunately not yet experienced by the court epilogue, and it is our job to complete and return the property to the cooperatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70672	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70673	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In order not to repeat ourselves, the concept of a cooperative can associate, often associate some other people with something from the past, but it is indeed a very effective model of a very well-developed and economically well-developed model of organisation and business of entities, and above all smaller entities both in Croatia and much, much more in developed countries of the world and the EU. The idea itself is as old as the human race. First of all, what in a kind of economic sense she promotes, she tries to make every cooperative the owner of a cooperative, so she doesn't put it in the position of an ordinary worker but a co-owner to say so. At the same time, it seeks to improve its personal ownership within the cooperative. This idea also seeks to develop habits of savings and habits of feeling responsible for some kind of community. And above all, this idea is special to the different values that are repeatedly mentioned here by mutual assistance, equality, responsibilities for the business of the cooperative of solidarity, openness, democracy in decision-making, etc. So, what's crucial about cooperatives is that profit is not the primary thing, the primary thing is to satisfy some of the benefits of the cooperatives themselves who don't have to primarily be financial but also exist in other forms as social, social, etc. In Croatia, more than once, there is a long tradition of cooperativeism. I come from Slavonia, the Slavonics of the family cooperative that are to say unregistered, but the first registered cooperative in Croatia is actually in Slavonia. So somewhere in 1862 in Pitomaca was founded a Pitomačka artisan associate, so the savings-credit association that is here will soon be 150 years as it was founded. But savings-credits were the first, they were the most widespread, but agriculture was the area which, through cooperatives and cooperatives, found the largest area of good organization. On Korčula, the first cooperative to be considered a previous agricultural cooperative was founded in 1864 because farmers founded it and operated therefore in the area of the insurance of farmers. Why is cooperative essentially important for agriculture? So it is also pointed out here that OPGs can be very difficult to operate on their own, they can hardly operate on their own in their own region, so whether Slavonia, even in its county, and in particular some national or international market, is the European Union market which is extremely large and which is extremely complex. This business can therefore be improved by some kind of association, whether it is the same production, and then the rounding of this production, whether it is some complementary products, so the technological unit is closed, whether it is a variety of products, and then some, as the case may be, are carried out jointly for all these OPGs that are being pooled. In the countries of the European Union, the fact is that the constant growth and development of cooperatives and cooperatives in terms of strengthening the economic power of these cooperatives is equally in strengthening the competitive capacity of these cooperatives. We on our market especially agricultural products and food products meet with cooperatives, often we do not know that all the most branded French wines and cheeses are from actually cooperatives, not great concerts but are cooperatives. We don't know that the richest Italian province of Emilia-Romagna is essentially the province that has the most cooperatives and that's why they rest. I read a little information about Slovenia, which is very interesting. 75% of Slovenian agriculture is organized into cooperatives, practically the property of all the largest wineries, all the largest dairys, butchers, slaughterhouses and other cooperatives in Slovenia. Similarly, they have a cooperative bank, the Regional Bank of Slovenia which manages all European Union funds coming from the European Union's budget to Slovenia in the area of agriculture through that bank. Therefore, everyone in the European Union has learned the value of cooperatives, among other things, at this time of the economic crisis when because of their flexibility, due to their good organisation, it has shown that cooperatives are the easiest to survive crisis disturbances in the market, etc. So, speaking of Croatia, 2624 cooperatives are registered in Croatia on 31.10.2010. I found the information that was presented at a recent convention, or Symposium of Croatian Agronomies in Opatija, that 3058 was registered. So there's a trend in cooperative growth and so the number of cooperatives is constantly growing and that's what's good. What's bad, that only about 50 percent of them are active and that's an indication that some things should be better organised. In Croatia, as in some other countries, agricultural cooperatives dominate, somewhere almost 2/3 of all cooperatives are practically agricultural cooperatives. When I talk about Slavonia from which I come I have to say that, and I saw it from the debate we all agree, it is for us an important economic model precisely because the OPGs are now dominated there and what is the fact that one identity of the rural and agricultural region has become the identity of an undeveloped and depopulation region. So you need to find a model that will reverse that trend and that will put into effect everything that is positive in Slavonia. In Slavonia, the tradition of life in the country is very pronounced. Often it is considered a brake of development, it is often considered to defend some kind of modernisation of the village, but it should be observed in light of the same tradition, in light of the possibility, in light of some positive specificity on which economic development can be based. It is necessary to observe precisely through the possibility of development through the promotion of this same tradition. Of course, this law, which I see we all support because it is a good law, will, to some extent, improve the situation in agriculture, i.e. it will enable these OPGs and people who are engaged in agriculture to further strengthen and develop. But I'd say that's one piece that needs to be done in the system in general in order for agriculture to really develop. It's not pointed out here or at least I didn't register, we have one special feature, they're defense cooperatives. It is a speciality so much that they understood the social character of these defense groups and thus join together. And here I would eventually just go back to the very beginning. There are many prejudices about cooperatives that are unwarranted because cooperatives are a positive economic and economic model. To overcome these prejudices, education needs to be done, promotion needs to be promoted. I and this debate are seen as part of the promotion of cooperatives, not just as a story of the law. In this regard, here I know at my university there are colleges of cooperatives, at the Faculty of Agriculture in Osijek where it's done. But I must stress the immeasurable role of the Croatian Community of Technical Culture, which is part of the Croatian Association of Student Associations, which brings together 240 student associations. These are polygons where young people, students, practice entrepreneurship, promote cooperative ideas, and thus show in these young years how they should be organised for economic development. In this spirit, I expect that through this law there will also be some progress for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70674	Thank you. Three replicas. First Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70675	Thank you very much. You were talking about tradition. Unfortunately, in Croatia we are often quarreled with tradition, because as we are burdened with ideological and secular views in everyday life, we treat tradition as well. And then it turns out that our tradition is broken or that whoever takes it is full of black holes. When you were talking about the tradition of co-operation in Croatia imagine where today would be the end for us if we had continued that tradition in the 1990s. In the 1990s, there were something under 350 cooperatives in Croatia. It looks a little small, but there were over 120,000 cooperatives. You can imagine how many employees there were. Here, I'm going back to my Trogir. There were four cooperatives there. There were almost 250 employees. Unfortunately, there's not one today, and I'm sorry. There's 20 of them in the marina. In 2000 there are only 260 cooperatives in Croatia, perhaps more or less than 11,000 cooperatives. Here I believe that this bill of law and the number of cooperatives as you yourself have said, and the cooperative that is constantly growing will, in fact, be an incentive to further develop cooperatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70676	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70677	Thank you very much, dear fellow Lucin, for pointing out the tradition as an important segment of the development of cooperatives. Because as you said, there is a large number of people who especially in the area of agriculture. I remember the days when they were so-called. Cooperatives in Slavonia called it a relationship with the village, when almost all the people in the country cooperated, were sure that their product would have a place to surrender and that they would be normally paid for it, etc. And it's a tradition and there's a lot of potential for something here that was possibly negative. But watch out and you know for yourself at the time of conversion, and then privatization that these segments were first on target because they were good, because they were powerful, because they were the drivers of all those local places, and I especially say in some regions in Slavonia. And that's another segment of tradition that we must now return. So those things that are good must be repeated in order to reach them again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70678	Madam representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70679	Comrade Heffer, I fully agree with you that this law will contribute to the kind of reaffirmation of cooperatives, and the cooperative may make a significant contribution to becoming an additional source of employment. It is true that our cooperatives are mainly organized and founded in the activities of agriculture. However, there are many cooperatives in Europe and the world in other activities. So, in craftsmanship, in the community. When I mention craftsmanship, it is very interesting for women who are currently making unfortunately most of the unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, otherwise craftsmanship is an extremely important area of employment for women. So we know that about a third of all crafts in Croatia have women in their possession and that women make up half of the craftsmen. So I wanted to point out, and that's why I repeat that joining cooperatives as well as now defines this law that we can really say is a modern law on cooperatives. Therefore, it will benefit the activities of crafts and social services and open up a wide range of opportunities for additional employment of women.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70680	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70681	Thank you very much. ... in craftsmanship, especially women's craftsmanship, there are great, to say the reserves that will be developed by applying the Cooperatives Act in any case. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] It's a few days ago, to connect it a little with tradition. A few days ago there was an extraordinary show on television about women in Lica gathering and how they organize the production of traditional elements from domestic traditional products, from domestic materials and thus develop their territory. So it certainly exists. In terms of cooperatives, there is still a whole series of untapped potentials and areas. We say trade cooperatives almost don't have any. They're on the trail. I don't know the national trade chain that put together a part of those traders for the purpose of joint procurement of goods, etc. We don't know that Iperkop, SPAR, Interspar, big trade chains are in principle cooperatives. So, the area is very, very large and I also believe that this law will in any case help develop and cooperatives as well as the economies of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70682	Thank you. Replica Mr. Joseph Leco, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70683	Thank you very much. Here's to short. He said a colleague of prejudice towards cooperatives, so I'm going to say something about the law. So, the law has really wide-rangingly put the problem of cooperatives and cooperatives, and the concept of the other and the cooperative speaks about the meaning of cooperativeship. And our positive relationship with cooperatives, cooperatives and this law will be verified when we establish the privileges and support of cooperatives and cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70684	Thank you. Answer nothing? Thank you. It's Mrs. Romana Jerkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70685	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, allow me a few principled, actually three principled remarks, perhaps I'd better say three facts. In fact, Croatian cooperatives in the last 15 years have been pushed into ruin in numerous areas, cooperatives and thousands of jobs have been destroyed. Why? Because of some ideological blindness, I don't know, but what I do know is that in smart countries, cooperatives are the basis on which the entire organization rests, for example, fishing in neighbouring Italy or for example agriculture in Denmark. Therefore, this law should also identify cooperatives as one of the proven forms of organisation in the function of economic development, precisely in those branches where Croatia is catastrophically lagging behind. Second, the law so far has caused numerous injustices and damages have been done both by people and by their environments. Unfortunately, the vast majority of this has gone to grants but it is justified to ask whether this law can correct these injustices and it is much more important whether these laws can ensure that the mechanisms do not repeat the previous mistakes. And third, finally most importantly, cooperatives are in our areas older than any ideology, than any regime and part of a forgotten and abandoned tradition, not only economically, but also in social terms as a lever to strengthen society in general. From the example that I will point out is that not only economic, but also social life and progress was based on the principles of community and solidarity, and if we want to stop the process of disintegration of society, especially in areas and environments where cooperative is the foundation of a community organisation, let us ask ourselves if we have recognised this law. Now, many of my colleagues who have previously discussed agree that this law is good, okay, but that doesn't mean that we should forget what happened in the last 15 years, and for me, this debate is actually a debate about the Peljesac hunting grounds, this is a debate about Posedar, about Sukosan, and about the robbery that happened just thanks to the '95 Law. A year. And today I know that nothing happened, and I don't think I'm going to say that the '95 law is. The year was unspeakable. It certainly made sense, it was well-determined, and it should have actually made it possible to turn cooperatives into partners and it should have made it possible to rob property to today's cooperatives, which have been created and acquired for generations. From all these years, unfortunately, we could only see how particularly small places where cooperatives were pillars and life, and progress and development were pillaged and devastated. All these years, all we could do was watch cooperatives and the whole place fall apart. There's no better example for me than the Peljesac hunting ground. Not because I was born there, and not because my grandfather's there, but for another reason entirely. Can you imagine a place that had only 200 inhabitants, which had a cooperative and fleet of ships in that community. With several fishing vessels, that small fishing ground was the largest exporter of white fish in the former state, with cargo transport ships along the Adriatic coast carrying gravel and sand. The hunting ground was then the largest producer of horns and figs in the former state. In the tourist season, there were thousands of tourists per day, which means five times more than the number of people. The cooperative then began with the construction of the tourist resort of the famous Dele dvor, which you could read about. Of course not for the good. The place also had a school, and there was no doctor and there was no man on Pelješac who wished he could not work. The cooperative employs over 100 workers, coming from Split, Mljet, Trpanj, Dignj, from the whole region, and hunting grounds were the most important place with the largest income per capita in the country that numbered 23 million inhabitants. And perhaps some remember Jure Francetic, Jure Franciskovic wrote an article in Free Dalmatia that spoke about the hunting grounds, and the title of that article was go to Germany, come to the hunting grounds. Yeah, but you see that story isn't over. This story isn't over, because you need to see the hunting ground today. You should see what the '95 Cooperatives Act is. the years did the hunting ground, and how did the cooperatives, and how did the families that had been in the community through several generations, achieve over 100 years of early internship. That's what you need to see, both how the fall and the fleet and how there's no fishing, and there's no more processing, and how everything's sold out, how the hunting grounds have become a haven for criminals, for newly roasted tycoons, and for those with fake diplomas who are always somehow found where something can be stolen. And you need to see how the cooperatives created and worked in it, thanks to the '95 law. years prevented from obtaining the status of founders, and members of the cooperative. You should see how the hunters lost all social and public facilities in place, owned by cooperatives, the property that the cooperatives received for use, these were the most valuable buildings in small places with a number of social content, cinemas, etc. At the end of the building was done by the state and the locals by voluntary work often and compulsory, the cooperative law was passed a provision that this property, so I'm talking about the '95 law. in the year that this property remains for the use of cooperatives until the adoption of the Return or Payment Act for such property, which has never been passed. So can I ask you, Madam Secretary of State why he's never been brought in? So many cultural homes with all the facilities disappeared, sold out, and it's not just a matter of hunting grounds, it's a question of Posedar and Sukosan and Zavojan and Djurđevec and Donji Andrijavac and Šurkovac and Petrčan and Šemovci etc., etc., etc. So the law didn't care about public interests, it cared about the interests of profit or rather cared about the interests of profiteers. So we have the absurdity recently reported in Free Dalmatia, that Posedar's associates sold the assets to TAN Commerce for cash, and the shares, and the lawsuits of former cooperatives are still seeking justice in court. Well, we can rightly ask ourselves, so what kind of legal state are we, how is that even possible? So the proposal of the Cooperative Law would say that it petrifies this state, and objectively speaking, it is difficult to correct it. It says bad laws can irretrievably ruin what they reach. It is therefore necessary to consider whether what is left of earlier cooperatives can be saved from further destruction. Because of everything I've said, about one particular case, and I said that there's a lot of them, my only question to you, Madam Secretary of State, is the only possible question, which is when you're going to pass a law that will correct this injustice and robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70686	Thank you. And final review, Madam Secretary of State Tihana Kraljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70687	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Proposer shall accept all amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives as a whole and also the proposed, or the amendment submitted by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. Here, let me, at the end of the debate, just briefly refer to certain questions that were raised during the debate. Here, first of all, I would like to refer to the question, or to the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not want the development of cooperatives. I'll just remind you that the Law on the Encouragement of a small economy sets cooperatives equally with crafts, small and medium-sized companies. Therefore, cooperatives were in the focus of interest, and also within the annual operational plans to encourage entrepreneurship, not only can they use funds but separate programmes are designed precisely for cooperatives, and also for social cooperatives. Why did it take so long? Here's because we've been working the law in a way that we've been very much communicating, that we've respected the meaning of all the stakeholders, and here's probably the reason why there weren't a lot of objections today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-11-0.u70688	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide something later. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Cooperatives Act, this was a second reading, P.Z. Number 634. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and by the HDZ Club. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became part of the law, in accordance with Article 169. A businessman. I am voting on the final proposal of the Cooperatives Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 105 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
