ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73282	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors! We continue to work and, as announced, we move on to the agenda point - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on sisterhood, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 805. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Care, representative Davor Huška and representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73283	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Let us today begin this presentation of the amendment and the addition of the Law on Sisterhood. So it is known to everyone that on 12 May it is Sisterhood Day, International Sisterhood Day, and I would take this opportunity to congratulate Croatia on behalf of the promoters and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to all nurses in the Republic of Croatia on their day. And this is always an opportunity to thank them for everything nurses do for our patients, for our patients and for their overall role in Croatian society. So there is one good symbolism to say in the opening statement a few more things that happen in the Croatian sisterhood during this period of accession and harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union and what awaits Croatian nurses on the day of entry into the European Union. The Republic of Croatia has a long tradition of the education of nurses. I'll start with that. I won't, I'll try to be as short as possible, but for the sake of understanding, it's necessary to say. So medical schools in the Republic of Croatia were educated in traditional vocational schools, four-year secondary schools, and had the possibility of continuing a certain education through two-year higher schools. Already in 1994, and earlier years, it was seen that the need for knowledge in the development of the sisterhood was much greater, so a traineeship was introduced for a year which was simply multidisciplinary where nurses went through various additional educations in skills and competences which ended up mandatory at one time was called state, so professional, so traineeship. Today it's a professional exam, a test for those who are not nurses who don't know that one of the most complex exams in their schooling is. So the exam, which consists of 9 subjects and which definitely whoever passed the exam, means that the candidate or candidate absolutely has the right to work in the Republic of Croatia. The European directives continue to contain what most European countries have. It is a minimum schooling for the job of a nurse of 10 years of general education and 3 years of vocational education. There are differences in the countries of the European Union, so there are higher degrees of education, so we have countries where there are university degrees, and then there are sisterhood PhDs. However, what the minimum directive says is what is binding on all members of the European Union. Why is that important to say now? Because during the two enlargements, a number of countries that had a similar system to education in the Republic of Croatia, but without, for example, the traineeship of nurses who were educated at the level of vocational schools did not receive recognition of the title of nurse. Because it is not just a question of cross-border cooperation in a way that the nurse will be able to go to Austria, Italy or elsewhere, so it is recognised that her profession is already the issue that in the Republic of Croatia the moment we become a member of the European Union the job of a nurse can only be done by a nurse who has received education in accordance with the minimum standards of the directive. During the five-year negotiations in section 3 for nurses, the Republic of Croatia managed to prove to the European Commission and its experts that the level of education, the level of knowledge and quality of Croatian nurses is such that these eight years of primary school and the first two years of secondary school where general education courses can be accepted as 10 years of general education and that is accepted. Where the other two years of high school which are professional subjects are accepted as professional subjects and where the traineeship of a year can be considered an education. Thus, with the condition that the education system in the Republic of Croatia is changed, meaning from system 8 plus 4 plus 1 can be 8 plus 5, the European Union or the European Commission has adopted and made a recommendation for the Council of Ministers to place in the accession contract for the Republic of Croatia to recognise the middle nurses who have completed, so high school, traineeship, passed a professional exam with the addition of acquired rights that they have worked in the system for at least three of the last five years. Thus, in the Republic of Croatia, the education system has started to change, and it has been introduced, so a five-year vocational school for nurses who, therefore, has 2 years of more general education and 3 years of professional courses with a minimum of 4600 hours. Last year, the first generation enrolled which, on the moment of graduation, became nurses of general care, European occupation, European qualification. And it is the only vocational school that gives European interest thanks to the directive by completing the vocational school. However, as I have stated, Croatia's tradition is quite long. It should be said that there was also a further level of education in Croatia and that by introducing professional studies, it was pre-graduate. So, three-year professional studies and the introduction of the first degree developed a second level of nursing education where, due to Bologna and binaryity of the system at first, there was a certain difference between university undergraduate studies and professional undergraduate studies. However, as it comes to the skills and competences of our healthcare system, it is necessary for the work of nurses who are practically identical, on the side of the health system that we recognize both the first grade as equal, means with sufficient competences. And those seniors, according to their initial recognition as general nurses, have automatic recognition, and that part was introduced into the directive, means as a proposal for an accession contract. In Croatia since we want to continue the development of the sisterhood, because the sisterhood as science should be taken very seriously and as all other sciences, because far and far has the time since... To this day in the development of the sisterhood, this has taken place in the further development of the possibility of education in this science, so here you can be informed of those who are not known, that since last year at the University of Osijek there is also a graduate university study of the sorority, where finally, when the first master's degree of sisterhood comes out of that study, the conditions have been obtained for the first time in the study programmes as staff who will therefore educate our young sisters are just about to be educated for this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's very important, then. Then we first move from a system where doctors educated nurses in vocational schools, in vocational studies, to finally have their own independence in the educational part. So what makes it clear in the Republic of Croatia at this time is that there are several levels of nurses, that the first and basic level, the level of the general nurse who completed the vocational school, that the second level, the level of the nurse is the first grade regardless of whether a university or a professional study, and that there is a master's degree of sisterhood with a further possibility of going to doctoral studies in sister science. As long as we need sisters in the Republic of Croatia, you always hear that we miss sisters like this, we lack sisters. At this moment, Croatia has all 32 thousand nurses, 22 thousand of whom work in the healthcare system, 24 thousand, 21 thousand are nurses of general care, of which almost 99% will therefore be recognised and become the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union of the European Nurses, without any... , I especially stress the necessary procedures, because it is constantly wanting to be in the public of misunderstanding to fear that something will happen that should still be passed, so they remain fully in their places with something wider even competences, so we have 3,000 nurses first-degrees, who are fosterers of the nursing care team, we have 36 enrolled nurses of the university graduate study in Osijek, and we have another direction, as Croatia has developed the binary system, we have nurses who have completed a specialist degree study. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a follow-up to the first grade. In the period, the plan is that over the next 10 years the level of education is raised from a minimum level to a level of first grade, which means that this number of nurses are slowly working in the system as general nurses, to be complemented by a higher number of first graders, for which it is certain that they will require both a lot of time and a lot of money. At the level of the year, according to the calculations, in the Republic of Croatia to make the system a stable number of employees at this level, it takes about 2,000 nurses at the level of the nurses in general. About 800 first - grade sisters are needed, and about 50 nurses are needed. Only that number, meaning planically, in order for the system to be maintained, indicates why we went in this way and why the further possibility of schooling should certainly raise the level of training of nurses, but should be aware that this is a long-term process, a process that we must work together and which must be very well clear and recognizable. In order to meet the minimum standards of the directive, in order for our law on sisterhood to be a modern law that is in line with the directives, it is necessary to implement these last amendments and additions to the Law on Sisterhood that lies before you. These changes and additions for the first time clearly show what competences are that the levels of nurses, that means the key part of these amendments and the addition of the law is the part that says what can be done and what the nurse of general care is trained for, for which the nurse is a first-rate nurse, and for which the nurse is a master of the sorority. By doing so, along with these additional amendments that exist in the law, some of which have seen some misunderstanding, and they have existed before, but we may have defined them better, because during the debates on the boards, there may have been some problems, but this is the main part of what this law is about, and which will ultimately ensure that the health system sets up the same way. So I have to tell you that in the healthcare system you today have only a system of jobs, for mid-stakes nurses and more professional training, it can no longer survive that way. Sisterhood is too complex a science to remain at that level. We can say today that a nurse in primary health care must have a minimum nurse general care, and perhaps some additional education, that a nurse, for example in an intensive care unit, must be a minimum first-rate. So today we have a graduation simply for which responsibility a nurse should have some kind of education. And now it's up to you, after this law is passed, to put it in the health system and set it up. In order to ensure in the sisterhood, because there is a great hunger for knowledge, and it should be said here publicly, that in Croatia there is a trend that nurses in the absence of these very provisions, in the absence of organised programmes go to professional training or vocational education in neighbouring countries, where in some countries they are developed. What needs to be done is to create these preconditions, which is why for the first time has been introduced a year ago and specialization for nurses, in those cases, means in those problems where additional skills are needed. Specialization belongs to horizontal education, meaning horizontal education, so you don't acquire higher professional preparation, but you acquire special competences. Unlike many, it may not be clear, which is a specialist degree study or a specialist postgraduate university study, although partly equally sound, is a vertical education, meaning vertical education, an education that acquires a higher level of training. In part of the other proposals, this bill here introduces itself, what was and I will look back at it in the debate, is introduced in which cases we cannot in any way burden a nurse for certain possible unwanted outcomes, when she is not able to provide a particular service in accordance with all sciences and professions, because we are all aware today that there must be a strength of responsibility for each one's actions, but also if we are looking for a great responsibility we must enable that for the part for which she cannot be responsible that she cannot even answer for that part. We can also make things right because thank God that the tumultuous and long tradition of the Republic of Croatia has led to certain changes in the system of education, and in a period of time we had dispensary nurses, so in a period of time we had gynaecological-obstetric nurses, and then we had the recipient in the inability of further schooling at the Higher School for Nurses, so today we have our sisters who first graduated from primal school, then the Higher Sister. By this law in Articles 21 to 23, we finally resolve this issue once and for all to be known, and that is the point that healthcare professionals with completed one of the health vocational educations, which is where we consider the recipient, that is where we consider all those who had different titles, and some of the terms we started with in Article 2 and introduced to finally draw the line. They have the right to acquired labour rights in those places. So they become this law of general care so that according to their competences, they can continue to do what they have done in quality. We have to say, I will look at at the end of this opening statement that there has been a lot of misunderstandings and different visions in fear that what happened to some of the countries and even in our environment and also that there has been a great tendency for the sisterhood to rise to a high level during these negotiations, not thinking that at this moment the capacity of professional studies in the Republic and university studies in the first degree will be able to secure what is said a stable system. But that 21 thousand nurses, so general care, if every year 2 thousand were to be educated to the second level, at the level of the first grade, means another 2 thousand for which the capacities do not need to be realistic, it would take us 10 years to raise that part of the nurses from the level of the general nurse to the level of the first grade. For this reason, we believe that this way that is ultimately in line with the sister associations, that this way is one of the best ways, but under the great condition and responsibility of all of us to continue the development of the sisterhood exactly as we have set it up and that in really 10 to 15 years in the Republic of Croatia, the nurse receives a minimum education through sister studies. So here I will repeat once again to thank all the nurses in the Republic for their commitment, for something to continue to maintain that the job of the sisterhood is not an interest but that it is an invitation, to continue with their extraordinary work to help our patients and once again, here and I believe in the name of all of you congratulating the International Sisterhood Day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73284	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73285	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, I would also like to join the congratulations of Sisters' Day and thank all the nurses for everything they do for our patients, they are persons of first contact and the most frequent contact of patients with healthcare staff and carry on them a huge burden that they carry consciously, quietly, modestly often and unrecognizable from the general public. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sisterhood with the Final Proposal for the Law was also the subject of our Committee which discussed these amendments as a parent body. The opening argument was given by the applicant's representative. In that explanation, the applicant's representative explained the basic reasons for proposing amendments and supplementing the law. As some amendments are highlighted, it is necessary to comply with the provisions of Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe and the Council of the EU on the recognition of professional qualifications in the section relating to the education and part-time work of nurses. In accordance with the Directive, the training of nurses involves regular training for nurses who include at least 3 years of vocational education, i.e. 4 600 hours of theoretical and practical education. The proposed law accurately determines the competences of the nurse, the content and manner of their activities, the standard of education, the conditions for carrying out activities, quality control and professional supervision of the work of nurses in the Republic of Croatia. It is also possible to train nurses at all levels and to obtain conditions for providing all levels of medical services including the most complex care needed as part of modern medical science. It is also possible for nurses to participate in the course and in scientific work. After the discussion, the committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt amendments to the law by proposing one amendment, which is that in Article 13 of the additional Article 16a of the fifth subparagraph of Article 5(3), the following words are organised and managed by the replacement of words to human resources in the word staff. So we enter the EU with staff, not human resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73286	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73287	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Members and members of the HDZ Club join in their congratulations on the International Sisterhood Day. I truly thank all the sisters for what they do for such a responsible and difficult job. The HDZ Club discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Sisterhood with the final proposal for a law with the label P.Z.E. The sisterhood law is indeed one of the most important laws for the profession of the largest group of health employees. This bill adopts the provisions of Directive 2005/36 on the recognition of professional qualifications in the section relating to education and part-time nurses, with a view to harmonising our legislation with the EU acquis in Chapter 3. - Freedom to provide services. The aim is to guarantee access to the same profession and the same rights for persons who have acquired professional qualifications in one of the Member States when performing that profession in another Member State. Harmonisation of Croatian sisterhood, education with the Directive on the mutual recognition of professional qualities and qualifications is a prerequisite for the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The legal proposal determines the competences of a nurse who includes knowledge and skills, knowledge and procedures of planning, organisation, implementation and evaluation of the quality of implementing nurse care provided to a patient in accordance with the levels of education, depending on whether a nurse with primary education, a nurse first grader or a nurse is a nurse. This description of the nurse’s activities for the general health care activity includes the work of nurses who, according to regulations before complying with EU regulations, have completed a higher school, or under current regulations, a undergraduate study. The tendency is to raise the level of training of nurses to a higher level, which is what they were really trying to do. Health care services were performed and carried out by healthcare professionals who use the professional name of a nurse of secondary professional training, which does not include nurses' services for general health care in accordance with the provisions of the directive, which means at least three years of vocational education, four thousand and 600 hours of theoretical and practical education, in order to make their profession truly European. The legislative proposal contains solutions that are consistent with domestic legislation in the field of education by adopting directives. From this year on, the medical school has not been going for more than 4 years, with at least three years of vocational education, or 4 thousand and 600 hours of theoretical and practical education. The Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications states that general education takes 10 years and professionally for three years. The nurse has the right and the obligation to professionally perfect the continuous restoration of acquired knowledge and the adoption of new ones according to the latest achievements. Permanent professional training is conducted through participation in professional seminars, courses and meetings. The entry into the European Union of nurses who have worked for at least three years on nurses' jobs and have previously completed secondary school education, completed a traineeship and passed a professional exam will be recognised in the European Union. After that, they get the title of nurse or medical care and license technicians without having to take a professional exam and do an internship. This law also lays down transitional provisions. Articles 21, 22 and 23 where sisters who are located in the place where they are working to enter into force of this Act are entitled to enter into the register and obtain an authorisation for independent work. Members and members of the Croatian Democratic Community discussed the general educational subjects of the first two years in which both mathematics and foreign language are found, which are lost in further education. We have listened to nurses, however, it is not resolved by this Law, it is especially for the Ministry of Education. So we have seen further reform in the education system because, of course, our education lasts for 8 years, basic education, and we have heard the need under the directive and in many European countries 10 years of education. A higher level of nursing education is obtained through the completion of a pre-graduate study of the sorority for nurses or a graduate university study of the sisterhood. Article 2 sets out the appeal of the conscience of nurses who have the right to refuse the conduct of nursing care if this does not conflict with the rules of the profession and does not result in permanent health consequences or endangers the life of a patient. The patient must be informed of his decision in due time or in a written manner by the responsible or superior. Article 15 determines that a nurse is not responsible for not conducting healthcare procedures unless the employer has provided the medicines. Today there are 32,000 nurses in the system, 80% are in the hospital system, they have medium professional equipment, and 20% are already senior nurses with that completed sisterhood study. There is an opportunity to improve the quality of sisterly care for patients. Lifelong education is necessary, participation in professional seminars, courses, professional studies and as prescribed by the General Act by the Croatian Chamber of Nurses. A higher level of education is obtained through the completion of a pre-graduate study of the sisterhood and a graduate university study of the sisterhood. We also discussed a part of this Law where citizens of the Member States of the European Union must know the Croatian language. In fact, the law itself says, Mr. Secretary, that the smallest level is what needs to be given to uninterrupted and necessary communication with the patient. So one of the smallest levels of knowledge of Croatian. We've seen what it's like in a German case, so listen. The candidates are asked to know the German language well, daily communication and language of the profession. No account shall be taken of the fact that the employer is willing to hire a language-knowledge worker who he considers sufficient as well as the justification that the worker will subsequently through practice master German to a sufficient extent. So perhaps not this least but a good knowledge of Croatian. Finally, the purpose of sister activities is to protect the health of individuals, families and the entire population, and therefore sisters must be competent with all skills and knowledge. The need for a high-quality patient health care system requires not only effective and effective sister labor, but also legal basis for sister education with basic, basic and higher levels. The provisions of this Act apply to nurses who carry out medical care activities at all levels of healthcare, in the activities of social care in other activities in which nurses provide direct medical care and nurses who participate in the education of nurses in medical care matters. This Law really gave sisters their autonomy more competence, greater education greater responsibility, and all for the benefit of patients and all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73288	Thank you. On behalf of the HNSU Club, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73289	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. From the opening statement of the State Secretary, and from the Committee's opinion, the opinion of the HDZ Club would be concluded that it is a consensus in the accession to the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Sisterhood and that would be precisely in honor of the International Sisterhood Day. As if the Ministry of Health and Social Care has prepared these changes and additions as a gift, as a congratulator to Croatian nurses and told the secretary of state that this proposal is fully in line with the associations of nurses in Croatia. I do not want to contaminate a whole series of arguments he has presented, especially in the part that speaks about the results of our negotiations with the representatives of the European Commission, and I have no intention of opposing some of these arguments because I am not professional in this area. But it is my duty as a national representative to convey the opinions of those I hold fully competent for this area, the opinions of those whom the nurses, the medical technicians have chosen on their behalf to represent the profession and to represent the professional interests and opinions and attitudes of those that the Croatian Assembly has made over the past few weeks with appeals not to accept this proposal. Therefore, at least it would be fair for the Croatian public, first of all the Croatian Parliament and then the Croatian public, to find out what the opposing positions are, or opposing thoughts. The Secretary of State said that amendments and additions to the law are adopted with consent, with the consent of associations that gather nurses, medical technicians, and I will quote you three messages that I received from three different associations. One writes, unfortunately I must inform you that the Croatian National Federation of Sisterhood has not been informed of the amendments to the Law on Sisterhood, nor has it been able to participate in the work. The sad fact that no association in the sisterhood has been given the opportunity to give its proposal or to participate in a public debate, if any. So that's one quote. The second is, it is a rough manipulation of the sisterhood profession by the Ministry of Health and Social Care. And thirdly, the way the Ministry of Health regulates issues is certainly not the way that reflects the attitudes of our association. What exactly is this about? The very powerful critics of this proposal say that it is actually a reflection of a deep mistrust of the dominant professions in Croatian healthcare and professions according to the profession of the sisterhood, or one way of thinking that the nurses, or nurses, or medical technicians, hold to the auxiliary work force, i.e. medical assistants, nurses, secretaries, cashiers, and or suppliers of search samples. If such an approach exists, the Ministry and the Croatian Parliament must not give him the space of affirmation because the sisterhood is not only science but also a profession that far exceeds such access and such an understanding of the role of nurses. The easiest thing to do on the occasion of International Sisterhood Day is to say big words of gratitude, big words of recognition, but if there is no adequate protection of the dignity of the profession, that is, if the Croatian sisterhood is placed in a more unfavourable position in the medium term than that of the sisterhood of the European Union today, then the question of what are the real reasons for such a solution or for the introduction of a system that does not exist in any of the countries of the European Union. And this is the formula that we have heard here, that the primary school and the first two grades of secondary school are considered a basic ten-year education which, then for the last two years of high school and one year of traineeship, can be interpreted as three years of vocational education that should be equivalent to the existing level of educational standard in the countries of the European Union. And it's not only that it's not like that, it's important, it's different. No European Union country, among the current member states, has put the lower threshold below the highest level, and some have put it at university level. So, perhaps it was only at the end of his presentation that State Secretary Golem was directly saying that all those who have advocated that the level of the championship as a minimum level for basic competences is already established, that these are actually advocates who do not understand the existing situation and who do not realize that even in 10 years, they cannot be educated when nurses are at that level. But why, then, that claim that goes beyond that, we hope that in 10 years we will reach that level, which will happen with the position of Croatian nurses on the European labour market the moment we enter the European Union. Do we not realize that the position of such a defined competence, fundamental competence and level of education of the Croatian nurse or Croatian medical technician is absolutely in a worse position than any other sister in the European Union. Tomorrow, when the boundaries for labour mobility and the sisterhood are opened, when the negotiated deadlines expire, not only for us but also for the new members of the European Union, which have therefore entered the European Union in the last and last enlargement, what will happen to our labour market? Our sisters will compete with sisters who have a much, much better basis in the beginning and who according to this defined model have a higher level of competence. What is it, is it a fear of the state's obligation to provide a nurse with higher education? Is that fear of costs, as Mr. Golem said, and some insufficient capacity of existing universities. But it is difficult to make any final assessments there, but the fact that such a legal solution does not have a single Member State of the European Union. None. The directive is clear here. We translate it differently. The secretary of state was very clear and loud and when he reported how negotiations were under way and what we were able to negotiate, which the European Commission recognized and recognised in us as a specific instrument in relation to other countries. You can say whatever you want today. You're absolutely right. You're part of a doctor's lobby, and I don't expect anything from you. However, it is clear that there are disagreements here. On the occasion of International Sisterhood Day, saying that this law, i.e. amending and supplementing the law, is in line with their associations, and that there is written evidence that it is not so good, is not fair and minimum of jurisdiction at least as far as we are concerned from the HNS and HSU club, is that we tell the public that there are different views on these problems and that Croatian nurses require the raising of guaranteed level of basic education to acquire competence in this profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73290	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73291	Thank you very much. I am correcting the quote of a colleague who said that the law is not discussed with associations, that nurses have no rights as it is in the European Union, etc. I'm justifying him for that inaccuracies with the opening sentence when he said he wasn't competent for this area. It really isn't. The sisters are in line with all the laws on the European Union and their progress. And it's incorrect that the ministry didn't cooperate in lawmaking. He was working with the ultimate roof professional institution. It's the Chamber of Nurses. The chamber was building law along with the ministry. President of the Chamber and the Chamber always participate in the work of our parliamentary committee and they have agreed with all the specifics. This is a law that speaks for, not against, a very, very respected profession of a nurse.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73292	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73293	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague, Beus Richembergh, has made several incorrect allegations and I would only refer to a few where he said this was a consensus in honor of International Sisterhood Day. No, this is a colleague on compliance with European Union legislation in Chapter 3. Next, you said they didn't consult the association. Well, we said that the Sister's Chamber, which one of the strongest professional chambers said very clearly that it supports and President Commora said thank God that it regulates further education. It's not about any mistrust. If the nurses rise to the doctorate level and all the others say it enough. But you also said you were told to tell. It would be a good idea for you as a national representative to have one of your own opinions, not in a way that you are politically laminate in things you have no idea about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73294	Mrs. Carmela Caparin's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73295	Thank you very much. I am correcting the inaccuracy of my colleagues that there is not a single country of the European Union that has such a system of health care arrangements as regards nurses. You show a lack of understanding and ignorance in a single health system. It has and this law is in line with the Directive and practice and customs in the European Union. This ministry has indeed done its utmost to succeed in the negotiation of the position, i.e. the sisterhood system in the European Union since the recognition of four years of secondary vocational education with the possibility of entering this law into the register, thus also obtaining the status of nurse for care until further education is possible. The inaccuracy that the ministry did not cooperate with other associations. I can tell you that in the Croatian Parliament alone here in front of the Health Committee we received HUMS, heard that the ministry was working with other associations. And most importantly with the Chamber, which is the top of the profession of associations as the profession of nurses. So, total inaccuracy about everything you've discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73296	Thank you. Correction Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73297	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague and colleagues have corrected the exact same allegations that I was going to correct myself. And I'm also correcting them in the same way, and I'm just still finding that I'm convinced that even fellow Richembergh Beus is completely deceived, because he couldn't speak this convincingly without believing it. So this is absolutely one delusion by an anti-sister and anti-medical lobby, and God forbid some kind of doctoral lobby is working against nurses. It's really one of the delusions that you went into, and I'm sorry that you accepted it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73298	Thank you. The Secretary of State of State, Mr Ante Plasimir Golem, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73299	Mr. President and the distinguished ladies and gentlemen. So I really believe that it was all said in good faith because I'm going to explain a few things. It can't be said that on the side of some doctoral lobby would be considered to the sisters... when this law and I can say yes, I'm proud and if it can be considered one small thank-you sisters for their work then I think it's this law even though it's not timed on today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He came only in his own order. But that exactly we introduced and that for the first time in the Law on the Republic of Croatia since the history of Croatian sorority there is a master's degree of sisterhood, sisterhood as science, the possibility of further education then I think that we have given one great prize, one great thank-you not reward, thanks to the sisters. If we say it's not a service, it's a doctor's profession. And the other thing, if we say that all those sisters with this legal proposal that they've completed, let's say we're going to have one module, a science module, and we're going to allow them to become masters of the sorority, then we think we really thank the sisters that way. But if we also say that more than 50% of the European Union's countries have the same level of education for the primary education of nurses, then what you say will be a problem, that they will come to Croatia with higher education competing with our sisters it does not suit the truth. Because if we can expect that the emigration of nurses will come to Croatia, then believe me, they come from countries that are lower economic conditions, the countries of the European Union lower economic situation than Croatia, in which exactly the basic sisterhood is at the lowest level, or in Poland, there is none. Or when he says it's about associations. I'm not asking for a consensus, because we've spoken to the profession. We listened to the profession and modulated that what was required of the profession to comply with our obligations according to the directives, and that among 32000 people would be different thoughts. And I can say freely from here I got this pamphlet that came, the pamphlet from I'm going to tell the person by the name and last name that we offered cooperation four years ago when we went into all this together, when we supported as a ministry to establish some kind of national sistership alliance, because we want the development of civil society. But go to confrontate this, the group as a professional association with public authorities, the Croatian Chamber of Nurses and medical technicians I don't think even this is the Association Act, because the Croatian Chamber of Medical Sisters is not founded under the Law on Associations, but by the Law on Sisterhood, and that's the difference. And to add more, because there were others, so it is true that there will always be objections. I will only add one more example to you then, among you is also divided and concerned, that this law abolishs a professional study, and I make it clear to you in the name of the promoter, in its personal name that it does not correspond absolutely to the truth, but that, by equating the first degree from the level of university or professional, we have done the equalization of the first degree exactly the opposite part, and that is what we have given broad wings to professional studies for their further development. So if all of this was done together to keep the sisters from serving, then I can really say that you have bought a pamphlet that's made a big broad, today it's thanks to God there's the Internet, and it certainly doesn't fit what the sisters in Croatia want. 20,000 nurses on the day of Croatia's entry into the European Union automatically become nurses, as well as first-rate nurses have automatically recognised this status of the championship, and what needs to be done by me not to run away should be done. And it needs to be ensured that in one period of 10 to 15 years nurses are all high-level, but not that today the nurses who work in Croatia are not recognized, because there is someone's opinion that they should not have recognised 20 thousand nurses, but we should have said not only do we recognise those who have completed a professional study, and these 20 thousand let's call them nurses or something else. Now, that's what we got with this whole thing, and so if you said it and you said it well, and I thank you for saying, this is just one thank you, when it turns out to be, that day after the day of the Croatian sorority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73300	Thank you. Before we continue the debate on this agenda point, I would ask and I would like to invite the clubs and thus tell the presidents and vice presidents of the clubs to ensure the presence of representatives and representatives at 12 o'clock, because we will have a vote on the enlargement of the agenda. It is also a vote on agenda points, which we have concluded and discussed. So please, there's plenty of time to organize so we can do this at 12 o'clock. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73301	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. We often hear in the people, and we like to repeat our health is our greatest wealth, but often we become aware of it only when we get sick, and when we get sick or when one of our loved ones gets sick, the first meeting we get with the medical staff is exactly the meeting in the office that we get with our nurse. In addition to providing us with quality, responsible and ethical health care in times of illness, their human approach and attention make it easier for us to find our difficult moments. In Croatia today there are about 32 thousand nurses, who perform sisterly activities, and are licensed to work from the Croatian Chamber of Nurses. Nurses represent the largest group of health workers, or workers. Out of that number, about 22,000 sisters are medium professional training, they have completed a school for nurses, and about 8,000 with a completed sisterhood study, so it is a completed two-year or three-year study. In addition to the above, about 250 nurses graduated from specialist degrees. The training of nurses is carried out on two levels, in high school and higher schools. Today we have 23 secondary schools for nurses, where secondary education is conducted, and until last school year, education lasted 4 years, and since this school year 2010-2011 it is 5 years and it is the only five-year high school in Croatia. In accordance with the Law on Science and Higher Universitys, a professional study such as a sorority can be conducted as a professional study of the first level of the Bologna process for 3 years, and a specialist degree study, it is the second level of two more years. We have nine sorority studies. Until last year, all of the studies were conducted a professional study of sisterhood, whether at university or university, and last academic year the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Osijek began with university programmes in Osijek and at a dislocated study in Pregrada. A specialist graduate professional study is conducted only at the health university, in Europe the right to the name of a sister and to conduct a job is obtained through the completion of a first-rate study. In the last 20 years, all European Union countries have increased the education level of nurses from high school to higher schools. People who finish medical schools at high school receive for example. in Slovenia the name is healthcare technician, but only after the completion of the study of a nurse. Education is done depending on the country to the ground, at universities or universities, or at universities and universities. In view of the importance of sister education and coherence in all European Union countries, Directive 36/2005, which included the 1977 Directives, does not specify the level of education, whether it is a secondary school or a study, but only the necessary knowledge, i.e. the items to be passed. The amendment to Directive 36/2005 was planned for 2012 and is planned as a basic level of education to introduce a study of higher education and to define the exit competences that graduates must have. Since this is about amendments and additions to the Law on Sisterhood, which are in line with the said directive and are related to Croatia's accession to the European Union, but also to the fact that this legislative proposal is also about the precise determination of the competencies of a nurse, we are in the HSS Club that it is necessary to clarify Article 5, and based on everything I have said before. We therefore feel that it is necessary to define in Article 5 that a higher level of nursing education is obtained through the completion of a professional or university pre-graduate study of the sorority for nurses. Also a professional or university graduate study of the sorority because we distinguish both both professional and university studies and pre-graduate and graduates in Croatia. We would like to commend the possibility put forward by the proposer of this law in Article 23, which is to enable nurses who have completed or have been able to attend different programmes for obtaining the name of the master of the sisterhood, which the State Secretary also spoke of in detail by the day of entry into force of this law. Also, at the HSS Club, we especially commend Article 2 relating to the possibility of calling on conscience and nurses. Namely, the right to appeal to a doctor's conscience has existed since ancient times. In the Republic of Croatia, this is confirmed by the Code of Medical Ethics and the Law of Medicine of 2002 and 2003. This right comes from democratic right to choice, so, in our opinion, at the HSS club, it should also be provided to nurses. Also, of course at the HSS Club we want to express our gratitude here to all nurses and medical technicians and, of course, we give them our sincere congratulations on the International Sisterhood Day. We believe that this amended and updated law will provide them with greater rights, especially in the segment of education and later progress. And of course, we join all those who support this law. We believe, Secretary of State, that you will accept this remark of ours regarding Article 5 of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73302	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73303	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here's our law, which is before us, which is essentially the harmonisation of the applicable law with the provisions of the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. According to the directive, we have at least three years of regular training. Of course, changes and additions are needed in the area of the education of nurses. As we know 7 professions are actually automatically recognised, the right to work on equal terms. These are study programmes that have actually had to comply with the directives, and they have to be in depth up to an hour per item. Six professions are essentially university education, except for the profession of nurses. The tendency, of course, is to raise the level of sisters, or education to the university level of course. We know that there are about 22,000 resources in healthcare and that from this year on, there has been a change in the basic education system, which is now 5 years old. It's a professional education. And in Osijek, we have a first year of graduate university sisterhood study. This law also adopted competences that speak in Article 13 of the same level of education. So what competence corresponds to what level of education. So these are Articles 13, that is, Article 10. So we have a general education, we have seniors and, of course, masters of the profession. There is a clearly defined level of education, i.e. adequate competence. Article 2 actually speaks of the right to appeal to a conscience which is a constitutional category and we also welcome it. However, we also discussed this on the Committee on Health, and I must now stress that general education is now five years old. We know you can enroll in university studies can be enrolled with a 4-year-old, completed 4-year-old high school. The high school is, of course, four years old. So you can both sign up for first grade. So now the question is, will people then, will there be less quality on that side if you type in another profile? Article 15 has already been in force so far, and I have given one amendment in order to better understand the article, which means that paragraph 2 would be placed under paragraph 1 with the amendment and would read: "In the event of inability to carry out the care procedure, the nurse is obliged to immediately inform the person responsible for this written procedure", and further paragraph 1 would have gone to paragraph 2. This law essentially started in 2003 when it was adopted, the Law on sisterhood, then there was a complementarity when the conditions for EU citizens were laid down on the part relating to the conduct of the traineeship and the passing of the expert exam. And of course we have this amendment when determining the competences of nurses, as well as education that must be aligned with the same. Well then, the master's sisterhood where I must now point out that the scientific work is also being introduced, which is very important to me for the advancement of sisterhood, for the independence and advancement of the sister's profession. I will also mention the Croatian Chamber of Nurses, and today we have heard that there are many objections from the nurses' associations that we have received, here's a colleague from the HNS Club talking about it. However, we had heard of the President of the Chamber of Nurses who had no objections to this law, on the Health Committee, where she commended that this law would improve the profession of nurses. We know that today we have 32 thousand nurses registered in the Chamber register, and now something is happening on that route. The chamber should protect naturally registered nurses and provide them with permanent training in order to maintain acquired knowledge, skills and adopt new ones, and now what is happening here, I repeat, I do not know. When we look through the history of sister education, so we can say that it has a long history starting in 1921 when sister assistants began to be educated in Zagreb, since then it has been through several stages of development and is still developing. Today in the education system of nurses in Croatia are educated in two cycles, the first cycle is a three-year study, these are juniors, and the second cycle provides the possibility of two-year specializations, meaning a graduated nurse. In both cycles of nurses, there are, of course, several colleges where they are educated about the basics of scientific work in the sorority, which, of course, I welcome because it increases their independence in the profession, and also the development of the profession. I'd still like to ask the secretary of state a few questions I've been given, it's my duty as a representative. Okay, these five years of high school, basic education, that's being introduced this year? Okay, you'll answer that. The question and concern of sisters are also raised, what is with the primary education that she has had in high school so far, in my opinion it is explained Article 22, but I would still ask Mr. Secretary of State to explain it one more time. Today you explained, or answered questions about this horizontal or vertical education, which are specializations for nurses that it is a horizontal education or that it is a horizontal competence, and that professional study is a vertical education. Here's another thing I'm going to read is the remarks I received this morning, and that, on page 9, among other things, it says that the middle sister is applying emergency medical procedures, developing independence, and basically she shouldn't be on her own and should only be in charge of primary care, she shouldn't be involved in medical care planning, and I quote what I got. That's where you're supposed to be, Secretary of State. And I have still received from Mr Mladen Havelka, a professor, and I will read part of the explanation: Since the directive only prescribes the basic education of nurses and not more levels of education is not necessary because of the reason why the proposed law will regulate the higher education of nurses and, in particular, given the fact that there is a draft draft law on higher education which will regulate the overall higher education in the Republic of Croatia and thus the higher education of nurses. The present proposal of Article 5 for no reason prejudges the future structure of higher education in the Republic of Croatia, so it would be reasonable and logical to wait for the adoption of a parent law on higher education and then to comply with the provisions of this Act with the provisions of the new law on higher education. I'd like to ask you nicely to read this too. And now my thoughts, besides Split, Rijeka, Zagreb, Osijek, we have a whole series of sisterhood studies. I wonder if there are any conditions for all, according to my knowledge one city has a study with 300 students, maybe I'm wrong, correct me, where teaching takes place in the gym. Are those the right conditions? Is it perhaps a violation of the university's profession? From this I must conclude it is not clear to me that I repeat the ratio of the chamber, because we have told the Chamber all the best, on the other hand the Association has its observations, the Associations are looking to raise the level of basic education to the first grade and I believe that all these remarks and all this we have heard in previous discussions can not only be based on the Ministry of Health but that there should be good co-operation with the Ministry of Education because it should actually be included in this law now. Here, of course, I join the congratulations of Sisterhood Day with all due respect to this profession and thanks and sincere congratulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73304	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First in an individual debate, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73305	I thank Mr. President and join all those who have welcomed this Law as one contribution to the regulation of the job of occupation, the activity of a sister who is very important in the health system and who has actually shown one great responsibility and contribution both during the war and which shows the same contribution and now in peace and I join those who have congratulated sisters, or all people who are engaged in the health profession today. Also, here we could hear from Mr. Secretary of State and rightly emphasized the long and quality tradition of education in Croatia when it comes to nurses and evidence, and this is actually the level of health care in the Republic of Croatia which rests well on the knowledge actually carried out by nurses. The nurses, it is known, from the territory of Croatia and even Bosnia and Herzegovina were always wanted in European countries because the education in which they were valued and their competences were also appreciated. However, new circumstances, I would say, and new needs raise the issue and new competences and more knowledge in sisterhood, and Europe is very practical there. It does not ask us, as we have heard here in a debate unfortunately that we call our education one way or another or that it is organised in one way or another, but is looking for a minimum education according to the European Union directive. I would say that, requires that we adapt our educational programs or curricula in a way that, in education, one nurse in her education acquires those competences, those skills that are necessary for you and I have said new circumstances and new times. And these new circumstances and new times are times that require better health care, the use of new technical inventions or technologies and actually monitoring and medical care in the best possible way. In this context, in this law, I certainly support and welcome those articles, or those that speak about this. So if we look at article 16 then we will see that actually the nurse of the first grade, which has not been the case so far, has not been the case, plans, organizes, implements, and evaluates the quality of health care or sister care. So it is a completely new element in the health system in Croatia in general, but especially in the sisterhood. So, for the first time, the nurse is involved in assessing the quality of healthcare which is actually a guarantee that that healthcare care will be constantly monitored, constantly improved, and constantly in this one round will actually be conducted this follow-up and improvement of quality. On the other hand, if we look also at the following article, it is provided for a master’s nurse to conduct education of all levels of nurses in accordance with the rules on higher education. So we created conditions, we created opportunities for nurses to be educated and to pass on their own knowledge to nurses. As important as doctors are in the education of nurses, they will continue to have that place, however, the health care professional provided by the nurse is crucial. Another component has been added to this, which is that this sister is also carrying out scientific work. So the medical profession itself, or the sisterhood, is based on science, and so this is one newspaper in all of this, which I also welcome. Also, the Master’s sister, standing here clearly manages the quality system of healthcare and sister care and evaluation of the development of healthcare. If we also look at another article, which is Article 2 which actually defines the appeal of conscience. He's also a newspaper, as I understand it, I think it's a newspaper in this law and he's actually giving his sister the right to, in a certain procedure if he's contrary to her belief and her acceptance of a certain procedure can be called for by the appeal of conscience, actually refuse to perform something in medicine that is not in line with her conscience. I think it's very important. He would return to that quality, i.e. the quality control of care in the sisterhood that is highlighted is of particular importance, and this is also defined in Article 3, which states that health care or sister care, that it is a public activity and that it is subject to control of compliance with the standards of education and quality of healthcare. He means health care. The Agency for Quality in Health and Accreditation in the Implementation of the Quality of Health Care System has also adopted a health care standard as an accreditation standard for hospitals and it is therefore known that in Croatia 10 hospitals will be accredited, i.e. 10 healthcare institutions where, I repeat, it is very important that the health care is included as an accreditation standard. So, all of these so far steps here by our colleagues who spoke of this bill as a contribution to the development of the sister's profession were I would have said one incentive more and only one step that really stood aside from all the others was indeed, I think it was based unfortunately on misinformation. And in any case, it's good that it's not like we heard here from a colleague who spoke for a club when he said it was about a law that was actually contrary to the interest of sisters. Finally, I would also like to emphasise the importance of this ministry that has contributed to having one such law now and in a certain way I would also like to thank the secretary of state who, in negotiations with the European Union, has negotiated that a European interest is already recognised in Croatia, a recognised professional European interest which is in fact a confirmation and importance of the importance of nurses, one of the knowledge that they have, but it is a confirmation and rules that indeed, as my colleague Marija Burić Pejcinovic once said, entering Europe is not an invitation to dance in the Elisha Palace, but a persistent and systematic struggle for her place in the sun in the European Union. Here I think this is a good example of how you can negotiate for your people to take that place under the sun in Europe. Once again my thanks to the Ministry of Law. Congratulations to all nurses in the Republic of Croatia and thanks for everything they do to all patients in the system and for doing both during the war and what they are doing now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73306	Now, at 10.54, the time for 10 minutes will end. Now we have two replicas. First is Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73307	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I can also join in praising this law, as my colleague Bagaric said. And I would use this replica to say that it is true, that we are satisfied with this law and I am glad that almost all speakers have praised this law. We know how important nurses are in our health care work. Without them, the system can't work. Our patients cannot get care as needed today especially when staying in hospitals, in institutions shortened to a minimum and the recovery of our patients depends precisely on the knowledge and education of our sisters. I would also use this replica to explain that these are not sisters that we call dental assistants or dental assistants because we don't have school for dental assistants, but in dentistry we hire nurses. Today, dental offices or dental offices work both nurses and dental technicians and people of some other professions because there is no school for dental assistants in Croatia. I hope so, and the secretary of state said it would be covered by another law, dental law. The Ministry of Health will also try to establish a school for dental assistants in due time, which will greatly help develop dental professions in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73308	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73309	Dear colleague Bagarić, you have pointed out several times the importance of both this law and many other laws regarding hospital accreditation and the quality of hospital work. And now in this context, when we talk about quality infrastructure, I would use the situation to express my regrets here and Mr. Secretary of State is here that in the accreditation of hospitals that strictly speaking is in fact the authorisation of hospitals non-accredit is not as a condition involved and accreditation of medical and biomedical laboratories according to international norm 15189. So, which refers precisely to the knowledge, skills and competences of medical and biomedical laboratories. In the Republic of Croatia, we have several hospitals and public health services that have been accredited according to this standard, making them more recognizable and recognizable in the international environment. All studies conducted in these laboratories are valid everywhere and in Europe. I'm saying, it's a very, very shame that it's not recognized by the Ministry of Health to be one of the conditions and not just an extenuating circumstance in the accreditation of hospitals. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73310	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73311	Thanks, buddy. You know that, so accreditation is actually in its own way a confirmation of credibility. So it's actually a confirmation that you have the credibility to carry out what you express, which you show certain competences for. Therefore, in Croatia accreditation is envisaged primarily as a voluntary procedure. So it doesn't mean that an institution unless it's accredited and it's not quality. On the other hand, the process of accreditation in health is open to all health institutions that show the need for this procedure and in any case it is encouraging, so what you have said is that simply all those involved in the health system are involved, i.e. subject to the accreditation system as their own credibility and that is, above all, because of themselves, as I don't know, i.e. hotels have stars two, three or not know how many. Then certainly accreditation of any establishment that works will actually be a confirmation of its credibility and the criterion in its own way will measure its importance, its strength both in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but so on the international level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73312	Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73313	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, as we have already heard in the debate all praises of this law, the Law of Sisterhood, which was passed in 2003, and it has actually arranged the way it works. Then the standard of education, conditions for carrying out activities, quality control and supervision of the work of nurses. In 2008, the adoption of amendments, i.e. the addition of the Law on Sisterhood, came in order to bring the acquis into line with the acquis of the European Union, in relation to the conduct of the traineeship and the passing of the expert examination. These existing amendments and additions to the Law on Sisterhood are precisely designed to determine competences according to the levels of medical nurses' education. These changes are necessary for the recognition of professional qualifications in relation to education and the part-time work. The training of nurses we also heard includes at least three years of vocational education, representing 4600 hours of theoretical and practical education. The basic education of nurses is achieved by the successful completion of vocational education, and we also heard the possibility of schooling at all levels. It is essential that sisterly work is raised to the level of university study, and a good plan should be made, and sisters in Croatia deserve to be educated because there are about 22,000 of them in the system. We have already proved the competencies of nurses, it is also repeatedly highlighted through the debate, but the well-being of Croatian citizens and citizens is also in the fact that the work of nurses in general is rising to the level of the championship. Medical nurses' education in teaching and scientific work has also been made possible. The bill introduces and calls for conscience, as doctors do, and of course it is a constitutional category. So the level of education and competences are well worked out. It should be said that, which is very important that the Chamber of Nurses is also satisfied with this bill, which is also one of the reasons why I will vote personally for the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73314	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73315	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the main characteristics of every health system, including ours, are certainly quality and availability, which are, by the way, expressed at world scale and European in very high regular numbers. It is unnecessary to say how important nurses are in this availability and quality, given the time they spend with patients, we have heard how many they work in the healthcare system 22 thousand, the rest of them work in welfare centres and elsewhere. Of course, the sisterhood also has a long tradition, we've heard since 1921, and our sisters have gone to the world and other institutions to be recognized, and they're wanted. Surely, such an important and important profession must be regulated legally, and there is a 2003 law that makes it very clear that education, standards of education, and quality control, professional supervision and everything else is spoken of. This law has been amended in 2008, so where we are talking, we remember, therefore, the traineeship, the expert exam and therefore, which does not matter in the European Union. But as we are thus harmonising our legislation with European Union legislation, this is about the 2006 directive, so in that part we must also regulate this and the minimum education therefore and the competence of nurses with these amendments. It is certainly commendable that our negotiators have managed to resolve this moment in this part of the five years so that our sisters do not find themselves, as they have, for example. from Poland or I think that Slovenia, the Czech Republic, has found themselves in one situation and will therefore recognise the status of the nurse of general care. It's been said a lot about all these moments, so about the minimum education, about those 4 thousand 600 hours so theoretical and practical work, which is important, so education to the level of the first degree and the master's degree of sisterhood, and there is very important of course to underline that each level has its own competences. That's very clear, and in that part now that I'm counting it would take too long, mostly everything's said, and I don't think I'd repeat it. I would underline just a few moments that I hold important, which is, of course, that the sister's chamber, which is one of the strongest chambers in our country, is very much welcoming these amendments and additions to the sisterhood law, which I've already spoken of in my correction. Furthermore, several of these articles that further improve this very important area, that is, Article 2, so the call for conscience, Article 15, also speaks of, in terms of responsibility. But I would also mention perhaps these articles from 21st to 23rd that, as well as health care professionals working on other jobs, are recognized as being. I think it's very important, because there was everything there, that they worked in various areas, but I think it'll help and improve in some way. And therefore, by harmonising all in all compliance with European Union legislation, of course, that this law on our domestic territory will improve this important area, and for this reason I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73316	Thank you. Final review, Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73317	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me at the end of today's debate answer the questions asked. I'll try to be as brief as possible, as clear as possible and as precise as possible. It is true, then, that during the debate on committees, what will happen is different from those students who graduate from the vocational school acquired the European interest of the nurse and decided to continue the study programme, compared to those who enter the study programme from the general school. I have to especially stress there is another model, namely the next one. The Minimum Directive says 4 thousand 600 hours of teaching, those sisters who come into the study programme, means a professional or university study, these sisters are recognised through ECTS points, so that the first part of the pre-graduate study in the plan will make it shorter, thus equating the timers coming from general education, means general high school, and that during the three years of the study programme they have to get to say 4000 600 hours, means to acquire those competences, so that in any case those who are enrolled in vocational schools that work today say vocational school so they are not even with the others, they have not seen so two key factors. First that education lasted five years today, only we called it a traineeship and a professional exam, and second that during the course of those who continued to study will be valued by having an advance, because they had already gained the interest of the nurse. That's one thing. The second thing, clearly and loudly, and I thank this possibility by giving a clear answer, so about 20 thousand mid-sisters working in the Republic of Croatia at the moment, from this moment on by adopting this law and the day of entry into the European Union are nurses of the European Union, which means all competences have and have all the rights. That should be said for another reason. It's always said that there are other thoughts, other associations, other this, other that, but I'll mention then here's the first thing. The Croatian Chamber of Nurses has been monitoring and monitoring the process all the time, and when they felt that it might not be quite in the best way something articulated, we had what we would say to a quality criticism that was even made public. On the other hand, there is also a category of those, and these are our trade unions that have to worry about the equal status of our employees who, as you notice, are also in some way we can say by silence, but supported. Why do I say it that way? Well, it's precisely because the confession of nurses retains their acquired labour rights. Because otherwise it's accepted that what's a smaller group that is, I'll say this pamphlet again, now I'm going to give you one more look at that pamphlet in front of the National Federation of Sisterhood who signs and also the Association of Informatics at the sorority who signs. When you see that he's signing the same person, then you realize that it's about those who are, they might have their own legitimate interest. But what I'm trying to say is that what I'm trying to say is that the sisters were just about to get that recognition, not that by the day of Croatia's entry into the EU, 20 thousand nurses would not only not be nurses but would lose their labour rights. And that's why this is crucial. And that's why I also thought that since I don't believe that there is anyone in this hall or anyone in Croatia who doesn't appreciate the sacrificed work of nurses, not that we have around this consensus, but that on behalf of that, it will be supported by a law that first and first just turns the sisterhood towards the sisterhood not according to the doctorate, which would say for reasons why the sisters of this system, introduced by a university study of education, will continue during the course of the study to be conducted by nurses. That means exactly the opposite of what was mentioned here today. So that we couldn't do all of this if it wasn't for the extraordinary cooperation of the Ministry of Health with the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, that we could also tell the agencies in the field of science, so we'll make it clear that you know that there's a binary system and that there's been stories about what's going to happen. Biomedicine has its own speciality and we managed to show this particularity, prove and thus get support in one period of time that professional and university studies in that undergraduate part, meaning in that biomedicine championship, or in the sorority, can come to this level so that we can recognize them equally. For the accreditation of laboratories, I must say that the accreditation of laboratories in Croatia is being conducted. In procedures where it will work, and according to the certificates, in procedures where accreditation will be done completely health systems and hospitals, then we will be able to admit it as such. And perhaps a professional question that has been raised here, so how is a nurse general taking part in the planning, preparation and implementation of basic nursing care or taking part in the planning, preparation and implementation of medical technical procedures of the healthy. Look, that's the essence of the skills and competences that they've acquired, and let's say, unlike that, the nurse's first grader who's right in the next item except that she's doing all the same thing together and oversees the process of doing these what the nurses of general care would say. And as for the emergency situation, it means that he recognizes a life-threatening patient, it's a nurse's competence, and he's using emergency medical procedures according to his competences. Maybe I'll add one of the little ones in my life. Last Saturday, unfortunately, I witnessed a tragedy in a car accident and the ambulance came in and the nurse did her part of the job, and I did my part of the job as a doctor, the driver of my job. And we confess that skill and competence to her. What part of her job was that? Let's say we set up a venous pathway. What is the establishment of a venous path? So he's preparing the infusion and everything for those who aren't in medicine. So it's professional stuff. I must admit to these competences that neither the European Commission has objected. These are the competences that belong to their education, and therefore I believe and I expect here, despite perhaps little consideration about who should be, and who should not support such a law, to say that as a ministry we are satisfied, regardless of the criticism we have received and which we get, satisfied in the principle that the Croatian Chamber of Nurses does not choose funds when it comes to protecting the interests of the sisterhood as neither the unions choose. And that when we manage to get a proposal like this together that goes definitely solely in favour of the sisters to support it. And as for this one, they can only say to the people, which is a hundred people, which is a sight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73318	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73319	The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sisterhood was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 805 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Care, representative Davor Huška and representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. I would like to ask the representative of Mr. Secretary of State Antu Zvonimir Golem to point first at the amendment of the Committee on Health and Social Care, that is to say, Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73320	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73321	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Then, Davor's House of Representatives on Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73322	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73323	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Then, Ms Tatjane Šimac-Bonačić on Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73324	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73325	It becomes an integral part of the bill. So please join in and vote on the bill and amendments that have been adopted. Here you go. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority, 79 votes for, 14 abstentions and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73326	We will still discuss one point today, - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Ante Mandaric will further explain the proposal. ... Zoran Šikić, yes, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here is a draft proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act with the final proposal for a law new to the Nature Protection Act, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2005, which was updated in 2008. The applicable law regulates the system of protection and full conservation of nature and its values. It should also be recalled this occasion that the Republic of Croatia is one of the richest countries in Europe. This diversity is shaped thanks to natural circumstances and is preserved thanks to the historic efforts of many Croatian enthusiasts to protect nature, but also thanks to the organised institutional and legislative framework that is now in line with EU legislation. Protected and preserved nature will ensure the sustainability of fundamental values and potential for further development of the Republic of Croatia, as well as its affirmation in the European environment as a country with developed awareness of the meaning of conservation of natural wealth and which provides smart, thoughtful and sustainable use of multiple development opportunities. As regards the accession process of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and by harmonising the rules of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU as one of the measures in Chapter 23. – The judiciary and fundamental rights are provided for an analysis of the compliance of the provisions of the law with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Following the results of the harmonisation analysis and the Nature Protection Act, the provisions laid down in the General Administrative Procedure Act, such as the regulation of the appeal period, the possibility of starting the administrative dispute, the determination of the party in the procedure and the deadlines for the adoption of the oral solution were deleted. In view of the fact that the General Administrative Procedure Act provides for the possibility of adopting a solution without prior declaration by the Party, this law prescribes procedures where possible, such as the declaration of protected traditional domesticated property, the establishment of preventive protection and cases where the inspection procedure is terminated or the administrative measure is imposed. The Act on the Protection of Nature is also in line with the provisions of the Criminal Law in the section authorised by the Inspector for the Protection of Nature to initiate the infringement procedure by submitting the indictment proposal and in the section in which the fine is prescribed. Furthermore, the provisions of the Nature Protection Act are in line with the amendments and additions to the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in relation to the paper in academic titles and titles, prescribing conditions for inspectors. As a result of significant technological innovations, there was the possibility that a cartographic representation of a protected area that has so far been conducted in analogue form of water and in digital form as a technical quality that is foreseen by amendments and additions to the Law. It shall also be prescribed to provide a declaration act and to the competent regional cataster office for the purpose of registering a special legal regime in the protected area. Here is so much, I ask you ladies and gentlemen of Parliament to support these amendments and complements, and all I want to add is that already the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee in part of the nomotechnical explanation the Proposer accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73328	Thank you. Environmental Protection Committee, Chairman of the Committee of the Representatives, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73329	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, State Secretary. The environmental protection committee shall be based on Article 138. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as a home working body, with the basic intensity of the harmonisation of the Nature Protection Act with the General Administrative Procedure Act, other minor changes were made to align with the new title of academic titles as well as some provisions of the Criminal Act. The discussion, which followed on the Committee, praised the intention of bringing the Nature Protection Act into line with new technological opportunities such as the obligation to display cartographic representations of the protected area and digitally and with a view to a simpler way of accessing data to all interested parties. A debate on the state of nature protection in the Republic of Croatia, such as the status of the declaration of Moslavina Gora regional park, or the status of interstate regional park along the Una River, was also held. The debate highlights the importance of a good relationship between nature protection regimes and the need for local population and economy in order to motivate locals to stay in rural areas in protected areas and act in a positive way on the sustainable development of the area. After the debate, the Environment Protection Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73330	Thank you. I'm opening a debate, the SDP representative's club, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73331	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Secretary of State. At the very beginning of the presentation on this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Nature to which this Law is brought into line with the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Infringement Act, the Law on Scientific Activity, the Higher Education Act, and the text of the law in line with technological developments in the field of digital cartography, I would like to say that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support the adoption of this Act. We will support it even though we are not thrilled with this document that did not cover a whole series of things that should have changed in the current Law. We do not fully understand how to choose the provisions that change this cosmetic and light by correcting the law because not all changes are related to the negotiating chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights as it is actually trying to explain itself to us in the assessment of the situation. For example, although it is resolutely the Ministry of Culture in its response to my parliamentary question from the end of last year, in which I have warned of the indifference from the applicable law on the protection of nature relating to Article 195 which calls for Article 45(5) which does not exist, it has recognised this illogical nature and has been determined that, in the next amendment to the law, Article 45(5) and this provision of the following content in order to protect biodiversity and landscape diversity in all forests, it is necessary to ensure the extension of the cutting of the maturity of the native species of trees, in accordance with the conditions of nature protection which are an integral part of the forest economic base, this proposal for a law is clear that this is not done. We do not understand why this creaminess of the law is not corrected but on this occasion and since this amendment of the Law does not exclusively apply to compliance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Furthermore, the proposal for a new Law repeals the obligation to enter protected natural values, entry-protected values without any logical arguments or explanations, other than a very greek reference in the introduction of the law, which states: "The keeping of the registers of protected areas is prescribed since it has proved impossible to list all protected natural values". For this reason, it has proved impossible to enroll in the register of strict reservations, national parks, special reserves, parks of nature, regional parks, monuments of nature, significant landscapes, park woods, monuments of park architecture, protected plants, fungi and animal properties, including dead specimens of wild properties, their parts and derivatives, promoters of the Resorno Ministry of Culture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia do not speak a word. What are the reasons why it was not possible to list all protected natural values in the register remains an enigmous, and we at the SDP Club believe that MPs and MPs and the Croatian public have the right to hear and know why it was not possible to list all protected natural values. And otherwise, this government seems to have a very big problem with any registration and transparent management of registers, regardless of whether it is a register of defenders, civil servants' registers or registers and registers of protected natural values, databases concerning the area of environmental protection or nature, and this is terrible because it shows that the state administration is unable to do even elementary jobs and tasks. How can we implement active measures to protect natural values or proactive measures to improve the state of nature unless we have even basic information, a picture of so on. Zero conditions for the implementation of such policies and measures. All this points to the conclusion that we are touching nature's resources like blind people. A recent case related to the lake area near Njivica on the island of Krk, which because of its unique types of wet habitats, beauty, landscape and biodiversity is a unique natural oasis, and has exceptional water potential as the source of drinking water for the island of Krk. Wet meadows in this area are an important habitat for many birds, especially during migration, and the entire area of the lake is the habitat of numerous endangered animal and plant species, which are significant in the European scales and declared Natura 2000 species, that is, bar turtles and Easter butterflies. The problem arose when Croatian water machines began to deepen the drain canals in late March to drain the water into local sinks and thus to dry out flood grasses and resulting in consequences for the survival of the lake itself. As a result, the NGO Jezero informed the nature protection inspection that immediately banned further work as the area of the lake is located in the national ecological network, so it is necessary to request a preliminary assessment of the acceptability of procedures for the ecological network. It has been established that the Croatian Waters for the works in question did not have the approval or that the works were illegal. Activists and activists of the Lake Associations then learned and learned that the works were being carried out because the Republic of Croatia had leased the area of the swamp meadows of the Little Olives, although the entire area is located in another water protection zone, which means that any fertilisers are not allowed to be used in that area because of their harmful influence on the water in the lake. In order to make the matter more absurd, it was found that in March 2009 the Nature Public Institute asked the State Nature Protection Institute to include the wider area of the lake in the Natura 2000 European ecological network. The Management Department of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County forwarded the OPG to the family agricultural economy Brozovic, the concessionary, an indication prepared by the state office on the status of the area in the ecological network and the impact of olive groves on the ecological network. According to the information provided by the Association of the National Nature Protection Institute, they have understood their failure and have spotlessly developed a professional basis for the preventive protection of this area, but the competent Ministry of Culture refuses to prevent this valuable natural area from being protected. What does this case indicate? It indicates that the state administration which grants the approval does not have quality data based on which it can even issue assessments of acceptability, consent or solution, which can lead to precisely cardinal failures. Which is why, despite much invested money in the census and cartography, the answer is to which must be given by the Ministry of Culture. Because of this poor situation, we have to ask the question whether the ministry will, once it has admitted that it has not been able to keep a register of protected natural values, be able to keep a significantly simpler register of protected areas and that this register will at all look since its content and manner of conduct under this bill is prescribed by the Minister of the Ministry which has not proved to be up to the task so far. For this reason, the SDP club wants to point out the senselessness of accommodation of nature protection in the Ministry of Culture, which points to incredibly old-fashioned and conservative in the modern world as a completely dominant and absolutely inadequate way of considering nature protection policy. Instead of a proactive, biocentred approach to nature protection policy, this administration shows an anthropocentric, static and conservative approach to nature protection as a space of conservation or conservation of natural values, equated with monumental, human, cultural values, equated with objects or phenomena that serve the exclusive pleasure or benefit of man. Upgrades to this system stemming from the necessity of respect for international conventions and European Directives Natura 2000 cannot be corrected by a systematic error resulting from such a static and outdated approach to nature protection policy. In this proposal for a law, it is possible to read another illogicality relating to Article 25, which provides for the transfer of cartographic images with the limits set out in Article 24(2). The Act on the Protection of Nature in a Digital Form for Protected Areas within a year of the date of entry into force of this Act. We are reminded that we have recently discussed the law confirming the Treaty on the financing of the Natura 2000 ecological network, and this law provides that this loan will finance a pilot digitalisation project for two protected areas. The question arises as to how the digitisation of other areas will be financed within that deadline, given that the assessment of the necessary means for the implementation of the law states that there is no need to provide additional financial resources in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid the state won't be able to comply with the deadline itself with this law because according to the information we have a digitalisation project, it doesn't go very smoothly. In the SDP club, we believe it is necessary to adopt a new Nature Protection Act, much simpler, more modern and more proactive and more enforceable Nature Protection Act, a law in which termology will be implemented consistently and evenly and will not allow for a moduso like this and such interpretation of the law. This bill is a rather illogical creation that points to the fact that the ruling set does not have a prudent nature protection policy and that it is aimlessly lurking in this extremely important area.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73332	Thank you. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Bozo Biskupić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73333	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Nature today is the theme of all topics, on the one hand, because of the great destruction, destruction, and on the other hand, because of the possibility that we can preserve it, to protect it, and this is the topic not only in Croatia but today and throughout the world. For this reason, we should perhaps say a little more words than is common in these amendments and in addition to the Nature Protection Act. Many unknowns, strange changes in nature that we witness every day and to which we always have no answer, of course oblige us to deal with this issue as much as possible. It should then be argued that the Republic of Croatia is one of the richest countries in Europe from a biodiversity perspective, and this diversity is shaped thanks to the natural circumstances and biogeographical conditions which have contributed to the numerous and diversity of land, water, marine and underground habitats and the life that has been developed with them. It's one big feature for a country relatively small surfaces like ours. We consider that a fact, we have one of the most modern laws on nature protection proposed by this government and which is an example not only of countries in our immediate environment but also of many other countries. It is therefore totally incomprehensible in this way to declare this law. And if we think that the senseless accommodation of nature protection in the Ministry of Culture is then of course we must highlight it as our own opinion, not as a general position because since nature, the protection of nature in the Ministry of Culture, which is very much concerned about the protection of cultural heritage, and this is one narrow link between these two important segments of human creation, of course a huge step has been made and great progress precisely in the term of office of this government. In Croatia there is the most significant part of the population of many flora and fauna, threatened at this European level, and despite the high value of nature in Croatia, many of its components are particularly endangered. The red list of endangered species among the analysed plant and animal groups lists 2235 endangered varieties. The threat of species is not only the specificity of the Republic of Croatia, the whole world is struggling to reduce pressure from human activities to nature and the environment, combating the destruction of living organisms that depend on the survival of the human race because they provide both drinking water and fertile soil, pollination of plants, climate stability, to list just some of the roles of living organisms in their natural habitats. We witness daily the result of earth’s natural process disorders that are manifested through certain climate extremes around the world, e.g. through floods, which is the consequence of, among other things, disrespecting natural legality and the roles natural processes play for life on earth. With a desire to encourage the world public to act, for the survival of all living beings on the planet and for ensuring the functions of the eco-system, the United Nations declared last 2010 the International Year of Biodiversity, and is approaching May 22, the day when we mark the International Day of Biodiversity, and the Republic of Croatia marks the same day as Nature Day. Nature protection has a long tradition in Croatia at the end of the 19th century, the first steps in protection were made by Croatian naturalists, foresters and mountaineeres, and systematic work in nature protection takes place until today. Nature is a Croatian heritage and many locations include objects and cultural heritage and natural values that need to be protected. This compound can be seen in an example of national parks such as Brijuni and Mljet where nature protection is a priority, as well as the establishment of protection against cultural goods. However, nature protection has long since emerged from the concept of protected areas, and our goal is to fully preserve biodiversity. It is important to say that since the early 1990s, in most countries, there has been a common classical concept of nature protection primarily related to the management and protection of national parks and other protected parts of nature, as well as protected plant and animal species. By adopting the Convention on Biological Variety in Rio de Janeiro in '92. the concept changes, the concept of nature protection extends to the preservation and protection of overall biodiversity and landscape diversity, and the sustainable use of natural goods. Croatia is also one of the countries that, of course, predicates in respect of the convention. The Nature Protection Act fully regulates the overall protection of nature, i.e. the conservation of biodiversity and landscape diversity. As fundamental documents of the protection of the nature of the law, the strategy and action plan for the protection of the biological and landscape diversity of the Republic of Croatia, adopted by our Assembly in 2008. The Government Programme Strategy of the Republic of Croatia and the Strategic Plan of the Ministry of Culture for the period 2010 to 2012 recognises nature protection and conservation as one of the specific objectives, while the protected and preserved natural goods will ensure the sustainability of fundamental values and potential for further development. The modern concept of nature protection in the Republic of Croatia today is only possible through an integrated approach to nature protection, through intensive cooperation in all sectors, scientific and professional institutions, NGOs and media in the implementation of laws and international conventions. The strategic objective of nature protection is to ensure the sustainable use of biological resources in the Republic of Croatia. The new Nature Protection Act is the only law I don't think our colleague recognized. He needs a good reading. It is also necessary to read the laws of neighbouring countries and see how advanced we are in this as well as its 2009 additions, as well as the sublegal acts fully implement the provisions of the European Union's main regulations in the field of nature protection. These are bird directives and habitat directives, and the aim of these directives is to identify areas that are important for the conservation of endangered habitats and species in the so-called so-called so-called area. favourable status of protection. I've been talking about this great tragedy on Lake Vrana and I think similar tragedies that happen precisely because we don't respect what we should respect. Such sites identified shall be documented through the Natura 2000 Programme, which shall form the basis of all the European ecological network identified as a target. One of the most important mechanisms for the implementation of the Central European Strategy for the Protection of Biological and Regional Varieties. The Natura 2000 Programme should, therefore, complete the programme by the date of accession to the European Union and until then the implementing rules are financed by the PHARE programme and the IPA pre-accession programmes in order to improve their completion. As part of the preparation of the national strategic framework for the use of structural funds, and the operational programmes for the environment were intensely involved in the priority area of the nature protection project above all, the establishment of a system for the implementation of Natura 2000 which we have already talked about in this Higher House these days. Natura 2000 and the European Union's Ecological Network covering areas of importance for the conservation of endangered species and cell types and each Member State of the European Union contributes to the creation of the Natura 2000 network by setting specific areas of protection. Before us is this draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act with the final proposal, which is a novelty of the Nature Protection Act, which was first adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2005 and was updated in 2008. And as we heard in 2009. The applicable law regulates the system of protection of the entire conservation of nature and its values. After a full analysis was carried out, there was a need to comply with certain provisions of the Nature Protection Act with the General Administrative Procedure Act. In the end, however, it should be said that all efforts by international organisations, as well as the concerns of all those who care about nature and nature protection in Croatia, are not enough. Only all together, all together we can save destroyed, establish balance in a disorder, preserve inherited however you turn and believe, however man guards nature I think the truth is reversed because man always destroys it, and nature preserves it. My colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73334	Thank you. The HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73335	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, State Secretary. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act. This is about technical changes, harmonising with the Law on Violations, the Law on Scientific Activity, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, and we think that in this proposal prepared by the Ministry of Culture there really is nothing controversial. However, that this very legislative proposal goes in terms of both faster and more efficient action when it comes to nature protection and what is significant is that a valid display of borders will also be the one in digital form, which is particularly important because of investment and local population. Of course, we are also pleased to announce that the secretary of state is moving with the preparation of a comprehensive Nature Protection Act, because if Croatia has something to be proud of, then these are its protected areas, which are admired by numerous experts, scientists from all over the world, but also many tourists. 12% of the area protected in categories of national parks and nature parks as much as 50% of the area of the Republic of Croatia that will enter the ecological network gives us the right to believe that we really have a special and beautiful country and that in these protected areas we can also build our own development that must naturally be sustainable development, which means that we should encourage those economic activities that create new jobs, protect the social security of employees and protect the environment. Of course, in Croatia, it is extremely important that all these activities that are being undertaken are also directed towards the local population, according to the rural population. Because only if they stay alive in the Croatian village will we be able to say that we really have active protection, not that we are protecting areas just so we can say that we have protected something. I would also like to highlight the active role of the Croatian Peasant Party, when it comes to promoting regional parks in the Republic of Croatia, especially the Mura, Drava, I am pleased that all the obstacles in this segment have been removed, that 5 counties located in the area and Mura and Drava have also received the possibility of a new dimension of development by declaring this regional park, but also the withdrawal of financial resources, which is extremely important, both in terms of the development of eco-agricultural and eco-tourism, but also in terms of municipal and social infrastructure. By running along with colleagues from Hungary for the Biosphere Reserve, I believe we will really get on the world map another very recognizable pearl that we should be proud of. We are pleased and announced by the Ministry of Culture that soon the Government of the Republic of Croatia will find a proposal to declare Moslavačka gora as a regional park, because it has all the elements for it, and it is especially important because of its geological and natural structure, but also its natural resources, especially the location and water reservoir, which are necessary today in the modern world as special and natural resources for which Croatia is extremely proud. The protection of nature, but also environmental protection in the context of sustainable development, has been recognised as a challenge to the modern moment, the HSS is constantly active and present at all levels from state to local, and it is precisely that nature protection and environmental protection that we perceive as a chance to develop all segments of society, and not as something that hinders us in this development. It is precisely because of the philosophy that we advocate, which has been present in the HSS for more than 100 years and which our members live, that HSS is the only real green party in Croatia. What makes one state, it's its space, its population, and its environment. And we need to know this space and that environment of ours to protect and protect Croatia. But we must also be aware that our nature and resources are both economic, tourism and developmental. This is why we do not aim to protect ourselves, but to protect against unplanned, reckless or selfish personal interests, which permanently violate the natural values that we view as a valuable development resource for Croatia. The protection of nature, the natural wealth by which we are recognized in the world and which is the basis for developing other activities that contribute to the general well-being that we are obliged to safeguard and protect for future generations, we recognize as a wealth that we should be proud of, but also as an advantage that is still relatively poor today, and can contribute to the development of other economic potentials in the framework of sustainable development. We therefore consider it necessary in the HSS to establish an effective information system for nature protection as soon as possible, and to improve the existing and active components of this system. As part of the implementation of an effective information system, it is necessary to undertake wider basic scientific research in the field of geology, landscapes, hydrology, and ecology, in particular in areas where no or less data quality is available. We are also committed to strengthening and improving the system of nature protection by taking all the necessary actions to protect such areas and species in accordance with the world's highest standards. We consider it necessary to promote the declaration of protected parts of nature, but also to the extent that it is professionally justified, and contributes to economic development, and benefits to the wider local community. In this regard, in our opinion, we also need to carry out a review of protected areas, carry out observations in land books, and we propose that we establish a single geoinformation system of protected areas, and other natural values as soon as possible. It is generally known that the Croatian Peasant Party opposes the release of living genetically modified organisms into the environment, we are pleased that all counties in Croatia have declared themselves free and said not to such organisms, this is a prerequisite for preserving our biodiversity, but for improving domestic agricultural production and of course for improving tourism. We are also pleased that this initiative is also recognised at the level of our neighbours, with whom Croatia is moving together to declare the Alps-Adria zone free of GMOs. We also believe that it is necessary to demining protected areas in as soon as possible, to put them into operation when it comes to food production and eco tourism. The HSS advocates an integrated approach to nature protection. Today we have an ecological network covering about half of the land territory and more than a third of the sea territory of the Republic of Croatia. A significant part of this network will become part of nature 2000, a network of particularly protected properties and habitats, by entering the European Union. In order to protect such a large area, we need to pay particular attention to the education of the population living in the area, or near the protected area. The basis for protection must be development plans, i.e. management plans for such areas, which will enable the particular local population to have economic and other activities. Only such protection will have the full support of the local population and be a developmental opportunity. Protected areas of nature all together must be recognised as the potential for developing compatible economic and tourism activities in their environment. By developing and encouraging acceptable forms of agriculture with protected areas, we will also ensure the protection of this truly invaluable value of space, and ensure that the tradition of the Croatian village continues in those areas. We stress in HSS the preservation of the indigenous Croatian village, and protection must be for the benefit of local communities and residents. This is important because it is about people who have kept and preserved the Croatian space, who have preserved the identity, faith, costume, song of Croatian people, and these are people who can truly say that they are self-employed, that those who further develop and eco-agricultural and eco tourism, that those who engage in various traditional activities are those who, in addition to creating additional value, are certainly those who have lived in those areas for years, and on us Assembly representatives, but also in the executive authority and legislators, it is to ensure that all possible mechanisms that they truly remain in the Croatian village. In addition to these contributions that I have made stressing the importance of making a comprehensive Nature Protection Act, I would like to once again praise the efforts of the Ministry of Culture, all competent services dealing with nature protection from state to county and local because they are also of course responsible for the excellent state of nature protection in Croatia with the local population that has kept this all these years without which there would be neither protection of nature nor Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73336	Thank you. HNS-HSU representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73337	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This bill harmonises the Nature Protection Act with the Law on General Administrative Procedure, Violation and the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Furthermore, the Nature Protection Act is harmonised with new technological opportunities and a cartographic representation of the protected area is determined in digital form. A further delivery of a declaration act other than the competent court and the competent District Office for Catastre shall be provided for, the introduction of the Register of Protected Areas. And here we will wait for the Secretary of State's explanation why it was not possible to list all protected natural values. Furthermore, it determines who and what levels solutions can be made. We at the HNS-HSU club will support this bill because, apart from harmonising the law with those laws, we keep nature protection to a new, higher, more quality level. Protecting nature protects our own lives and health. Today it is known that we must fight for a harmonious relationship between all living and non-living organisms on earth that exchange matter, energy and information. The eco-centre system is a system of co-existence with the environment that uses all possible achievements to improve itself and enable overall development of course with harmony. And in the end, I will say that we in HNS-HSU as I hope and believe all of you expect new and continuous efforts to regulate these Nature Protection Acts, which, along with valuable individuals and valuable associations in our country, will, through the legal provisions of nature protection and human beings, always almost daily raise to a higher level. Once again, the HNS-HSU club will support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73338	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73339	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, this is one law that may not have included everything, but it certainly needs to be supported. In the context of this law, I would also like to talk about the quality management segment in the context of nature conservation. Namely, you refer here to the certification of forests where under certification it is considered to provide an activity that ensures that an independent third party actually confirms that the economic activity in the forest takes place in a certain manner. Moreover, Article 195 states that a fine of 25 thousand to 200 thousand kuna will punish a legal person if the benefits and masters of forests are contrary to the principles of sustainable development and the principles of forest certification and refer to Article 42(2) and (3). The question arises what about people who are not legal persons, so private forest owners? In practice, it looks like this. People cut down forests and even in areas where no economic basis for forest management has been created. Therefore, even if the forest is his, he must not carry out the cutting there. So that happens up to the naked cut in some regions, for example in Banovina. The Croatian forest where the inspector says listen, I am not in charge of you, please report it to the police. You call the police, and they say, "I'm sorry, but which particle is that?" So if you're a citizen with good intentions, who's fulfilling his civic duty, they're still asking you all the more questions you just can't answer. You ask a forest inspector so for God's sake, how can you not identify that? And he asks me, and how would you do it? Well, nice, I'd take the GPS, I'd locate the particle, I'd go into the ark, and then I'd I.D. the cadastrian particle. And the man says, that's the science fiction of the 21st century, we haven't even imagined it yet, let alone that we can spend it. At the same time Croatian forests and their inspectors have an FTC certificate for, FCC forest management certificate. So they have, they're accredited to lord forests according to strict social and economic standards and that by, accreditation was obtained by Forrest Stewardship County. The question arises who issues forest management certificates within the meaning of your Law. No one has been accredited in Croatia, no one has even established an accreditation scheme so that certificates can be issued. Therefore, I appeal that in the following law that you have announced in your opening address, pay a little more attention to these quality management segments, certification, accreditation certification houses, accreditation of testing laboratories dealing with nature protection because the Croatian accreditation agency has accredited some laboratories dealing with water control, waste management and air protection. The air in the Republic of Croatia is still in urban areas of extremely good quality. We have trained experts and scientists working on air protection. Thank God and much of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is covered by forests such as lungs, oxygen generators, oxygen factories, however, this should remain in the future. The air should certainly be protected but I do not believe that the right solution that is currently in the Republic of Croatia is actual that the State Hydrometeorological Institute is entrusted with the management of all air protection in the Republic of Croatia and then happens in practice that they are not qualified to do so, that they must take subcontractors that are far more skilled and skilled and scientifically subsidized as much as possible and accredited in the sense of the Law adopted by this Assembly. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, these segments are also part of nature protection and should be more strongly highlighted and underlined in this law but systematically. Let us remember that functional quality infrastructure is a prerequisite for the closure of Chapter 1 of the free movement of goods and that there is no full membership in the European Union without it. Unfortunately, I say, in this Law that has been made because of certain technical alignments and which should certainly be supported in a systematic way, this extremely important segment, which I have tried to display in this small example of forest management as one of the most important stones in nature conservation mosaics, has not been solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73340	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Franic, when you talk about the unfair cutting of the forest, or not to tell the thefts in the woods and in the forest land. I believe first of all that... the forest law that has prescribed that private forest owners must have forest management programs but unfortunately the advisory forest service has not done its job in the same size as it should have done, and by amending the Law on Forests when the Forest Advisory Service moved again under Croatia's forests unfortunately, I am afraid that it will not happen now that private forest owners have regular programs, that is one thing. The other problem is precisely in these rural areas, where most of the abandoned agricultural areas, which really does not correspond to the factical situation in the cataster and grantines, where this is led to agricultural areas and in nature are forests. So you have a case that in the case of the introduction into the property, in the lease of agricultural land of finished forests that are led as on cadastrian particles, the ores or pastures are cut down and there is no control over the traffic of this... material. As far as certification of forests is concerned, you are right, that Croatian forests possess this certificate but it is questionable that, with private forest owners, I am not talking about a small hectare of two, but those who are now at 1000 or 500, 600, 1800 hectares in which they will certification it either through the Law on Forests or this Nature Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73342	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73343	That this segment, actually whether it's an older chicken or an egg, is present here as well. Undoubtedly, at least I don't have any doubtful political views, so I don't need to be excluded for God's good reason because of the benign debates. Therefore, it is not disputed that Croatian forests have an FCC certificate to congratulate them on that because it is an extremely demanding certificate which is not easy to obtain, however, the question is who is accredited in the Republic of Croatia for certification of forests within the meaning of this Act. Does this mean that the Croatian accreditation agency should establish a scheme that applies to that too. The Croatian accreditation agency is qualified only to need Mr. State Secretary's signal from the Government to establish this scheme for the certification of forests and not only for legal persons but for all forest owners because the forests do not have borders, whether they are owned by legal persons, the Republic of Croatia or in private hands, they must be protected. And unfortunately, fellow Podnar, these forest laws we accepted certainly weren't a step forward but a step back.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73344	Thank you. And a final review of Mr. Secretary of State Zoran Sikic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73345	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. First of all, I would like to thank you for the support of all the clubs, but at the same time I must say that I am saddened by the argument made by MP Holy because she is unargumented and incorrect. The Croatian nature protection sector is not a boulevard but a regional leader and one of the best in Europe. Furthermore, I must teach my representative that protected natural values consist of protected areas and protected properties. Since yours are prescribed by the rules... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73346	Madam representative, you have not received your word, and you Secretary of State, please be my guest. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73347	Protected areas are important cartographical and what we introduce to the newspaper is the introduction of digital forms. When it comes to Lake Njivica in Krk, the right address and question to be referred is not to the state level but to the county, in the Primorje-Gorski County. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-13-0.u73348	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 749 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and we do not vote on them because they become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 98 votes, together with the amendments adopted.
