ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68338	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. I warmly welcome you all. We're going back to work. Prior to that, the 66th session of the Committee for Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, called for today, Thursday, February 17th, at 10 pm in the Chamber of Ivan Mažuranic, is cancelled, reports the chairman of the Committee, Mršić. We move to the point of the agenda that we have announced, which is - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on money compensation to victims of criminal offences, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 705 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure combines the first and second readings, amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. State Secretary at the Department of Justice, Mr. Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68339	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us an amendment to the Law on Monetary Compensation to Victims of Crimes, but a law that, in its measure, does not change to the scale of its solutions. This is about just, but one important harmonisation, compliance with the Law on General Administrative Procedure, a law that aims to resuscitate a large number of specific areas and procedural rules that have actually been incorporated into Croatian legislation over the past 20 years. This law is thus in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, as regards the form to be applied for in cash compensation, as regards the reasons for the return to the previous situation, as regards the period within which the request is to be decided, and as regards the time limit within which the decision is to be taken, i.e. the solution shall be delivered to the parties and to the competent authorities. The core and summary, it is all process mechanisms that will speed up and shorten the deadlines, thereby speeding up the procedures for the exercise of this right that enables victims of criminal offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68340	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68341	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes with the final draft law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in the procedure of adoption under emergency procedure. This proposal is one in a series of laws that comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In its October 2010 conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia tasked the central authorities of the State Administration to draft amendments and supplement laws from administrative areas, each in its jurisdiction, in order to bring all the laws in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. The law on financial compensation to victims of criminal offences was passed in the Croatian Parliament in 2008, and effective on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. These amendments may apply for the initiation of the procedure, in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, by means of electronic mail, and may also be submitted orally to the minutes. Amendments also bring the issue of return to the past situation into line, and the same may be required for justified reasons. The amendments further align the deadlines for the adoption of a solution, and the deadlines for delivery in accordance with the terms of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In the light of the advance, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Monetary Compensation to Victims of Crimes, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68342	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68343	Thank you very much, Mr. President, respected lawmakers, colleagues and colleagues. According to the proposal for this law, there is compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act in the 5 articles. Here is what the Secretary of State said in these five articles and in these five articles there will be an improvement in this law. The law allows the parties and the electronic pathway to apply for cash compensation to the competent authorities and defines the reasons from which the parties are allowed to return to the previous situation, and, of course, the deadlines for the adoption and delivery of the solution to the party and the competent authorities are reduced. We, at the HNS Club, keep HSU justified to replace words for health in Article 2 and will be replaced by words for justified reasons. However, this raises the question of what will fall into justifiable reasons and whether or not we will create a new problem. I say we agree that this narrow area is expanding for health reasons, but we also don't know how this replacement will be implemented in practice. There's the HNS club, the HSU will support this bill amending the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68344	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68345	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, we have before us an urgent procedure of the draft Act amending the Law on Monetary Compensation and Victims of Crimes, which therefore exclusively proposes its alignment with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2010. Therefore, there are no other issues which are regulated by the law in question but only those related to compliance with the ZUP. It may be an opportunity to recall that the basic law on financial compensation to victims of criminal offences was passed in June 2008, and its adoption was important among other things because it was established as one of the closure criteria of Chapter 24. – Justice, freedom and security of negotiations for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Until then, there has been no right to compensation for victims of violence or a procedure and assumptions for the exercise of that right have been arranged in our legislation. It was also not regulated either the system or the procedure to be applied in the event of damages in cross-border cases. The adoption of the Law on Monetary Compensation to Victims of Crimes in May 2008 preceded the ratification of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes of Violence since 24 November 1983. As regards, in particular, this law, as it has been stated, it is in line with the ZUP in the section relating to the submission of a request initiating the compensation procedure, in such a way that it will be able to submit such a request by written means to the competent authority and orally to the minutes and by electronic mail. The deadlines for the adoption and delivery of a solution shall also be harmonised with the reasons for allowing the parties to return to the previous situation. Therefore, regardless of the very small changes to the law, I think they are important because they will simplify the compensation process and will undoubtedly contribute to greater legal certainty for the citizens, so I will support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68346	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law amending the law on financial compensation to victims of criminal offences. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 705, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Compensation of Victims of Crimes. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 103 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68350	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is a similar legal logic and similar mechanism for harmonising specific legislation with general administrative legislation in the matter of the Law on Courts. And this law does not have many procedural norms related to the general administrative procedure, but they are not irrelevant and should therefore be completed, it was necessary to apply the general legal regime and the derogation in the administrative field of justice. As the law itself states, the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act to the proper application of the General Administrative Procedure and to the conduct of the Judicial Councils should have been completed in a way that the content of the decision on the assessment of the work of the Judge, the deadlines in which the appeal can be made and the handling of the appeal. That part of the matter is fully in line with the great, or general law, of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In addition, harmonisation has also taken place with regard to the appointment and resolution of experts in the appeal procedure, provisions on the appeal procedure have been developed, i.e. the possibility of a administrative dispute before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the law is partly in line with the Law on civil servants in such a way that the responsibility of court officials and deputies is excluded from this law and is left to the subject of the regulation of their own law, the law governing working relations, or official relations in the civil service. This, as with this previous law, also contributes to bringing this legislation into line with the general administrative procedure, in fact improving the EU's accession situation with Chapter 23, but what is most important is increasing and strengthening the legal security of citizens in various administrative areas in almost 100 administrative areas related to the action of public-law bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68351	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68352	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of their presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, they may point out that the HDZ Club will support the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts with the final draft law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in the procedure for the adoption of an emergency procedure. I consider that there really are legitimate reasons for the adoption of this proposal by emergency procedure when we know that the harmonisation of the provisions of specific laws with the General Administrative Procedure Act is one of the criteria for closing Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. This proposal is one in a series of laws that comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, in its October 2010 conclusion, tasked the central authorities of the State Administration to draft amendments and supplement laws from administrative areas to bring all the laws in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Thus, the Law on Courts stipulates that the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act apply to the conduct of the Judicial Councils by this proposal and implements harmonisation in such a way as to prescribe that the assessment decision contains a heading, introduction, saying, justification and guidance on the legal remedy. The provisions of the Law on Courts governing the statement of appeal against the assessment decision shall be harmonised in such a way as to prescribe time limits for the statement of appeal, surrender and delay the effect of the appeal, the conduct and power of the first-degree body in respect of the complaint. The proposal for an amendment regulates that the Supreme Court Council of the Republic of Croatia may reject the appeal as unlawful or unlawful or reject it. The assessment decision shall be annulled either in whole or in part or amended in order to comply with Article 115. The General Administrative Procedure Act. This proposal deletes the provisions on the liability of court officials and deputies since these issues are governed by the Civil Service Act, and court officials have the status of civil servants. Furthermore, it is arranged to apply for the appointment of court interpreters to take a legal remedy against a decision. In view of the above, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support amendments and additions to the Law on Courts as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is also the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the need to comply with the Law on General Administrative Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68353	Thank you. Individually, we have two applications. First is Mr. Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68354	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, we have before us another law on compliance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act adopted by the Croatian Parliament at its session on 27 March 2009 and which entered into force on 1 January 2010. As announced, such laws will be set before us in the coming months, meaning, in accordance with the government's conclusion of 6 October 2010, the government has ordered the competent authorities, so to the ministries, to approach the harmonisation of certain laws with the General Administrative Procedure Act. In particular, as regards these amendments and the addition of the Law on Courts, it is proposed to implement, in the course of the proceedings of the Judicial Councils, the provisions of the ZUP, among other things in the section relating to the declaration, application and handling of the appeal, to supplement the provisions on the content of the judgment on the assessment of the work of judges, and the provisions governing the possibility of a administrative dispute against the Justice Ministry's solution as a secondary body. It is also proposed to align the provisions of this Act relating to the liability of court officials and deputies, who have the status of civil servants with the Civil Service Act in a way that proposes to delete the relevant provisions of this Act, so there is no need to bring them in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Since it is a technical law whose amendments this law complies with the General Administrative Procedure Act, I support its adoption, as well as the emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68355	Thank you. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68356	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. What we say is a technical law that we absolutely need to support, namely, is the harmonisation of the Law on Courts with the law already passed, the Law on General Administrative Procedure and all of course the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which requires the harmonisation of all the laws, where the regulation also applies to the General Administrative Procedure Act. One technical law that needs to be adopted and highlighted is that these two very important laws, especially in a procedural sense, are in line. They shall coordinate in the context of the implementation of the administrative procedure. However, it is important for me to highlight the four basic elements or segments to which the harmonisation relates. In the first instance, the content of the judge's assessment decision should be highlighted, under two deadlines, in which the appeal can be made as a very important procedural legal institute, then, after which the appeal is brought and finally subject to the appeal regulation itself. What is more important to highlight are all those situations where the Ministry of Justice as a secondary administrative body makes its own solutions and, of course, this harmonisation allows legal protection from the administrative court in all those situations where the appeal is not allowed. It means a second-degree solution from the Ministry of Justice, in those procedural legal situations when we have the Institute of Inadmissibility of Appeal, the legal way of protection of interest is opened to you by suing the administrative court of the Republic of Croatia. Since it is a matter of harmonisation, given that it is one technical law, since the essence and basis of this harmonisation is actually the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this law should be supported as well as all those laws that will in this sense have on the benches here, because this job is not finished, there will be more of these harmonisations, all the regulations that require it, and require in the sense of compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68357	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Zoran Piculjan on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68358	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is actually the beginning of alignment with the General Administrative Procedure Act, according to respected fellow MPs and MPs, technical harmonisation. Technically, but very important also in this small segment is important, but it should be expected in the next few dozen laws at least 4, 5, perhaps more substantial alignments, which will cause a perfectly good debate and bring a round system of administrative action and administrative procedure in the Republic of Croatia. I thank the debate and also report to the Parliament that the proposaler is the Government of the Republic of Croatia who accepts the amendment where the amendments to Articles 11 and 12 are uniquely covered. The final bill of law, and that's all the motioner has to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68359	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. 5. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 707, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment committees and we do not vote on them because they become an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 100 votes for, 5 abstentions, nothing against, along with the accepted amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68362	Honored President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. This proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the shortened EBRD for the 5C Completion Project and the loan agreement between the Croatian highways and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the 5C Completion Project. The law confirms the guarantee contract in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and is prescribed to settle the financial obligations which may arise for the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee under the guarantee agreement and the jurisdiction to implement the law. Most importantly, it includes a 12.5km highway on corridor 5C along the northern and southern borders with Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is important that on this south side there is the Metkovic border crossing which is the condition of the Schengen Agreement and it is realised through this loan, and on the north side there is also a bridge over the Svilaj which is financed together to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Costs of financing that bridge each by half bear. Total cost assessment of the total project 131.5m euros. This EBRD loan makes a commitment of 60.63m euros, and a loan of about 60m euros is being prepared with the European Investment Bank. The rest of the funds will be provided by Croatian highways. There is a difference between 120m and 131.5m euros. 23 September 2010. The government of the Republic of Croatia has taken a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the guarantee agreement. The mandated delegation of the Republic of Croatia ended the negotiations. The Minister of Finance signed a loan agreement and this means only giving a guarantee and entering into a guarantee agreement between Croatia and the EBRD, i.e. It confirms everything that has been signed so far. I'm at your disposal if you have any further questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68363	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68364	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. The club of the representatives of the HSS will support the Final Proposal of the Act on the confirmation of the guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the 5C completion project. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank will co-finance the construction of part of a 12.5km highway network along the northern and southern borders with Bosnia and Herzegovina and the northern section 3.5km from the Middles to Svilaj knots, including the bridge across the Sava River and the southern 9km section from the Ploca node to the border of BiH, including the Metkovic border crossing. The value of construction works is estimated at 120m euros and will be financed through a 60m-euro EBRD loan and a 60m-euro EIB. Negotiations with the EBRD have been completed and the signing of the loan agreement and the guarantee contract is expected soon. In the initial phase of the negotiations on the possibility of lending by the EIB and the EBRD. The total value of the EBRD for the construction of 5C corridor in the Republic of Croatia was estimated at 166.3m euros. The estimated value included the cost of designing, buying land and moving installations, building with surveillance equipment and other costs. The EIB and the EBRD will finance only the costs of equipment under the initial negotiations estimated at 120m euros, based on which the EIB and EBRD purchase plan was also developed. The estimated cost of construction and equipment was 109m euros, and the remaining value of 11m euros was related to the cost of additional and unforeseen works. The main change in the cost of construction and equipment relates to the BiH Border Panel node, and this is because the initial assessment was based on an idea solution and included an interregional Metkovic node from which the final phase was abandoned. Following these expectations today, the overall project value is 131.5m euros. The Ploce-border BiH highway node includes the Metkovic border crossing with a merger on the D62 state road in the first phase and a BiH Ploce-border stock in the second phase. The first phase relating to the Metkovic border crossing with a joint on the D62 state road consists of a traffic area, a methkovic border crossing payment with lighting, transport equipment, signalling, a light line, a connection, a water connection and an estimated cost of construction is over 4m euros. It consists of a combined road to D62 with traffic equipment and signalling and an estimated cost of construction is over a million and 600 thousand euros. The reconstruction of D62 with transport equipment, signalling and moving TK installations and assessing the cost of construction is 431 thousand euros, and electricity power supply and water supply of the Metkovic border crossing is over a million euros, the total estimated value of the construction of the first phase of 7.3m euros. The second stage refers to a BiH Ploce-border stock consisting of the main route of the highway from the Ploca node to the borders of BiH. Part of the Ploče tolling roadway Metković and Poezerje resort. The estimated cost of construction is 26.3m euros, then transport equipment, signalling, moving all installations, is an estimate of 15.4m euros. Construction of the building on the main road viaduct Mali Prolog, Viaduct Jakići, Viaduct Ixili, Prozad Angelić, Prez Pozla Gora, Translaz Mioci, Golubinka Transition 1, Golubina 2nd estimate of costs is 12.1m euros, a total of 53.9m euros, and the first and second phases together when we talk about Metkovic, Pločam and the merger on BiH are 61.2m euros. The A5 White Stocks Centres of the BiH Borders and the Sava River Bridge consists of a highway route with a main roadway and a border crossing of Zoljani and the Svilaj node, and the Sava Bridge of 660m length. The site stock is the final share of the A5 highway, it continues on the built-up of Djakovo-Sredanci, ending on the Sava bridge at the BiH border. The length of the procedure is 3 thousand 200 meters. On the middle of the borders of BIH, the following facilities are planned: the bridge in Popovača, two overpasses, the Svilaj and Zoljani node, the front tollway Svilaj, the Svilaj node, the Svilaj border crossing and the route of highways with complete equipment. The highway at the border towards the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina also crosses a wide induction of the Sava River in a kilometre of 88+530.75 with a single construction of a total length of 660m. Two identical buildings are designed for the left and right lanes of highways. The value of total works is 42.4m euros. All of these data are for this reason to actually explain how important this project is for the Republic of Croatia, how important it is in its northern and southern stakeholders, a total of 12.5 km, which will connect the Republic of Croatia in the north and south with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of course it is also an incentive and a kind of economic development. For this reason, the Croatian Peasant Party's club will also support the adoption of this law concerning the 5C corridor completion project in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68365	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Corridor 5C is a European, pan-European corridor, and its part of the border of Hungary with the White monastery, Osijek, Svilaj is the breadth of that corridor. This is in line with the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. So far, two shares have already been built, which is Wednesdays-Djakovo and Đakovo-Osjek about 55km long, which have long been put on the market. It is necessary to continue with the further overall construction of corridor 5C on this section which will now be provided with this contract from Wednesdays to Svilaj, including the bridge across the Sava River with that other part towards Metkovic. The agreement with this 60m-euro loan will begin in the spring of this year, from the Middles to the Svilaj knots and the border from BiH, including the bridge across the Sava River. But in order for that 5C corridor to function fully, it was necessary to build it in other shares. A long-term loan has now been settled to finance the bridge across the Drava River near Osijek, a long-term loan worth 130m euros for the bridge across the Drava River, which will be one of the most beautiful bridges in Croatia. There's project documentation and a building permit like the one at San Francisco. The bids have already been made, an open procurement procedure has been launched, a public procurement procedure for the long-term loan of 130m euros. It's the same payment deadline for 15 years. And according to a successful public competition, the introduction of performers was planned in early April of this year. In early April of this year, the bridge will begin to operate with the connection parts of Osijek. And now we move on to the final part, the second part, it's from Osijek, the White Manastir to the Hungarian border. That's the other one, that's the last stock on this side. The White Manastir-Osjek-Hungarian border is 24.5 km long. The stock already features demining works in the zone of the future regulation of the Drava River. There's a building permit for that stock. Negotiations are under way with the EBRD for a 150m-euro loan to finance the construction of those shares. It's in the final phase. After obtaining credit and approval from the bank, the start of planned work is in the last quarter of this year, in September 2011. Now with this loan and a signed contract for this section, Wednesday-Svilaj with a bridge across the Sava River and the beginning of works on that stock, with the beginning of the work in April this year, with the construction of a bridge across the Drava River and with the beginning of works on the Osijek-Beli Manastir-Majorian border in September 2011. The pan-European VC corridor route from the Croatian-Hungarian border to the Croatian-Bosnian Herzegovina border was completely rounded up and sure that this would mean the achievement of a major project to build the lion's part of the VC corridor. We believe that in the planned and planned deadlines and these works will begin on this section of Wednesday – Svilaj and on the construction of the bridge over Drava in April this year and in the last quarter of this year on this section of Osijek – Beli Manastir – the Hungarian border. And that in the appropriate time limits and those remaining shares of the VC corridor will be completed. Therefore, clearly on the meaning, the very meaning of this VC corridor which connects Southeast Europe as a European corridor, the pan-European corridor which connects North Europe with the Adriatic represents one corner of road transport infrastructure in eastern Croatia. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community also gives full support to this Act confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the completion of the VC corridor project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68367	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68368	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club, Croatia's pensioners' parties, will also support the bill. It is an extremely important infrastructure project for the Republic of Croatia, the completion of the VC corridor in fact part of the completion of the VC corridor from the northern side of the border and the southern side of the border with the neighbouring state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and as we have heard in the previous presentation of Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Seks, that certain and dynamic construction is on a date from Osijek towards the Hungarian border, which says that this share of VC corridor in our country has a certain completion and a number of possibilities, positive things that are carried out by such a very important infrastructure project, which, ultimately, will open up in the neighbouring country a single development opportunity for all regions through which it is going through, and especially when we talk about Luka Ploce. Therefore, there is no reason not to support this bill. There is no reason not to support all the efforts that are going in that direction so this corridor of the toilet doesn't end. And what we, especially at the Croatian People's Party club, want to highlight when we talk about this contract proposal, and these are the very terms of the contract. In particular, we are pleased with Article 3 which discusses the implementation of the project, and in its point (b) of Article 3 which defines which documents the borrower has to submit to the bank, and speaks in Article (b) to prepare and submit the final version of the procurement rules by 30 June 2011 at the latest, we stress the final version of the procurement rules including the control and audit procedures satisfactory for the bank. Since we do not know how to do this ourselves to make the kind of stock of Dugopolje – boards BUSKOK and very likely, I would very probably not want to... but very likely that we had effective, efficient procurement rules, control and audit procedures satisfactory not for the bank but for investors, for Croatian highways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We shouldn't even be raising this loan. Almost certainly, almost certain. Let's take those nonexistent and invoiced crossings for game, resting places and all that. But I repeat, it's a matter of discussion and at this point speaking of this contract it doesn't matter. But given the overall events in the Croatian highways, given the overall events in the Croatian highways that we are witnessing, where part of the management member ended up under investigation and in investigative actions, it is certainly useful for us in the club of the Croatian People's Party, we want to express our special satisfaction that the investor will also have an obligation to deliver the rules of supply and control and audit procedures satisfactory for the bank. C. obtain the approval by 31 October 2011 at the latest of the procurement rules administration and accept it. It's something that's normal, something that's needed and something that every responsible asset owner is looking for. That in some other procurement systems we had for sure that the overall effect when we talk about taxpayers' money would be far lower and certain that the pressure on the work of jumpers and investigative actions would be far lower. D. no later than 12 months after the date on which the procurement rules are accepted in accordance with Section 3a. submit a report to the Bank on the review of the implementation of the procurement rules. I. E. no later than 60 days after the end of each fiscal year, submit to the bank an annual supplement for the exercise of the right to purchase. Therefore, by reading these contractual obligations that the investor has towards the bank. In any case, with one dose of peace, we can enter into, and in this credit relationship and in that investment, hoping that those rules and something that's been going on in the last seven years in the construction of the highway, and the fact is that from four million miles per mile we're almost at 17, almost at 17, it's saying something's wrong. At the end of the investigation, they say that much is wrong in that system. Therefore, among other things, the Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian Party of Retired Party supports this bill. And one thing that doesn't have to, it doesn't have to mean that it will happen, which is a question of the guarantee of the Republic of Croatia towards the Croatian highways. In the matrix of the implementation measures of the 2011-2013 pre-accession economic programme adopted at the 105th meeting of the Government, of 27.1., the Privatisation Section, the policy objective of the preparation of the privatisation plan of all state-owned companies, except for companies providing goods and services, which are not effectively supplied by private sectors for legitimate reasons. Then there are implementing measures where the Government of the Republic of Croatia should also adopt a strategy. Our question is open, and given this attempt to privatise, an attempt to convert Croatian waters into a commercial society and everything that has implicated and I hope that this story is over, at least according to the prime minister's statement, what will happen if Croatian highways enter the privatisation one day? We now entered the privatisation with shipbuilding, and all the guarantees of the Republic of Croatia took over. We hope that there will be no case here, but knowing and bearing in mind something that has been going on and happening, we hope that there will be no case here. I repeat, we hope it doesn't come to that. And once again, the Croatian People's Party club and the Croatian Retired Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68369	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68370	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct two incorrect allegations. First, privatisation of Croatian waters. No one from the government ever said that. So you're talking about it if it only changes the organisational form that it's privatization. I think it is simply incorrect and political, but the use of 2 and a half billion resources available to Croatian waters I think it should be aware of under the rules of international accounting standards, and that when it comes to the institution is not possible, but I say it is for another debate. And secondly, what you've read on the terms of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Credit Authorisation is simply not true. For a simple reason, because I'd be glad to have business banks, when they lend someone credit to set up their own terms and control how the funds are used. Therefore, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank have their own rules for the allocation of funds. Among other things, as far as public procurement is concerned. But it is not only for Croatian highways, but for all institutions. So you can't do something that's normal and that's common in the business of the bank, after all, which we own in part as the Republic of Croatia, to push into some incriminating action that simply isn't, what. ... Look, colleague Koračević, you said something that isn't true, because it can't, whenever you conduct a competition. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68371	Well, I know, but it's been quite a while, so you can finish if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68372	So I think it would be far more correct and better if you said under what favourable conditions Croatia has received credit, and what you have read is common when contracts are concluded between the borrower and the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68373	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Korachević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68374	This Regulation shall enter Actually, my colleague Shuker is correcting something I didn't say, and I said, and I commended exactly what it says in the contract, so I don't know what the correction is. So my colleague Shuker fixed something I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68375	Yeah, 203's out of it, you didn't call for real, Article 203 isn't about this. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Zastavnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68376	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the adoption of this law because we believe it is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia, for citizens and for the development of the economy to speed up the completion of the projects launched to build transport infrastructure. We are particularly pleased that this loan speeds up the completion of an important infrastructure project in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia, because in the last 10 years we have had intensive construction primarily of road corridors, and road infrastructure, in part of Croatia from Sava, i.e. from Karlovac towards the south, while the only road infrastructure we have had is the highway from Zagreb to Gorican, as the only practically important road that has been made in the last 10 years. And this corridor, road corridor VC, is considered extremely important for the development of one, for the development of Croatia as a whole, and especially for one part of Croatia, it is Slavonia. What's good, are good conditions, it's... Plus 1%, where maybe you should just explain what period... [[You don't understand.]] refers, whether quarterly, 6-monthly or annual. [[You don't understand.]] And secondly, it could have been agreed that there was no compensation for the unused amount of loans, because there could be costs because we won't be able to contract, for example, construction, or we won't, in the dynamics that were desirable, be able to withdraw those funds, and we'll have to pay 0.5% of the unused loan that we're going to contract with this law. What we think we need to say here is that, apart from road infrastructure, it would be extremely important for us to define so that the Government in particular, and it would certainly be good for the Parliament to go through, the issue of dynamics, building the rail corridor of the VC. Because the road corridor, or even road transport in European policies, becomes something that is restrictive because in the EU, and certainly also commits to Croatia, it measures CO2 emissions. One of the largest CO2 emissions emissions is transport and this road transport so the capacity for road transport is increased, and the highway is that we will have increased CO2 emissions to the Republic of Croatia in the future. And by accepting Kyoto protocol, we made a commitment not to increase CO2 emissions. As far as Kyoto and Croatia are concerned, we have reached the level where we should no longer increase CO2 emissions, so we used the capacity from Kyoto protocol. And we also need to increase economic activity, which means increasing energy production. Energy essentially increases CO2 emissions other than hydropower plants and nuclear or renewable energy sources. We need to increase economic activity. The increase in economic activity means that more will be produced. Larger production also means increased transport, which means increased CO2 emissions. Which means that in the development of transport infrastructure, we should certainly place a special emphasis on those types of transport that will not emit CO2. It is primarily a railway or intermodality in the transport of goods and passengers. Here we now have a situation so that we will certainly build within a shorter period than we would do with our own funds of the Croatian Roads Road Corridor VC, but we would certainly like to get a much clearer answer or plan on when the railway Corridor VC will be made. And what is very important to us, therefore, is what is the connection of both the road and the rail corridor VC through BiH, because we are not interested in and the purpose of bringing passengers and goods along the road to Corridor X, but the aim is therefore that these goods and passengers continue through Bosnia and for example the goods come to Luke Ploca or be shipped to the market in BiH, i.e. from Luke Ploče to the railway corridor of VC through Croatia and continue their journey through Hungary to Ukraine, Russia or some further destinations. So here we are solving the issue of Corridor VC, but only of course through space, through the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is important to see what will happen with Corridor X because we have part of the restoration of Corridor X. As far as road infrastructure is concerned, it is too slow and burdensome at the moment, but it would also be important to streamline very clear plans on what will happen with Railway Corridor X because unfortunately it is not yet completed "Project ISPA 2004.". This is therefore the restoration of railway infrastructure on the Tovarnik-Vinkovci stock where it is one share. We have the need from Vinkovec to rebuild the railway infrastructure on the corridor to Zagreb and then from Zagreb to the border with Slovenia. Because we know that an agreement has been reached on a joint venture that will ensure the possibility of transporting cargo to Corridor X through Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia, but one of the more difficult factors in the functioning of that company is the state of transport infrastructure, i.e. railway infrastructure on that corridor. In addition, we also have an intermodal transport terminal in Spačva that has been built, in which a lot of money has been invested. However, what we did not do, which is that we did not force regulations or regulations to bring trucks that pollute a strong environment in Croatia and create a serious road safety problem that must necessarily be used by an intermodal transport terminal in Spačva, so this terminal we built and from which we expected very much and where we can ultimately withdraw certain funds because Marko Polo 2 gives us the opportunity to withdraw, not us but carriers, a lot of resources because it simply multiplys a ton of times minus CO2 emissions. So we have that capacity, we have the possibility, but we just don't use it. Which means that it would be necessary for the Government or the Parliament to make a decision to prevent the use of road infrastructure for transport by means of environmental pollution. Unfortunately, we have a situation for such trucks to pass through Croatia and then even avoid the highway, i.e. Corridor X and go to Podravska highway and pollute and increase the danger on the road. And we have a lot of accidents. In the end Podravska highway is known as the "road of death" in Croatia, i.e. the road on which the most is killed. These trucks, when they arrive in Slovenia, then move to Maribor on trains, i.e. trains and through part of Slovenia, i.e. through Austria, have to ride with the railway because Austria, and in part Slovenia, has prevented the possibility that trucks do not know EURO 2, EURO 3, can be used by road infrastructure. So we should look at the problem as a whole. It's not enough and it's only important that we make one piece of one corridor. In addition, we have a problem with the Podravska highway, unfortunately the Podravska highway has fallen a bit into oblivion, except for the part where the roads of some cities are built we de facto have only "Project Betterment", but Project Betterment has made it possible to increase the speeds of this road through the settlements. By doing so, we have not in any way escaped the road from the settlement, nor have we provided the inhabitants of small settlements through Slavonia and Podravina so that they can move more safely. Unfortunately, the design intensity and the construction plan has stopped and we do not have a clear plan when the Adriatic highway will be built in the profile of a fast road outside the settlement, and I think it is an important road road and according to European standards if we are able to design I think we could withdraw some funds from the Regional Development Fund or funds for the regional development of the European Union. In addition to Corridor 5c we also have corridor 5b we can say that it is made because the highway is made, corridor 5b as regards the railway is fully delayed for some future period, for the new budgetary period of the European Union 2013. In 2020, which we believe is late and that first of all, it is a later start and it is even later because in 2020, we cannot afford to end Corridor 5b in the construction of a new line, new railways that we have a two-way track because it will be too late for Luka Rijeka and Croatia as a whole, and I think we need to step up these plans and designs and construction plans, as is a very late reconstruction, i.e. the remont of the Križevci-Koprivnica railway which should have been finished long ago, and it will only start this spring and we hope to finish this spring. As well as increasing the capacity of Corridor 5b with the construction of the railway Žabno-Bjelovar and the connection of Bjelovar, Virovitica is not even late, it is announced that in this pre-election year it will start but this connection Virovitica Bjelovar, Bjelovar Žabno, Žabno Gradec would greatly allow that what will be the development of the economy in the part of Podravina and Slavonia along the river of Drava to be environmentally acceptable and quickly driven to some other corridors and exports from Croatia. It is completely unacceptable that Podravsko Prigorski Ipislon did not start to build, that today we do not have almost finished project documentation, and today we are again announced that 300 million kunas for this contract will be allocated this year, and the contract is worth a billion and 800 million, so if this dynamic was to be built, that Ipislon would not have been finished until the Djakova cloštre in six years, and we are afraid that if such plans remain to be. So, I conclude, we support this Treaty and we support that road corridor 5c in part of Croatia as soon as possible, we believe that this is extremely important, but it must certainly be important for us to develop transport infrastructure and in other parts of Croatia, as we must be extremely important for the development of rail infrastructure, because I repeat the development of road infrastructure and transport primarily by road infrastructure will become difficult and burdensome for Croatia because it will reduce our capacity in some other segments because we have assumed very clear obligations regarding Kyoto protocol and we will make very clear obligations regarding CO2 emissions in the future when we become a member of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68377	Thank you. We have two corrections to the incorrect allegations, first Mr. Representative Josip Djakic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68378	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, counterpart Mršić incorrectly said the Podravska highway was forgotten. Sub-level highway, i.e. Podravska fast road is built in segments of bypasses, North Oblisnica – Virovitica, Slatinska Odravnica, Nashki Odravnica and it will certainly connect in the future these segments of the bypass will surely be an integral part of Podravska fast road that will go from Omrža to Ilok. That's an incorrect quote you've made. And the second is that he cares about the Podravsko bilogora ipsilon. In fact, he's also like you said about 300 million infrastructure facilities on him, but for next year, he's certainly on this entire section for which the documentation was made. And that second section from Bjelovar to Virovitica is doing a study.... which will be completed by half this year and then you will be able to find a concessionary for its further construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68379	Thank you. And another correction by Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68380	Thank you, Mr. President, my colleague Mršić incorrectly stated that the Podravo-Bilogian Ipsilon was not started to work absolutely incorrectly because you personally attended the opening of works, and you also know that an overpass was made in Sugovec which is in that part. You also said that 300 million kuna was secured for this year to continue the work. It is incomprehensible that you speak with understanding of Corridor 5c if there is no means and difficulties, so the dynamics cannot be respected. And you're always talking about our Ipsylon, you're putting in some kind of bricks, and then you say I'm not into that highway, so on and so forth, it doesn't matter whether you are or not. We are, the highway is done and the Podravo-Bilogian Ipsilon continues according to the possibilities and further dynamics, please understand and as we say in Podravina "head set".
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68381	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB Club and Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68382	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It says one saying "beware of the Danes and when the Gifts are wearing" but I don't think so, because right away, I would say that the HDSB Club will be for this proposal of the law on the confirmation of the contract signed last November between the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Croatian Motorways. And for renovation and project completion of Corridor 5c. Corridor 5c is a pan-European corridor connecting by what it is actually more states. So, Corridor 5b, which Mr. Mršić spoke of, goes from Hungary, according to Rijeka, Croatia. Corridor 5c departs from the capital of Ukraine Kiev through Hungary, connects Croatia and exits to the Plocas in Croatia but through Bosnia and Herzegovina, so more countries are included in this Corridor 5c. Why did I say this introductory phrase? According to the statistics provided by the State Statistics Institute, 4 Slavonian counties are the latest according to all economic and economic indicators in the Republic of Croatia. In addition to Osijek-Baranja, which is 12th place, these are 4 at the beginning. And here is the pre-election year Corridor 5C comes to order, after the port so according to the same pattern as the guarantee for Luka Sibenik, Luka Dubrovnik, Luka Zadar, after the restructuring of the shipyard here is 3.6 km from Svilaj to the bridge on the Sava River, guarantees from the Croatian State for the credits of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And when it's realized, where do they lead those three miles? To Bosnian Silk, Odjak? What about the road that should be connected to this 5C Corridor in BiH? Do you know where Corridor 5C came from in BiH and where it is being built? From Sarajevo to Zenica, but it's not even close to Zenica yet. And from Zenica to Svilaj Bosanski and to that bridge on Sava, there are still 180 km. It's not our concern they say, but what are we building? It's like when you dig a vineyard and then you don't dig in order and orderly, but you dig in the front row and then you dig in the back, so you think they'll get bathed before you dig into the middle. That's how we build this road. So we're building a 3.6km full of highway profiles with a bridge on the Sava River that I'm saying again, I don't want to be bad, it's going anywhere. Like that bridge on the Koran Vukelićev which doesn't lead anywhere, so far they say so. So, Corridor 5C, which is spread in its route, says it is situated in a flat ground where the largest hill of pumpkins, so on average cca varies 1.5m, except that the higher embankments in the zone are crossing the Drava and SAV induction areas, and in the zone crossing the existing railway lines, then highway A3, Corridor 10 and passage for larger animals. And the crossing across the railway line, so through the Pan-European corridor it's made, it exists. Crossing over the highway already already existing Corridor 10 of Slavonski Brod-Lipovac, not Bajakovo, which I warn you again here from these benches from this high honorary House, that already once the Government of the Republic of Croatia has changed the MUP title of Bajakovo called Lipovac. Because it doesn't say Bajakovo anywhere but Lipovac writes, so I don't think the border crossing to the 10th corridor is constantly called Bajakovo, not Lipovac in whose catastrian area is the border crossing, customs crossing, etc. But it's not a topic to get Mr. President's notice, I'm going back to Corridor 5C. At the same time, with this gift to the poorest county in the length of 3.6km of highway and bridge on the Sava in the pre-election year, therefore at the same time, there is still a 5C corridor and a 9km-long road that leads from Ploč to the Metkovic border crossing in BiH that I do not say again not to lead anywhere because BiH is not building on that side of the 5C highway for now, but only something is being built from Sarajevo to Mostar and from Sarajevo to Zenica. So here is Mr. Mršić's good debate on the carbon dioxide emissions that I don't speak CO2 in chemical formulas, and therefore the intermodal terminal in Spačva, which is currently almost in A function or is in Hypo function, while it is completely unsurpassed from the Railway Transport Strategy, is such an intermodal terminal in Slavonski Brod, so in Luci Brod, which already has a railway track from the Main Station in Brod to Luke Brod that is not in operation, so instead of planning to reduce CO2 pollution for truck transport to the intermodal terminal and in Spačva, which I don't say is necessary, but also in Slavonski Brod, there's not a single mention of that, because the railway node in Slavonski Brod has been abolished by political decision and moved to Vinkov. So, in order to reduce the CO2 emissions that we are required under the Kyoto Protocol and this should be taken into account in the Railway Development Strategy but clearly also Corridor 5C which crosses the A3 highway, so corridor 10 and this and rail and road traffic. So then this area of the eastern part of the County of Brod-Posavina really becomes like Slavonski Brod itself because of the refinery and insufficient activity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia polluted not only with CO2 but also sulphur dioxide, sulphur dioxide and benzene which is carcinogenic. So it becomes the entire county, or east of Slavonski Brod and Slavonski Brod, in fact, one zone in which we will be wearing gas masks. However, given that Corridor 5C passes through Brod-Posavina County, this forgotten county of everything and everything, this proposal for a law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will be supported. But since you, Mr. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Transport, are clearly suggesting that we can ask you, but there is no further request because it is already clear when you look at the statistics of the State Department on what state the Ship-Posavina County is, that Luka Brod is also located east of Slavonski Brod, downstream and from Slavonski Brod refinery, one of the elements that can be excellent in all of this, and in the railway corridor, pan-European 10th and 5th, so also in corridor 5B, all of this is within a few kilometers. By doing so, the Ship-Posavia County, which normally has excellent transport resources, is well placed on these corridors of the North-South, and mainly the East-West, will finally become some kind of factor, and that finally the state and government of either will understand the values and the county and this eastern part and these traffic routes so that the county and the state will benefit from it, and the citizens. Citizens of the county where the highest unemployment in the Republic of Croatia is for years. Not this year, not 2008, not 2009, 2010 from year to year. Since we are expected to have excellent bridge builders in our county, so to build a bridge across the Sava, but also on the river Drava, as Vice President of the Parliament said, we have excellent experts in the installation. For this reason we expect at least something to start in our county with that already unsaved dream or the biggest pre-election lie and paralyze, the construction of the Danube-Sava channel, here for this one already in the outlines a very clear and defined game in terms of the loan guarantee, HDSSB will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68383	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68384	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I would correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Grubisic about his memory of part of the 5C corridor he mentioned that he is not leading anywhere from the part to go on a date from the hub, so the Mali prolog or Ploče as some call it, or Metkovic towards the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, that's not true because it's the planned part of our construction that's already under construction. I live downstairs so I know the best thing to do down there. And certainly there is a continuation of the planned part in Bosnia and Herzegovina which is then from Zviric where the international node will go further through Ljubusko and Mostar, so it is already there and planned. Therefore, fellow Grubisic, please look at the project documentation and ask a little more questions about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68385	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68386	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In your opening statement, you said that the HDSSB club will support this proposal and then continue your discussion and say what is done over in Bosnia and Herzegovina, just a section of Sarajevo-Zenica or Zenica-Sarajevo and how building these shares means from the Hungarian border towards Osijek or Osijek-Hungarian border, so here from the Middle East, along the bridge in Svilaj, you are questioning the completion of this project in the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, what I'd like to correct, you in your opening part have expressed your suspicion that it wouldn't have worked if it hadn't been for an election year. That absolutely doesn't stand. In the plan of the Croatian highways and in the plan of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the completion of both shares with two bridges, a mountain of overpasses, the employment of a construction operation, steel construction, etc. So it doesn't say that we or someone, the government, did pick it up right in the election year. It's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68387	Mr. Grubisic was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68388	In Article 209, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Djurdjevic is saying what I didn't say, I guess he's saying what he might think I was going to say. By the way, speaking of which, then you know the contract was signed two months ago. Isn't that right, Mr. Djurdjevic? So it's known that it's a pre-election year, you know, but you don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68389	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a debate about whether it's a pre-election year or not, so you've wrongly raised a plate for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I hope the next man who picked it up, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic, won't... He's giving up. And Mr Dragan Vukic, the correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68390	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grubisic said that as far as the southern side of Corridor 5C is concerned, he is not going anywhere. That's not true and that's not true, it's even dangerous to say. He goes to Biač and goes to Zvirović and... and Bijaca and Zvirovići are in the Municipality of Ljubuski and say that they are not going anywhere, and think about Ljubuski is not good, especially for the man from Gruda for these good neighbourly relations in Gruda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the truth is that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ministry of Transport has opened a tender for the first share and the competition is under way from the border to... Thank you very much. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68391	Thank you. No corrections. Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture called the Committee on February 17th, so today at 13:30 in Ivan Mažuranić's hall 84th floor. High education for people with disabilities is the agenda. I also inform you that, in accordance with the relevant article of the Rules of Procedure, it is time to apply from 10 minutes to 10.58 hours. We now move on ladies and gentlemen to an individual debate on this agenda point. And for the sake of orientation, we have 10 individual discussions, so the first female representative is Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68392	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to begin by saying that I will support the adoption of the Guarantee Treaty Act between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the finalisation of the VC corridor project. Since this Treaty includes all the provisions of the standard EBRD terms of 1 October 2007. Since the contract has already been signed, I will not comment on the content of the provisions of the Treaty itself but will stress the effects and effects that this project will have on the development and strengthening of the position of Slavonia and Baranja and the entire eastern Croatia. The transport corridor of the VC is already available from Budapest via Sarajevo to Ploč and will represent, i.e., an exceptional value for the economic and transport integration of the Central European Area, and highway A5 Beli Manastir – Osijek – Svilaj, which is really important for us in Slavonia, is an important part of this international pan-European road corridor VC and part of the European road network which connects northern Europe with the Adriatic. The A5 Beli Manastir – Osijek – Svilaj in the total length of 88 six kilometers has been completed to date in the length of 55.5 km and the first section of the centre – Đakovo was completed in 2007 in the length of 23 km and the second part of Đakovo – Osijek in the length of 32.5 km in 2009. The total value of the shares executed is more than 1.7 billion kuna, and already this finished part represents the road backbone of the eastern part of the country and connects Osijek-Baranja County on the Zagreb – Lipovac highway and for us Slavonca, Slavonke means that we will arrive from Osijek to Zagreb in 2 and a half hours of comfortable and safe driving instead of the four hours of hard, slow and insecure driving on the Podravski highway. The completion of this road corridor of the VC, apart from the shorter, faster and more pleasant journey between the eastern and western, and the northern and southern part of Croatia, will make a significant contribution to the economic development of the areas it is going through, thus allowing us from Slavonia, but not only us but tourists from Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and other northern European countries to reach the Central Adriatic much faster and safer. We will no longer have to cross almost all of Croatia on the highway from Osijek to Split, so over 700 km from about 6 to 8 hours driving as who drives, but somewhere around 300 km in 3 hours. It is also important to say that quality road connection will increase the traffic of goods and provide other secondary benefits in the areas it is going through. The town of Osijek and the entire eastern Slavonia has always been a significant centre, a crossroads on the road to the exchange of goods in the east and west, the north and the south. Osijek is today a modern city, a Central European city with many different natural, tourist resources and has enviable economic and human potentials for all kinds of development. This traffic route, therefore, will give a significant boost to the development of tourist sites of which the most prominent nature park Kopački rit, Bizovačka spa, the town of Osijek itself and many other smaller towns near the Valpovo corridor, Đakovo, Beli Manastir, Nasice and others. That this is also the fact that connecting Osijek with Zagreb with the modern highway has contributed to reviving economic activity, increasing the number of tourists and developing rural tourism in this part of Croatia. A better transport connection has certainly made it possible to slaughter goods faster and attract investors and entrepreneurs from other parts of Croatia and abroad because of a number of comparative advantages this area offers such as raw materials prices, accessibility to natural resources, lower labour prices and various tax breaks. These are just some of the reasons why I want corridor C to continue to be built especially in the area of Osijek, the White Manastir and Hungary. So, all over Croatia. Here are the reasons why I will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68393	Thank you. Then, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68394	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here, I wanted to get involved in a debate about this topic. In this morning's debate, most speakers are concentrated in the north and Slavonia and on the effects this corridor will have for the north and east of Croatia. I think this is a very important corridor that will significantly affect the situation in transport in the Croatian south. This is one of the 10 pan-European corridors that were agreed back in '94. years on Crete, then later in Helsinki in '97. Well, sometimes they're called Celtic, sometimes helsinian corridors. And we also know that there are three branches of this five, there's a VA, VB, VC,... in Croatia between Rijeka and Budapest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The VC between Ploč – Sarajevo – Osijek – Budapest and continues towards Ukraine, towards Kiev. This is a very important link between Northern, Central and South Europe, and I believe that it is of utmost importance in the context of the economic and transport integration of Central European space, this corridor of the VC. I want to believe that the train corridor of the VC, as I see from the strategy, will mostly follow the direction of this highway on the VC corridor, which is very important in the context of the Kyoto Protocol and those new protocols that we need to sign on CO2 emissions. What is very important is the dynamics of the works in Bosnia and Herzegovina that were discussed this morning. In Bosnia and Herzegovina he passes through, from Croatia he goes to Beli Manastir – Osijek – Đakovo and comes to Bosanski Šamac, Modrica, Doboja, Zenica, Kaknja, Visko, Sarajevo, Konjica, Jablanica, Mostar, Ljubusko na Ploče. Here we are talking about the south 9km section from the Ploca knot to the Bosnia and Herzegovina border, which I consider very important, and I consider very important and dynamic work in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But according to my information, some of the shares are already in competition, and it's a total share of 337 kilometers, of which is 74 kilometers in tunnels, and 30 kilometers on bridges. But the indicative deadline for the whole route, according to the information, is the end of 2013. Also, the indicative deadline for these shares is the beginning, hopefully soon, in a month, and the end in December 2013. What is important is the Schengen border crossing in Metkovic, which is already being built, is almost over. However, I do not think that the role of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development that we are there is irrelevant, we mention here in the meantime, but we know that its great role was, and it is still in Croatia, so this year, I read that about 350m euros are planned to be invested in Croatia, and so far there have been around 150m euros. It was mostly private projects, and 19 loans followed by the state, 3 direct with 55m euros and state guarantees of 523m euros. There were talks about competition, tender conditions, so I had experience with some of the European Bank's loans for Reconstruction and Development in Dubrovnik. They have their own conditions and we can't have much influence on these conditions, there are regulations, rules, and I think that's what the gentleman from the HNS Club said, I don't think it has anything to do with some internal rules, but it has to do with, since we are also a member, one of the founders, the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, that we are, that this is something that has already been prescribed in advance. What I think is important here, as I said at the beginning, is to mention this traffic isolation for the hundredth time in the Croatian south. I think that here in a narrow sense we can talk about the link here of green and blue Croatia, that it will be this corridor VC that will connect Slavonia and South Croatia, Dalmatia, and that it is something that is very important and that we all need to support with joy. But we should also say that we are interested in what will happen after the completion of the construction of the node of that on a small... VC and continue construction of the highway towards Dubrovnik. [[You don't understand.]] That's what we often mention, the other day we heard from our prime minister that we were looking for new models. We in Dubrovnik are very interested in this, and I think we should all look at it regardless of the number of vehicles, regardless of the economic justification and various studies, we should look at the highway towards Dubrovnik in the context of the Adriatic-Ionian Corridor. And that's one of those corridors we talked about, the European corridor plan. And if we don't look at it in the context of that Adriatic-Ionian corridor, then there would never be that line to Dubrovnik, nor should we build it, if we talk about the economic justification of only those shares. So we should look at this issue completely, as some speakers here said this morning, it is the only way for Croatia to really and internally connect and that Croatia becomes important on the European map. I believe it will come to this, that there will be new models, so if you need concessions then and concessions, but in any case the road needs to be built. I think there is also room for cross-border cooperation or cross-border cooperation related to money from European funds, given that we are at the border and you yourself know Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, I believe that if projects were well prepared so that the shares towards Dubrovnik could continue towards Montenegro, Albania, Macedonia could be financed from such funds. And here's one of the proposals, because otherwise I say it's very difficult since it's a demanding stock, with a lot of windows and tunnels, and it's much more expensive, and when it's a story about the price of a mile of construction, it's not the same price no matter what happens, and the fact is not the same price in Slavonia building the road the same through the karst or karsk neighborhood as the south of Dalmatia. In that sense, I would like to say that I support, of course, this proposal to sign a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and I believe that all these deadlines will be respected, and what I particularly want to believe is that the dynamics of construction through Bosnia and Herzegovina will be consistent with our dynamics, and that this road will make sense, and that it will not lead, as someone here has said, anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68395	Thank you. We have one notice, the chairman of the Committee on Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic, informs that today, on February 17th, at the hall of Josip Jelačić, a meeting of the committee will be held. It's Mrs. Biljana Borzana's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68396	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm happy to say that today we're discussing a project that is commendable. She said earlier Mrs. Shuica that most of them are talking more or less about this part, which is a Slavonic section, probably because it's logical and because it's simply important to us in Slavonia. Dalmatia has tourism as a branch that helps to develop Dalmatia, unfortunately in Slavonia agriculture is no longer what it used to be, we are not competitive, and in this sense the road is vital to us. They say that a gift horse is not seen in the teeth, but I must say that this three-and-a-half-mile [3 and a half km] link between Slavonia and that three-and-a-half kilometers [3 and a half km] of Slavonic section of the VC corridor is a pleasure to us, but unfortunately, we'll probably be connected to the rest of the world by 2226. As I said, the road is important to us because it is a war that is hard for the injured part of Croatia who unfortunately did not experience the right, either demographic or economic recovery after the war. In Slavonia and Baranja are used to living away from work, and unfortunately somehow all these years in Croatia there is a cult of unhappiness where, as if it were a shame to be a worker, you can't live off your work, so you send a persevering message to the people, and that's exactly what Slavons are not used to. With us people are used to working, living from their work and living well from this work, but unfortunately here are the systematic ones, in fact neglecting Slavonia and Baranja has led to the fact that this part of Croatia, the people living in it, feel excluded, is said by various research that people in Slavonia and Baranja feel socially excluded, because they are unconnected and in this sense the roads, so the complete Corridor VC would be extremely important. But unfortunately, here we get these 3.5km from the Middle East to Bosnia, which unfortunately is not even close to the work on Corridor VC, and on the other hand to Hungary through Baranja, Hungary, which is in the end of the work, we have no connection. So it would be far more logical to say that it is accessible to road work through Baranja because Baranja is a beautiful part of Croatia which unfortunately systematically falls apart from day to day. So we in Slavonia and Baranja have one date, so to speak, real situations and what we think of ourselves. So we know that we live in an extremely naturally rich region that once fed the entire region, and today we have such a bad situation that, here someone has already spoken before me, 4 Slavonian counties are persistently in the last places regarding GDP, as far as competitiveness is concerned. Osijek-Baranja County stands out as some positive example within Slavonia, but it is also in the second half by those indicators. So, the crash is said in some way of thinking and working. So we're industrious and we have resources, and we're poor. So, a completely illogical situation is happening in Slavonia and Baranja. And of course, such a collision causes an unspective, a sense of imperceptibility and a desire among young people to go after bread as soon as possible. Istra is, say, seven times more developed than Slavonia and Baranja. Of course she did not have a war and was developing in one normal course, but I still think that systematic policy should have tried to equalize certain regions, so we don't have that much bounce. But unfortunately, each time it turns out exactly the other way around. Here, the prime minister recently presented a list of wishes to the public of 30 projects. All 1 of them refers to Slavonia and Baranja. So, there is no will for that part of Croatia to get a little bit, to say the same thing, and any kind of event that is positively sounding out at the end, I saw the title of this item on the agenda – Crediting for Corridor VC thought thank God, and then when I see 3.5 km simply the man is disappointed. So, this isn't for now, this is for now a road that leads nowhere. Do not feel offended by those from BiH, it is simply not according to anywhere in the sense that it is some non-existent place but simply a part of the Balkans that is not yet traffic-related. I'm not gonna be long anymore, most of it's been said and Mršić, on behalf of the club, said what we think about it. I sincerely hope something doesn't get too complicated in the meantime and this isn't some pre-election painting. So, it will all go with its dynamics as announced. And what I can finally conclude is that for Slavonia it would be very nice if the elections were every year because about the last year of the term of office is used for the government to remember Slavonia a little bit and do a few projects, and then we have 3 years again, so to speak, of the dry period when Slavonia remains completely in the second plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68397	Thank you. We have 7 replicas and 2 corrections. The first replica is Mr. Dragutin Bodakosh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68398	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleagues, Borzan, you said that the road that's vital to life today, even though as you said, it's three miles more of that road that's connected to Slavonia and Baranja. For the end, which you said, you also once fed not only Croatia but also not to say the former Yugoslavia, etc., but also to export a lot more in the time of the Austro-Hungarian and other countries of the then empires. However, a road that is certainly a life-important question of how much it will bring to the very development of this area if we do not get into the situation as we were, and recently I read in Cica Grgina's calendar said in 1919 Osijek was the second largest city in Croatia. He had 3 paromlins, 3 furniture factories, a metal factory, a candit sugar factory, silks, textiles, over 900 craft shops. So there was a city that, there weren't such fast roads, but that had the opportunity to do whatever was produced and processed there. And just that part of the processing, what Mrs. Shuica was saying, that link between the green and blue lines, we've been talking about it for a really long time and we've been talking about it. However, this integration will certainly not be if no new resources are created, and what was once Osijek and cities around Osijek is the place where this production will be processed, where one competitive production will be produced and then it will normally be more likely that our production that is in Croatia as such will also be placed on the Adriatic so that it will be used at the end and this road that will be built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68399	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68400	So here's a colleague of Bodakosh you've specifically listed what I've been saying in general. So we were the agricultural and industrial site. The industry is completely, almost completely destroyed, we are left with agriculture. She, uh, obviously can't live with her. She kind of became a burden to everyone. I think that the government fears every little bit of some kind of peasant protest that happens rightly because there is no systematic policy towards agriculture that would lead to agriculture in a more competitive situation. Unfortunately, here is why this road is really important to us as a message from the government that we are not neglected, that we are thought of and a prerequisite for some further development. So we're going to get that base, we're going to send a message to the people that they're not turned off, and then all that further industry, agriculture needs to be developed along the road.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68401	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68402	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleagues Borzan, I must tell you that I am a little bit envious of those 3.5 km roads you will get in Osijek-Baranja County, which is why Virovitica-Podravska County of this project Corridor 5c will have absolutely nothing, and it is a county that is completely isolated from the rest of Croatia and Europe. We know that, according to Virovitica, the construction of the highway Vrbovec, Bjelovar, Virovitica and the road Varazdin – Ilok has been promised for years, too, that Virovitica is not only a road isolated, but also a railway line Virovitica – Kopnica – Zagreb has not been remounted for 30 years already it is already closed. So I wonder how and why we're building in the city of Virovitica entrepreneurship zone in which more than 30 million kunas are invested if we're totally insulated and we don't need to be surprised that investors are coming to Virovitica. It turns out that Virovitica-Podravska County i.e. the town of Virovitica does not belong well towards Osijek or right towards Koprivnica, but after these parliamentary elections, however, the Government of the Left will allow the construction of transport infrastructure in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68403	Thank you. Mrs. Biljana Borzan's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68404	Well, I have to say, my colleagues, you have no idea what to envy because those three kilometers, like I said, you don't look at a horse in your teeth, but this is really small. In fact, I think it's a difficult problem that in Virovitica-Podravska County HDZ is constantly getting good results in the elections, regardless of what is done. So this one feeling as much as we do not invest in that part of Croatia we will get votes again, swings probably government and HDZ but I sincerely hope that the next elections will show the position of Virovitica-Podravska County and people who live in it in a slightly different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68405	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68406	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament was injured by the Rules of Procedure in Article 209 when Mrs. Borzan clearly called in her reply to the replica HDZ Virovitica-Podravska County that nothing was happening to him in that county. It is an absolute notorous delusion of the Croatian electoral body and the abuse of replicas in order to damage itself, and therefore I must react with such a violation of the Rules of Procedure where it is clearly defined that it cannot speak falsely in the replica and deceive the Croatian public. Virovitica-Podravska County bar thanks to HDZ lives, develops, advances, while you have done nothing in your time of 7 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68407	Mr. Representative, I hope that untrues should not only be spoken in replicas but should not be spoken in general, but you have used this replica to respond to this is a replica of the replica, and therefore we will have an extended session of the Assembly at 2 o'clock, among other things, to a little balance our criteria on these issues of replication, correction, violation of the Rules of Procedure and similar things, and in particular not only in replicas but in general we should not speak false things. Okay, thanks, we still have the replica. Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68408	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would agree with one part with the esteemed Mrs. Borzan when she spoke about Slavonia and where Slavonia is located and these are facts, we cannot escape from it and this is not the problem of one party, an individual that is the problem of all of us and we are trying and all together to solve this problem. However, some of the things you said are certainly not standing, be careful to say in 2226 will likely be connected by Slavonia to the rest of the world. Look, through the roads, we are still connected today, perhaps not to the extent we would like, and certainly not to that extent, but to say that in 200 years and more than 200 years we will be connected. If we take the connection through rail traffic, we know that the Vinkovci were the center but one of the biggest hubs in this part of Europe. If we look at in this part that there is a good infrastructure in this area today, that we are connected through this infrastructure and that surely this money that goes through is not enough, but look at the 60 million kuna that comes for these few kilometers will mean a lot to Slavonia. If we rely on hundreds of millions of kunas to come across the water, see how much in Osijek-Baranja County will come only in this year's money, see Vukovar-Srijemska you will see in numbers how much money it means to you, then you can't say that nothing will arrive in Slavonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68409	Thank you, Mrs. Biljana Borzana's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68410	Excuse me, Mr. President. I thank you for the replica it's called metaphorical speech, I didn't mathematically calculate that by 2226 Slavonia will be connected, so the point is that this dynamic of how things go doesn't work out well for us. I say first and foremost, I will now repeat because I see that here, individually, some are considered to be called, because of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not certain county branches. So, the thing is, what you were saying about water and everything, but we listen to it every 4 years, about a year before the elections, and everything sounds really nice, but unfortunately in the end when the elections go through too little, because just because these data says we're at the bottom of our 4 Slavonian County on some 19th, 20th place says something's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68411	And the replica of Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68412	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague, you can see from the replicas themselves how many infrastructure projects we're missing, which means "The Road of Life" rule, that's right. You said that Dalmatia has tourism, it is true that Dalmatia has tourism, however, I have to look back at Dubrovnik, or Dubrovnik-Neretva County where we do not actually pay tribute to the recession in that isolation. So I ask myself this way when we talk, we promise infrastructure projects, and on the other hand we say at the same time that we are looking for opportunities to finance such projects we cannot believe. And then your thesis when you said Dalmatia has tourism, we have tourism thank God but for this tourism it certainly needs infrastructure and we wonder how long we will have this tourism in view of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68413	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68414	Thank you, colleagues. In fact, I don't know maybe if someone misunderstood... /The speech was turned off.//... The development of tourism for the development of road tourism is extremely important, only tourism is developing and it is a perspective branch, regardless, so far it has been perspective, and in Slavonia unfortunately I will repeat it again because of the lack of industry and relying solely on the agriculture of people who live there have a sense of imperceptibility because we simply don't know where to turn, we don't know what to do in the future, because what we live on now is obviously not going to live on in some normal way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68415	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Borzan, of course, we both come from Slavonia and it is important for us to discuss such a subject, including this 3.5 km part of Corridor 5C that passes through Slavonia. However, if we are naked for us, it is always a priority to join me to say to the middle and then to northern Europe. However, in the spirit of this, there is also this debate by my colleague Bonačić because by ending Corridor 5C as quickly as possible in that part of the Beli Manastir to the border with Hungary's integration with Central Europe we will certainly help Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic and other tourists to get to that same Dubrovnik, so we will help develop tourism. That's why it's a priority for us anyway, and no matter what our colleagues say here, there's a lot of Slavs involved. Yes, Slavonia is the most underdeveloped, yes, Slavonia is the most disfellowshipped, but this is the salvation for Slavonia to a large extent. And it makes sense that on a project like this, we're trying to get it over with as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68417	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68418	I hope you didn't think this was a three-mile rescue for Slavonia but a complete road. So, that's what I was saying, it would be much more logical to develop this part towards Hungary, because, at the end, Hungary has made much more progress than BiH, and of course in the perspective that it is extremely important to connect in the extreme line of Croatia because of its unusual shape and good highway connection along the state itself, it would be good that we can cross.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68419	Mr. Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68420	Thank you very much. My colleagues Borzan, Corridor 5C is a European corridor and from this aspect it is worth valorising and saying that it is a corridor that means economic, transport, social, integrated national importance for Croatia. If we're going to look at it through our own views from our own backyard, then I can say that it's really connecting the ends of Croatia's but also Bosnia's ends with European countries. In this sense, I can say from my own courtyard that is connecting Herzegovina with the sea, connecting Croatia with Croatia, connecting Herzegovina with Bosnia and Herzegovina with the sea, connecting Bosnia and Herzegovina with Croatia. So the interest is multiple and difficult to assess from our own backyard. We need to watch what this means in total for Croatia and the entire route connecting Corridor 5C. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68421	Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've told your colleagues Borzan that people in Slavonia and Baranja are used to living off their work. It is clear that they are used to living from their work throughout Croatia. But here's how our prime minister makes fun of her when she says there's no interest in her shepherd's work in Croatia, so politicians make fun of her, so it's something so funny that she said, and we all know it's a very honorable job that many of us used to do. Not all of us were born as parliamentary representatives. And as for Corridor 5C, I would, as my previous Mr. Leko said, have great importance for Slavonia, but not only for Slavonia but also for Dalmatia and BiH, and it is an international corridor that is not only dependent on Croatia, what was dependent on Croatia is that Croatia did less with this highway towards Rijeka, with the highway towards Split and we are here at the very European summit. And I think the best guarantee for Slavonia and Baranja is that this government continues and continues with that 5C corridor and that it is also our interest and yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68424	I absolutely agree that it's our interest and yours. But I would say that these 3.5km through Slavonia and 9 miles down towards Dalmatia is actually one symbolic gesture. So something that won't save Slavonia and Baranja is just sending some kind of signal to people a year before the election that there's still going to be something going on. And what you're saying is that people from their work live in the rest of Croatia, I will repeat myself, in Croatia 20 years of cults are no longer working and are sent especially to young people with a completely false message that work cannot live normally, and that the most beautiful lives when we look now through all these affairs, those who with little work are convulsing big money.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68425	Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Says colleague Borzan, that young people in Slavonia tend to leave Slavonia as soon as possible and go after bread with their stomachs. Dear colleagues, that's not true. Both you and I and all of us have been among young Slavons every day and this morning I was among the young Slavons involved in the program of the Croatian Employment Service, the Government of the Republic of Croatia who offered to do traineeships, traineeships, state exams, professional exams, all at the expense of the state budget. And this is only one in a series of Government of the Republic of Croatia programmes with the promotion of the economy, the development of institutions, the opening of new institutions in Slavonia that young people, young Slavons, stay working in Slavonia and Baranja. And I guarantee you that 99% of young Slavons and Slavons want to live in Slavonia, wants to work in Slavonia and the Croatian Government is working on programs to enable them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68427	And Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68428	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Borzan said several incorrect allegations, but I noticed that she said that residents of Slavonia and Baranja are systematically neglected and are socially excluded. That's absolutely incorrect. So this project itself speaks about improving the quality of transport infrastructure, and you yourself said it was a commendable project. Even though at the end of your presentation, you get the impression that you are absolutely against it, Corridor 5C. I got the impression. Second, as regards social exclusion, residents of Slavonia and Baranja receive pensions as well as everyone else, they exercise the right to health care as accessible and quality as everyone else. Social protection rights just like everyone else. And as for the systematic neglect of agriculture, I would like to say that capital support and cattle farms are the most built in Slavonia and Baranja, the largest number of cattle in Slavonia and Baranja. So those tractors who came to the protests did not come in the Spirit of the World, but these are thanks to the capital support that this Government has achieved, etc. So in agriculture, you deny it all and say it's nothing. I believe that even the damage to the natural disasters, part of the cake went to Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much. And you were against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68429	Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68430	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This bill shows that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is one of the most important financial institutions for the development of the Republic of Croatia, since it has funded over 100 projects in the Republic of Croatia, of which three direct loans to the state, 16 loans to state guarantees, and the rest are in the private investment rule. When a loan is mentioned immediately to everyone and this is a loan of over 60 million euros, although there is no reason for fear in this case, because it is a returnable loan, so this loan is not for consumption, this loan will return multiple times. He'll be back later, and he's useful now because here's the deadline until 2013 to use it, which means that now construction and other operations will be engaged, which means there will be more employees. And of course later, during the rest of the time period, this loan will return multiple times. It is a very important and important corridor from Ploč, Sarajevo, Osijek, Budapest and I don't know why I would say weak will, strength is supported by what counterpart Milinkovic said, as if here we must support it. We don't have to, this project and this loan should be strongly supported as we supported someone else yesterday, tomorrow we'll have a third. Especially these back-to-back loans. I absolutely agree with my colleague Lek because I've already wanted to say that almost all the opposition seems to be accepting it with regret, but it's not because my colleague, Leko, has made it great that this project is important. So there's no reason to be afraid. I understand when people talk, colleagues and colleagues advocates about their end, about their problems, that's understandable, but these are other topics. This loan should be strongly supported and implemented as soon as possible, and God forbid that it is similar more and more because it will allow more development of Croatia, and then there will be fewer reasons for the mourning woman and for the whining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68431	Replica, Madam Representative Neda Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68432	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Nenadić, I actually agree with you, and I have no doubt that we will support the adoption of this actual support of an important project because only a few, two months have also passed an important law that I would say could be linked to such strong projects, and that is the reconstruction, among other reconstructions... in the Sibenik port, which is actually a very strong link. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I agree with you that we have to support projects like this because, as the old Latins have said, the life of the road means to us so without any doubt with this amount of investment, I don't think anyone would be able to say that it's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68433	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68434	Thank you, colleague. Of course this is one phase of the project, this is a phase that passes through the Republic of Croatia and that is our obligation, and I believe that the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina will also solve it. And I agree and support, as this one supports the project so tomorrow for the Sibenik or any other or corridor or any other project, especially the one that returns the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68435	Mr. Representative Daniel Srb, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So this is one proposal for a law on the financing of a construction venture that is, above all, very welcome to Eastern Croatia, Slavonia. In this regard, I fully support him, but we must also be aware of a few facts that need to be pointed out. For the full function of this 5C corridor, it is of particular importance that the shares from Osijek to the Hungarian border, because the fact that on the Hungarian side of the highway came several kilometers to the front of the border, and that just by joining the two highways, the entire eastern Croatia would have received one significant momentum in the development of the economy. We are also informed that this bridge over Drava will start working somewhere during the spring to start works on the other side of Drava to the Hungarian border by the end of the year. But it should also be said that the contract on the construction of this bridge was already signed two years ago, that unfortunately it was broken down, that it was lost in this sense for two years, and that it showed that not enough precise planning of financial resources has an important impact on business and the construction sector. In fact, all the companies that are connected to the entire highway construction system are actually in a rather sensitive system that must enable continuous work. If construction companies do not have a job in continuity, if there is a discontinuity, then there is at some point an increase in unemployment and there is an increase in liquidity and many other extremely bad economic effects arise as a result. It would have been much better if it had not been for the contract to be terminated, if the highway had continued to build both effects both in the construction sense and in the positive effects of the development of transport, tourism and the economy of the entire eastern Croatia would have been far greater. The fact is, this corridor will also show its full importance the moment the highway ends as a whole through Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, this will also affect the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We want them to do the job and they'll finish it as soon as possible, but unfortunately, we can have a little impact on it. What is important is to say, it is important to say that, in fact, when it comes to Slavonia, and there has been a lot of talk today about Slavonia's position, however, remains the fact that from the system of highway construction in Croatia, Slavonia was, unfortunately, the last turn. When it comes to the economic structure of Slavonia, the fact that Slavonia Countys are at the start of how gross domestic product is the first to be unemployed, it is always the Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijem County that will be the most underdeveloped, which will not be the least developed of them, in fact, that there is a serious problem in Slavonia economic structure, economic structure and educational structure, primarily in Slavonian villages. Of course, deep marks in the Slavonian village left a former system. But Croatia has not found the right answer in all these years and after the Homeland War to solve this problem. And we can't even notice the fact, it's true that in Slavonia, too, that industry that wasn't based on agriculture as a raw material actually failed. Therefore, metrotressing, wood processing, textiles as well as other parts of Croatia. I have no intention of having a discussion about the reasons. But the fact remains that industrial production in Slavonia is based on agriculture and raw materials from agriculture has largely survived the processes, therefore privatisation, conversion, transition and that it works today. What Croatia needs to do should be made one model first of all for the Slavonian village, encouraging the development of crafts and changing the economic structure of the Slavonian village, because it is on them that unemployment is highest in the Slavonian village. It ranges from 30% in the best municipalities to over 90% in the poorest municipalities. Unemployment in Slavonian cities is also high. But there is no significant difference between Slavonian cities and cities in other parts of Croatia. But Slavonian villages and municipalities show alarming data and this says that Croatia must find a model for the development of the Slavonian village. That's one question in front of all of us. It's an obligation for all of us. Once again, because of the fact that this highway can significantly speed up the economic development of eastern Croatia, that it can make a much better transport link between eastern Croatia and Croatia, it has the absolute support of the Croatian party of rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68437	Thank you. Two corrections. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68438	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Serbs, you said in your debate that you were sorry that Slavonia was the last to come to order in the construction of the highway in Croatia and it is simply not true. Well, of all other parts, Croatia had the highway first. I apologize more, Highway A3. Well, the last stock from the parish to the border was made after the Homeland War. We have brought the construction of the VC corridor closer, i.e. we have better traffic connection not only to Slavonia, but also to Croatia, and in addition Osijek has gained significantly in approaching other parts of Croatia by building this stock. I'm sorry I didn't lift my line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68439	Mr. Representative Mario Zubovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad you support this law, but just like my colleague Vardic, I'm stuck with the eye that you said that Slavonia was the last to get the road. Slavonia also won the first road in the last state, and in this country that piece was built up to the Serbian border. And you need to know that after the release of Slavonia that the complete old part of the road has been reconstructed, along that road that you are on today and driving to Osijek. And we have to say that today from Osijek you can reach Zagreb in two and a half to three hours. It means that this is also a success, and we must remember that when it was being built, when the highway for Split started to be built, it required not to build a highway, but only this old road across Plitvice in places to expand. Imagine if it was left so that today would look like road infrastructure in Croatia. And Dubrovnik was still cut off today as Dalmatia was until recently cut off, there were no miles of highways, and you in Slavonia had at least until the parish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68441	Okay. Replica Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68442	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Serbs, you have well noticed that in Slavonia or Slavonia late projects of infrastructure and highways and in this sense Slavonia and Baranja has been neglected. Namely, here's the information that will back it up. Beli Manastir – Osijek – Svilaj is part of the pan-European VC corridor agreed at the Conference of European Transport Ministers in Helsinki in 1997. It's just a quote. You have also well noticed that connecting through the VC corridor is going and not only towards the Pločas, so towards Central and South Dalmatia, which will be really connected through Bosnia and Herzegovina with Slavonia, and this will also lead to integration and economic, economic, as Mr Leko said. But Hungary brought and built corridor VC, highway to Mohač. It is really a few kilometers from the border with Croatia. Therefore, it is really important that we also hurry to connect in this direction, because Hungary is already in the European Union, and thus enables economic progress in the mainly food-processing industry that can be a locomotive of development throughout Croatia. Here's most of it, so I mostly support your exposure, but here's the addition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68443	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68444	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grubisic, therefore, the eastern part of Croatia needs a better connection with both the north and the south so that faster implementation of the link can affect economic development. But let's not forget some facts. And when it comes to Slavonia, she gets something. Slavonia me in 918, Osijek had five stripes from different directions built. No rail traffic has been built since then. Also, the ship is a great traffic intersection. In a certain sense, Vinkovci have lost importance, they need to gain importance, and this highway can bring them much, but when it comes to the construction of highways today, the fact is that these Slavonic parts are the subject of the current debate, not the debate of 5 or 10 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68445	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's fellow Serbs, I agree with you that this project is more than welcome, every kuna that is invested in Slavonia or in any other part of Croatia, of course, is always welcome when it contributes to the development of both municipal and road infrastructures, and according to this, it is certainly also an economic stopper. But I must say that very often, here in these debates in the Assembly is trying to make a case out of Slavonia. Slavonia is not the case, and it is a complete lie not to invest in Slavonia. I've been doing the analysis just through a trace of all these stories that there's not enough money in Slavonia, and I've seen that just from the farm resort, not only for support, but for rural development through the various measures of the most money in the Republic of Croatia invested in Slavonian counties. I also saw that the most money, when I talk about water supply, was invested in Slavonian County. I saw that, when it comes to regional development, the most money invested in Slavonia County. When it comes to environmental protection and energy efficiency projects, the most money is invested in Slavonia County. And that's why I'm actually worried about whether we have a good effect on these investments, because obviously there's not enough synergy, and in that sense it seems to me that more work needs to be done together, that all these investments coming from the state level should have a synergy with investments from the county level, from the level of municipalities and cities. It is bad to call for spite, it is bad to organise protests, and on the other hand it is not to do what the state is called for. I agree with you that we should all contribute to the development and survival of Croatian villages, not only in Slavonia, but in all of Croatia, in this sense great efforts have been made, but the fact that there is still a lot of work ahead of us if we really want the Croatian village to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68447	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68448	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. The fact is that big money has been invested in Slavonic agriculture, through a system of incentives and support. The big money was also invested in shipbuilding, but the issue remains unresolved whether it was the best possible measures or should have been otherwise targeted by those funds, which are absolutely necessary to better stimulate the development of the economy and, above all, the change of economic structure in the Slavonian village, which I consider to be still the most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68449	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68450	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will, of course, get involved in this part of the Slavonia conversation, simply which, especially after the replicas we heard, I will ask a question like this. If this is all true, you claim that it is, that the great money in Slavonia is invested, that much has been helped, and the fact is that Slavonic is the most underdeveloped part of Croatia, the fact is that unemployment there is the highest, the fact is that it is the hardest place to live there. I'm asking the question here are everyone who's talking about not having to make a case out of Slavonia. Are Slavonian people then, to say incompetent, lazy, or don't know what, that, with such strong investments, they fail to develop certain production? So they can't secure jobs? That they fail to live at the level of medium-developed cities, municipalities, counties in Croatia. Or perhaps, let such a question be said, it is that someone has channeled those same funds into something he should not or should not have directed at. Give some kind of answer, because this is all a story that doesn't have a foothold in Slavonia. Believe everything that's been said earlier that in Slavonia it's not exactly like that, it won't sound like that in Slavonia. I'll make a real effort on the way back to talk to some people to see what they think of these remarks. But let's get back to the subject. Of course, we have before us a proposal of the Law to confirm a contract with the European Bank for, which should provide certain resources for these parts of the VC corridor which are listed here, of which 3 and a half kilometers are in the area of this Slavonia, therefore in the north, and 9 kilometers in the south. I said in the previous line that Slavonia was not sufficiently connected. The two large corridors pass through Slavonia at this moment, one of which is the 10th longitude, so the long pan of the European corridor that has railway lines, and along which is the highway A3 that was the same here. Also through Slavonia passes the 7th pan-European Danube Corridor, but both of these corridors are not used enough, if we look at the Danube as a river that sleeps 10 European countries, then surely the potentials it has and the port of Vukovar and all that is on the Danube coast are insufficiently used. Likewise, if we look at the A3 highway in which both transport is currently being carried, both freight and passenger, we'll see that it's only one small part of what that highway can represent. Here, of course, is this corridor, i.e. the branch of Corridor V, corridor VC which is essentially one transverse, so a vertical corridor that should connect Central Europe, next to Budapest and northern Europe with the south, i.e. with the Mediterranean below, i.e. for Croatia significantly speaking with the port of Ploče. This corridor certainly has great importance, both in freight and in passenger transport, when we talk about this road section of the corridor, but it is he who will repeat for Slavonia a strategic infrastructure project that needs to give space for the development of the entire Slavonia, and because I repeat it to Slavonia still the most underdeveloped part of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, if we say that this corridor for the Republic of Croatia is one of the development wheels, then I would say that for Slavonia it is an engine of development. So that moving part. And it represents not only an economic segment but also a social and integrated segment, as counterpart Leko said and socially. And so one segment of overall development that doesn't need to be spent too much on. It should in any event run a number of economic operators that are at a lower level, which are along that corridor since it passes through Osijek-Baranja County, through Brod-Posavisk, touches Vukovar-Srijem County on it by relying therefore Virovitic-Podravska etc. In this respect, I would particularly stress the importance of the Danube River and this previously mentioned corridor, which should therefore be made possible by combining one combined transport one transport of a larger quantity of goods, a larger number of people, etc. The completion of the railway section of Corridor VC is equally important, which was spoken by counterpart Mršić. If that part is completed, it will be possible to intermodally, connect to freight transport and move from the river to road and rail traffic and connect further to that 5B branch heading towards the river there in the western part of Croatia. It is not mentioned here, but this corridor has very large implications and to strengthen the use of Osijek airport. So in that segment he's also very important. It should not be disturbed from the mind that near this part of Corridor VC there are several large city centres in Slavonia which are essentially the bearers of the development of the entire Slavonia. From Osijek, Slavonski Brod, Vinkovac, Vukovar, etc. Therefore, all of this part of the debate on Corridor VC is not at all asked whether it is necessary, is not asked whether this loan should be supported, i.e. the conclusion of the contract and thus end this 3.5 km, i.e. 9 km to Luke Ploče. It's not questionable at all, and I think it has the support of everyone, including those you accused of not having, they don't support it. We all support it, but it should be repeated here and it should be said that it is up to us to say, I will not say unacceptable, but that these 3.5km are just a small part of this part that goes through Slavonia and that we believe that this combination of corridors from the White Manastir to the border with Hungary, and that would in any case encourage this completion from Mohaq was a priority for us to join the EU. Because if we are working on it, and I believe that all the representatives and all the clubs are working, all the parties to Croatia enter the EU, then we need to provide it spatially. And this is a spatial security merger with the EU. Not to repeat what I said in the replica of my colleague Borzan, so we have the largest number of tourists on the Croatian Adriatic lately from these countries. From Hungary, Slovakia, Czech Republic, etc. This connection over Osijek would also strengthen the traffic of Slavonika, so I don't know when you last drove, for the Osijeks I know that they often drive, Slavonica is a free road. It's a beautiful freeway. All the facilities next to her are released, no motels, nothing. Why? When there's no traffic. So we need that part to be finished as soon as possible, and that's why I'm pushing for this to be supported and for it to go to the end of that part to the Hungarian border as soon as possible. Here, I see the time is over. So, I support this bill of law, but I suggest a little different thinking at a time when highways are beginning to be considered. And one more detail. And listen, no matter how anyone looks at Zagreb and the eastern part of Croatia, they were connected to Belgrade on the highway, regardless of how old it was then, etc. So the sentence was built the highway was in this standard, at this level of quality, but it was before the Homeland War there was so-called. highway which is Zagreb-Belgrade. So she existed. We can't just talk about building up. We can talk about rebuilding the highway. And the second is when it's said that highways are made somewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68451	Thank you. Correction, Ms. Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68452	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a dear colleague who said that Slavonica is a free road, I guess, thinking she doesn't even have any value. Slavonica is not an empty road, Slavonics are being trafficked, more and more, and it really has great value. You must travel along that road to see the value of that road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68453	Second correction, Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68454	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Heffer, who said that Croatia had a highway in the former state. My colleague Heffer, as far as I know, it wasn't the highway. It was the highway. I won't tell you what it was called because you know it, and another thing of all this importance you're talking about, about the completion of the construction of Corridor VC for Croatia, you forgot the key, which is building 2 customs crossings, or border crossings that are important for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68455	Injury of the Rules of Procedure all of a sudden. Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68456	Thank you very much. Mr. President, at the moment we meet the criteria for Chapter 23, I ask you to warn people not to make nationalist turns out here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68457	No one here has ever made any nationalist outbursts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68458	These things can't be said in the Parliament. Everyone says whatever they want. Who saw that? What kind of way is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68459	What is this way for you to address the Parliament like this? There was nothing here, you make it up, you make it up. You're seeing some nationalist outburst. ... You can see it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Representative Heffer. ... You have visions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68460	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Prosecution did not correct the incorrect allegations. There was a highway, whether she called herself one way or another, a colleague is a professor of Croatian language, she knows her name. But it existed. So he can't fix something that didn't exist if there was, we all drove there and she did.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68461	The highway one that has, as it is now, did not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68462	You're talking about the current highway standards, at that time the standards were different and there was.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68463	And a replica of Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Come on, you can calm down 'cause you're snorkeling back into brotherhood and unity anyway, then it doesn't matter what it's called. You tend to do it eventually, especially you on this side. Mr. Heffer that exactly that Slavonia is empty and it is true that if we were to count and have data from the Croatian highway so let them say how many cars have passed, I believe, not to believe but I know that much less has passed by Slavonika than through a spring crossing in Slavonski Brod over which more than 16 thousand cars pass daily, so on. the famous Osijek street and the underpass in Osijek. The second thing, Mr. Heffer, is that in the first part of your presentation, you spoke about the gross social product and the state of Slavonia, today it's funny to hear from HDZ about the huge investment in Slavonia, which is happening to us, so we're ignorant, incompetent, and we're still on the gross social product, by emigration, by the migration of the population in the worst situation in the Republic of Croatia. Well, I guess she doesn't expect Mrs. Petir to invest in shipyards in Slavonia, but in agriculture, which would be invested in Slavonia and she claims it's very much invested in agriculture. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68465	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68466	Thank you very much, distinguished colleague Grubisic. As for Slavonics, of course, if we catch on to the strict meaning of the concept of desert, then I was wrong about my apology, you'll find 5.6 cars there. It's so small traffic that it's insignificant and I was talking about what could be improved by the end of that part. Second thing, can I finish? Another thing, dear fellow, about my opening part of the debate I really expect to give an answer, if no one else, then those who act as state authorities, which are most and who are told to invest large funds in Slavonia. If nothing moves there, now they'll say something's moving because it can be seen on weekends. If there is still so much underdevelopment, then they, as a government that approves of funds to invest in Slavonia, should worry about what is happening with these funds. Therefore, I continue to argue that there is a question of why there is still such a difficult situation in Slavonia, and the current government argues that it invests in the development of Slavonia. This is a question that should be addressed several times through various points, perhaps through a special session of the Croatian Parliament, to see what is happening in Slavonia despite so many investments that it does not develop. Here, you say that's how it is. I repeat, are Slavonian people perhaps not capable enough, lazy, to fail with these great investments of yours there to develop their lives to normal limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68467	And Madam Representative Mariana Petir, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68468	Mr Heffer, I am pleased that at the end of your presentation, you have admitted to investing in Slavonia, because you supported this project of completing Corridor 5c in Croatia where only for shares in Slavonia, you invested a total of 43m euros, you yourself have denied yourself when you said that you did not invest in Slavonia and on this example. You know as well as I do that Slavonia has a great developmental chance right through the food road, from that part of Daruvar, through the Golden Valley, Đakov, Osijek, Darda, Vinkovac, Vukovar, Ilock. You know as well as I do that Slavonia has an excellent Pannonian-Tourist Corridor and Croatian historical roads. And you know as well as I do that Slavonia has his baroque cross. Therefore, Slavonia has very good predisposition for the development of the fact that we should all work together rather than shout, cause divisions, resist with our fingers and speak falsely. You should not shout live Croatia, but live Croatian and live for Croatia, and you should also not yell "Integrate Slavonia" your colleague Grubisic but work for Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68469	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68470	Thank you, well-respected representative Petyr, you didn't listen to me very carefully, I'm sorry I didn't say he was investing, but I said, if he's investing as the government says. That's not what I said, I said if you really invest as the ruling say, as the government says, what happens in Slavonia. I do not shout live Croatia etc., I do not think there is a need for this, where I have to fight for Croatia and fight and fight, and such and similar demagogue plantings are very incorrect, since if there is nothing more serious to answer a specific question, then let us not answer such demagogue things. I repeat, what happens in Slavonia if the government really invests as much as you say, it fails to build life to the extent of those people who deserve everything, starting from the Homeland War to today. Thank you very much. Perhaps a colleague will be able to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68471	Mr. Representative Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68472	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So the project of completion of Corridor 5c consists of building part of the highway in the length of 12.5 km on Corridor 5c along the northern and southern border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The northern border is 3.5km from the Middle East to Svilaj knots, including the bridge across the Sava River. A south 9km section from the Ploca knot to the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina including the border crossing, plus that of Osijek-Beli Manastir to join with the Republic of Hungary. The completion of this corridor will revive the industrial zone in Velika Kopanica in Brod-Posavina County and the Svilaj industrial zone which the two municipalities in Brod-Posavina County have put into their spatial plan. I would like to see the Great Kopanica industrial zone already under way and the state there donated 9.3 hectares of land for the industrial zone. I am particularly pleased with the employment of a construction operation from Slavonia and Baranja and the employment of people when it comes to metal structures, steel structures and the construction of them in Đuro Đaković, which I will remind you if you do not know, tomorrow celebrates 90 years of existence. There were talks about increased CO2 and I can also say that those low floor wagons that will walk on Croatian and European railways are being built and will be built in Djura Djakovic in Slavonski Brod. I support this Act confirming a guarantee agreement for Corridor 5C because it will bring multiple benefits to Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68473	Thank you. Replica Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68474	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Djurdjevic, you have encouraged me to do this replica and to think about thinking, listening to this debate today, all day long, about the importance of this Corridor 5C. I think it is important and important that we all have to agree on colleagues and colleagues whether we are the position or the opposition in this assembly or whether we have to support projects like this. And I'll tell you why. You said what it means to open these economic and business zones. And I'm going to tell you about another road that some colleagues here have talked about, like it's not going anywhere, it's not needed, and that's this highway Zagreb-Sisak. It certainly takes both highways and all highways. And I'll tell you why. Just by building part of these shares that are being completed this year to Lekenik Municipality, so up to Lekenik from Zagreb how many business zones have been opened and how much for a small municipality like Lekenik Municipality means just like these economic facilities and business zones, or the opening of business zones. And we can't say that any highway in Croatia, anything that opens is not necessary. We all agree that this is the development of a certain end, but when we discuss it, then we say that it does not invest in certain ends or not. invests and should be invested evenly. Here some of our colleagues are on that highway in Sisak digging, you know, those plastic baggers and they say it's a road that's never gonna be built. But here she will be and she will be finished, and we who travel daily on the Sisak-Zagreb route or vice versa see what roads mean and the development of highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68475	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68476	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So I'm hoping to shorten the debate because a lot of colleagues have spoken and there have been a lot of corrections of false allegations and replicas, but also a little deviation from the agenda point to say here that Slavonia has been neglected, etc. Of course, to support this Zagreb-Sisak highway, but in my debate, I said very briefly what benefit to Slavonia and Baranja mainly to my County of Brod-Posavina where the vast majority of corridors are finished. The full purpose and economic and financial viability of this 5C corridor will be when it comes to living in both Hungary and BiH in full content. And I believe that the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament are to lead care and co-operation with the Government of the Republic of BiH in order to achieve this goal as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68477	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68478	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I have to admit that I'm a little surprised and surprised with this debate that I think will probably take a while and will be supported by all MPs and MPs, so I'll look back as well as my colleagues, because I don't think the law should be used up anymore because everyone is aware that it's an extremely large amount of 60.63m euros and, of course, it's a national project. And I want to talk to you about that very aspect, so it's a project of national importance. The entire length of the project relating to Croatia will, of course, be transported tomorrow by all those arriving in Croatia through that direction from Ukraine or from the Baltic countries that will go through Budapest to the 5P or 5C corridors, so all those persons and all the economics and all that is significant for the Republic will travel that way and, of course, through BiH. This part of Croatia is extremely important as soon as possible because we will prepare ourselves for what will follow very quickly, which is the Schengen regime. One reason why and understanding by European institutions is also because of this fact. I will talk a little wider about the Schengen regime that is extremely important for the south of Croatia, and of course it is equally important for the northeast of Croatia, because Croatia must prepare quality for that part of its job in the EU, because it will be the European border. That there will be problems, because Croatia will not be fully prepared because it will not be completed the Peljesac-land bridge. It won't be finished. I would like to, and I would be happy that in the Croatian Parliament all MPs support every project wherever it is happening in Croatia. Because that's how I understand my role, and I'm glad that in any part of Croatia it was Istria, whether it be Medjugorje, whether it be Zagorje, was Slavonia, any part of the end of Lika, that I don't list all Croatian landscapes, so I support every project in Croatia that happens because it primarily benefits Croatian people and citizens, and in that sense I really think that all MPs should think that way. And don't think about whether it happens in the election year or after the election year. There's always a few years of choice, always choosing for something. Is this local self-government, is it the Croatian Parliament, etc. I don't want to spread the subject about the election now. But it is unacceptable to say that here today we have this law that only 3 and some km is being built in Slavonia, and only 9 and something km is building in southern Croatia, so it is in the election year, so it automatically wants to reduce the importance of these investments, these projects that are extremely important for economic development and, of course, everything that will happen when it starts to happen, and it will start to happen soon because the withdrawal deadlines are very well known and in fact everything that should be prepared to be concretely and realised. Why am I talking about the Schengen regime? Because the part relating to the Croatian south is already potentially recognised as extremely important. Two municipalities through which these two corridors pass, the Adriatic-Ionian which is built towards the Plots, which has come, which this year will open in Vrgorac this part of the highway and continue towards the Plots, and the second corridor this 5C is already recognised as potentially extremely significant economic. Because municipalities that were abandoned during the communist era, so for many years they were completely abandoned, this is the Municipality of Kula Norinska, parts of the former Municipality of Metković and the Municipality of Pozerje, only by their own actions as a unit of local self-government have actually started to develop quality development and have started to invest in them quality investment. Today, these two municipalities have the possibility of accelerated economic development and have recognized this in their plans, the municipal plans envisioned economic zones. I am convinced that in that place, at that point where these two extremely important corridors intersect, so Adriatic-Ionian and Corridor 5C that we will actually get a new Longfield I would say freely, economically, in terms of quality development of economic potential. And in this sense, we really should commend those people in the municipalities below who are already preparing for this and who have already brought their spatial-planned documentation into line with this and of course that the county has been behind such projects and the County of Dubrovnik-Neretvania supports this very development. We'll be left with a big problem as soon as we cross the border in Neum. This is one problem that will prove to be very significant this year and will be very difficult because, according to the contract and agreement with the European Commission today, Croatia has started to apply, partially applying the Schengen regime, partially applying, which means that every car, every means of transport passing through Neum to stop at the Croatian border on the one hand and on the other. So now they're starting to create crowds, you can imagine what's going to happen when the tourist season starts. The government of the Republic of Croatia is already considering the situation, and has already found solutions for some situations, and this is primarily the introduction of a quality, fast connection between Ploč and Trpnje, so on the Pelješac peninsula that will regulate a part of the traffic that will go towards Korčula and that will go towards the islands of Mljet, Lastovo, etc. But, of course, the problem remains with this part of the city of Dubrovnik itself, and indeed here are our people, people down there will have patience, but they certainly expect the quick end of the Adriatic-Ionian direction that passes through Croatia, which is this part of the highway towards Dubrovnik to reach... and, of course, it will be necessary to reach an agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina on the corridor behind Neum as soon as possible in order to plan that part of the road. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, all of these problems would have been solved if the Peljesac Land Bridge had been built and had been supported and I would have said the entire political public, because the support had the Croatian democratic community that is still carrying it in the budget today and for which it stands out today. The government of the Republic of Croatia also allocates 100 million kuna this year. A new model is being sought to speed up the financing of the construction of this bridge and it is quite certain that a solution, a traffic solution through the highway that goes towards Dubrovnik, which will be from Ploč... to Dubrovnik to address the problem in a quality way by building the bridge itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd be happy, I support a concrete bridge across the Drava, across the Sava, every bridge, if there were 10 I would support them. The bridges connect the coasts, but what matters most is bringing people together, bringing the economies together, making it possible to develop. There's no development without that basic infrastructure. We would have been happier with our own Croatia if we had already solved these problems. We would be happy if the Zagreb-Split highway was not considered a nationalist road. We'd be happy. However, we consider someone a communist party these years, the totalitarian regime, which is the vital direction, the spine of Croatia sees it as a nationalist road and welcomed Croatia, which was torn down by war, which had to be restored, welcomed the construction of the highway. I would be happy that when the first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman opened works on the St. Roht tunnel, while another part of Croatia was occupied, while part of Like was occupied, etc., I would be happy that the politicians at the time recognized what this would mean in the future for Croatia, and not that they said that the champions would grow in St. Rok as the great entrepreneur Cacic said. So he said he'd grow shampoos in St. Roque. I've been remembering these situations a little longer. I also remember the fact that SDP gave up building highways from Split towards Dubrovnik. In 2003, that road was kicked out of the projections, so we had to return it afterwards. In 2005, we signed a further contract for the construction of highways from Split, i.e. from Dupolje towards Plots, etc. I would be happy that Dubrovnik is connected to the highway as some parts of Croatia were fortunate to have had such highways or highways, whatever you want to call it. I would be happy exclusively for every Croatian neighborhood if it could develop as we deserve it, as we deserve. But unfortunately, because of the regimes that we have not developed in the full sense that we should have developed and today we make up for something that is very difficult to make up for because countries in our environment, countries in the European Union are far more developed in that part, infrastructure. Look at their infrastructure only in traffic between their shores, between their islands. And that's where we're cut off. All of this has welcomed us, plus, of course, war reconstructions, etc. But what's most important, so this is a project of national interest and I really think it's completely declassified to attribute it, to reduce this project because it's happening this year that can be electoral, but it doesn't have to, maybe next year. So it's completely declassified, this is important for Croatian citizens. And in this respect, it is absolutely necessary to support this project as well as all projects that will mean both economic recovery and traffic isolation resolution and all that comes out positively.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68479	Thank you very much. We have two replicas reported. First respected colleague Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68480	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Matušić, I agree with you, and I'm surprised that this debate on this 5C corridor can be said that there has been so much debate but with a negative one sound, and it really amazes me. I also thought that we would all support the adoption of this bill. What also as soon as I agree with you, which is that we all need to support all projects that are being built in the Republic of Croatia. It is in everyone's interest, so here I am, among other things, glad to have built this corridor of VC and Bosnia and Herzegovina as much as one of the Osijek companies has already won, so work. He'll be working in that area. Therefore, these are all benefits. I will now speak of the benefit of Slavonia and Baranja this time. Finally, it is a benefit to the Republic of Croatia. Representatives from Slavonia and Baranja one part, I would say from the opposition spoke in a negative way about the highway. They said it was corridor VC, so the one that was built that it was a desert road that I would not agree with. I would say, or we should all talk about the value of that road in that area. So here's an example. When I spoke to the director of a textile company here from Zagreb, when I talked about getting into our county, then I said that we had this corridor of VC, so it's connected and that in two and a half hours it gets from Zagreb to Osijek or specifically to Valpoov. And that was one argument that was important, which is why he came and opened up his own power plant in Valpo. That's exactly how we should talk to everyone, invite entrepreneurs to come to Slavonia, or Osijek-Baranja County and other county, to come to talk about the connection of our environment, to talk about what we did through those entrepreneurial zones, about all the resources we have. That's the way I think the MPs here should talk to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68481	Thank you, colleague. Reply to the replica of counterpart Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68482	Well, I agree with you, colleague. You have just set an example where one of our companies actually took advantage of it and will participate in the development of this project. It is certain that all other entrepreneurs should also be invited to find and find their own interest and long-term insight into what situations will arise by building this project or any other project. In addition to being surprised at how they commented, I was surprised that some MPs from Slavonia were asking questions, and as where the money was invested, in which it was invested. Well, I think they should know. First of all, we should know because of the fact that the budget of the Republic of Croatia is adopted, which clearly highlights each item with a concrete amount. I know specifically about Dubrovnik-Neretva County, I know about every school, every sports hall, every sewer system, every water system in which the state invests hundreds of millions of kunas not only in our county, but in our entire country, and it is truly inappropriate to have such statements that we do not know where this money is being invested. Well, at least it could have been so hard to read the items in the budget that it knows exactly how many hundreds of millions of kunas or billions of kunas go for both incentives for water systems and sewer systems and for roads and for a number of other projects financed from the state budget, of course other than units of local self-government that have their own tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68483	Thank you. Next to the replica, a colleague, Markovanovic, answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68484	Well, here's colleague Matušić, you've talked a lot about Schengen, the transition. This is also about the border crossing. Of course, all these transitions will need and expand, that they're big investments, but good. We are also aware that the road through Bosnia will not be made so quickly, but it is important to make a good connection with Europe. Why Europe? Well, we all who were born in Slavonia know well, we know the beauty of Slavonia very well. Obviously, it wasn't about that from colleagues and colleagues here, so we're asking ourselves what's going on with Austrian tourism. Why do tourists come to Austria all year long not only for skiing, because it is two, three months, but all year long the hills are Austrian and even valleys full of tourists. Now that's what Slavonia can provide, and what a good part of Europe doesn't have. So peace, beauty, good food and a good relationship with Europe will surely attract. And it seems to me the least they do is work in Slavonia. So, a peasant economy that will be able to take a bus, two tourists who will feel very well and come back there. So what's saddest is this pessimism of all those who are in opposition because they're not in power, so maybe it would be better if they were in power we had a chance to see what was being invested then in Slavonia. We have a chance to see what's going on right now. And if Slavonia seems to represent several doctors who deal with everything except the profession and whose diagnosis is questionable otherwise, it's very sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68485	Reply to the replica of counterpart Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you fellow that in each field of action, the fact that this project will happen is absolutely positive. The only thing I cannot agree with you is that we will probably have to wait long for this road in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's already partially realized. We heard from fellow Vukic that the competition was called and from... towards the Croatian border. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're already partially realised, of course, part of that corridor. In this respect, the very fact that Croatia will finish its work through this part of the project that we are talking about today will probably make it clear that I will be speeding up Bosnia and Herzegovina and realising through Bosnia and Herzegovina itself. I am convinced that this part of the job will go more quickly, especially bearing in mind the fact that Croatia will soon become part of the European Union and that, of course, it will be able to help the neighbouring state of Bosnia and Herzegovina solve the problem more well and as quickly as possible, because it is indeed in the interest of all of us. As far as border crossings are concerned, the Croatian government has already provided both crossings to Neum for Croatia. On one side and on the other, two new border crossings will be built with several strips. I think the construction's already started. Here's how much I've seen already are down and the machines, already one part of the work is being performed. Therefore, both on the one hand and on the other, a large number of crossings will be provided in order to try to speed up the rhythm of the vehicle's passage, given that each vehicle must indeed be stopped according to our agreement with the European Commission. Here in this sense, indeed, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and through these projects and through all projects concerning transport infrastructure is extremely invested, but it is also a matter of local communities that you were talking about, to design projects in a particular county, to offer a joint project to go out to that market or a tourism or other economic market, and to actually benefit from the infrastructure that is available to us, and the railway corridor that will follow this VC corridor is also of exceptional importance. Certainly already today, Luka Ploče is recognized as the most potential port for goods from the Far East. We are the nearest European port for the European market tomorrow right through Luke Ploca, which is economically equipped, the state invests in two major projects. The container terminal has already been completed and a terminal for scattered burdens of hundreds of millions of kunas is now being built, so the state has already been involved and has recognised the importance of this part of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68487	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Your esteemed colleague, Danesh Shaw, is on his way. Here you go, buddy. He's gone. Then it's up to the esteemed colleague Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Both as a Croatian and as a national of Croatia, but also as a Bosnia and Herzegovina, I welcome this bill and the construction of this corridor, and I value it very important for Croatia, but also for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Before I refer to this law in question, I would refer to some of the thoughts that have been heard here in the debate so far. Until now, it has often been heard when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, then only Bosnia is mentioned. It's wrong for a number of reasons. First Bosnia and Herzegovina has its name, its name, official name, not Bosnia and Herzegovina but Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the other hand, some even politically connot, because Bosnia means in some context and something that it is not. Then there was also talk here about part of the Balkans, so it alluded to me, probably not so much in Croatia, but in any case Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think it's a bad thing to be from the Balkans, but here I am from Tomislavgrad and I don't feel, I really don't feel like I don't know a man from the Balkans. Well, maybe some do, but I don't feel like someone who's in the Balkans. On the other hand, there was talk of Osijek, of Slavonia. And then very often it was mentioned that I do not know Slavonia farmland, was agricultural, so it was not to that extent, so industrial, so again it was not to that extent, etc., and it was never said, in fact, awkwardly I would say that Slavonia had suffered most of all during the war and that it needed a great, great effort to actually return Slavonia to all those possibilities she had and with the support of certainly, above all, who was brought down by the entire Republic of Croatia, and I am glad and welcome here the presentation of Miss Petriar which clearly, in fact, showed by figures, therefore clearly, showed that Slavonia was not neglected, but was actually as equal and as important as all the other parts in Croatia. And that's good. Also often and almost regularly, the expressions of the type Dalmatina, Slavonics are used, and I don't really understand who is the baptizer of those names, and what does that mean? So what does Dalmatina mean? What does Slavonic mean? And I hope that no one will think of it as some kind of nationalist outburst of mine, but simply, if we're going to stay in knowing these regional areas we call and call our highways, then why don't we at least call them, if so, Slavonka, I'm much nicer, or Dalmatian, or I don't know, let's say for me there could be a road, let's say Franjo Tudjman, it would look amazing. I'm a little afraid we won't slip, so we'll start calling Croatia a Croatian, too, or I don't know what. On the other hand, the name Spaladium also bothers me, and in any case it would be good to really take care of the terms and their own language. Of course I'm not an expert at that, and here I see a few among other things here is my colleague Professor. Dubravka, well then she can grade a lot more, and I see here Professor. Selema and many others, who can certainly do much more, Ivanka Roksandić, who can say a lot more about it, but I think we should take care of it. On the other hand, there was a question of the cost of construction even on the road, so I was not sure how many vehicles passed, how many gravitated residents I didn't know of that particular highway, etc. It really reminded me of the conversation I had the last time I was in the United States, with one of our men at the embassy, who literally told me once long ago I don't know, some of our official representatives were there, and then one of them concluded that it actually didn't pay off maybe building highways because it doesn't engraving so much for them I don't know cities, and so many of those economic resources that they were passing by. And the man who drives me to the airport says I explained that they first built highways, and then they built everything else that goes next to them. Therefore, this road is important, it is important what Croatia is doing, it is important what Bosnia and Herzegovina is doing and I am glad that you are doing it in one accord and in agreement. I even had a conversation, because after some of the talks I heard here and with the minister responsible for the roads in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the man told me he was very pleased with the co-ordination he has with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and also with what began to be built in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In any case, it is not enough, but it will be more and it will be better, and this road will certainly contribute to both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and will actually connect the Adriatic and Baltic. And now imagine what it's going to mean in that case to the port of Ploče, and what it can mean to all those people who actually find themselves in that space and all those regions in that area, because it's expected to be built alongside it and the railways, it's expected to be built, perhaps or renovated by some airports, in this context I think of Medjugorje. Therefore, Medjugorje is located not far from this highway, and Medjugorje is amazing, not only because we believe that the Blessed Virgin Mary is really indicated there, but we believe that we should open Medjugorje and even more than is now open, although it is actually planetary, so to all those people who want to come there. Not to mention the logistics centers, economic zones, tourism, population growth, and in this case, when Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned with the deaths of all people there during the war, people returning to their hearths and revitalising all that was there, and what is not now, for example. industry, then agriculture, I'm talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina now, the importance of tourism, etc. All this is very important for both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and for this whole area, because I believe and hope that Europe will understand that it would actually be unfair in a certain way, tomorrow when Croatia enters the European Union not to work on Bosnia and Herzegovina as soon as possible not to enter the European Union, because Bosnia and Herzegovina is a complicated state and if through the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina all the laws that we bring here in this way we bring and agree, I fear that this will never happen. I therefore hope that Europe will have more understanding of these circumstances in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located, and that, in a certain way, it will co-opt into the European space as soon as possible, in which it belongs both to the well-being of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to all others who live there, but also to all of Croatia and across Europe. Here's my support for this law once again, and my request, I understand what it is, in fact, I can't say that I understand, but I suppose what it is, Schengen, but it seems to me that only two crossings of that rank are now planned for BiH, it seems to be small. Or maybe I'm too sensitive because I live in Tomislavgrad and I literally have Kamensky in front of my eyes. And Kamensko is, imagine where Split is located, where it is located I don't know Sarajevo and the whole area. Therefore, Kamensko is indeed on his way, in that direction, and in any case deserves if not then that transition, then in any case a high rank that can be shared later in that transition classification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68489	Thanks, buddy. And now we have six replications. Well, let's take it in a row. He's a colleague of the Heffers first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bagaric, here's the one you pushed me into. In fact, I don't really understand, and now I see in a series of predecessors from my colleague Bagaric, which is why you and why you are having a negative debate by SDP representatives? No MP has said he opposes this bill, everyone has supported it. So the second thing is how anyone looks at the individual segments of this topic covered by this law. But there's one question I'd like to ask. A colleague says he is not considered, he does not feel, sorry, to the Balkan population. It's a personal feeling. I don't refer to that level in particular. It is enough for me to be a resident of the Republic of Croatia, but here we have a 7th item on the agenda that says the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, etc., areas of conflict in the Western Balkans for 2009. So, we didn't want to discuss it. But it doesn't matter if we did or didn't. We know exactly that we are in Croatia and we will work on it. As far as the name question goes, I used the name of Slavonica Road. When you drive on the Zagreb-Lipovac highway then there are signs on the part of Wednesday where Slavonika writes, that is the name of the road, which is why it is used. I don't know, I didn't travel there either, but as far as I know, there were some public procurements for that, or a call for the citizens to make a statement about it. And finally, more because of this first thing I said, because of that negative connotation. Well, I'm glad, too, and I trust all of our colleagues, that this Corridor VC is going to develop Luka Ploče because it's one significant port for the Republic of Croatia. I am extremely glad that BiH will develop, especially part of Herzegovina below. I go down relatively often, I have friends, I have everything else and I'm very glad that part will develop. But I am glad that the Republic of Croatia will develop, especially Eastern Croatia, and our discussions have gone in this direction that this merger is the closest to us in Slavonia to the EU. And that's why we've been looking for opportunities to strengthen something in this respect. So to combine that part because that part will strengthen this part too. Slavonics and this part of the highway to these tourists and others from Hungary and other parts of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68491	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of his colleague, Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68492	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I know a colleague, and I look forward to all parties supporting the construction of this road. However, I've just looked back at the part of the debate and in my opinion, I may think wrong, but in my opinion, I've expressed certain views. Well, when it comes to belonging to the Balkans, I haven't said anything wrong with it at all, nothing at all, and I don't mean anything by it. I just said that if I were to count, I don't know that I don't know any hierarchy about the identities I feel, then maybe if the Balkans were already listed, I don't know anything about 27 places. If we're going to talk about geographically that space. However, I believe that in this context we now have this other law that you are talking about. Also, if the official name of this Slavonic is okay, that's the official name and I welcome it. However, if it's not the official name of the Dalmatians, and then I pray that we don't even give her that name, but if we were to rename it in, here I suggested, say, Francis Tudjman's freeway, it would be a big thing to say that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68493	Next thing you know, she's a colleague of Petyr's. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68494	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You spoke about the divisions that affected Croatian society and which are very deep, and today's debate shows this in one part of it. Although we were all meant to have our own country, to be able to regulate that country by some democratic standards, to invest in even development and to be on our own, it seems that we are not yet fully using our own potentials. To often look for hair in the egg and not see the whole of it, then we don't see what was really done as in this case trying to challenge certain projects and certain investments in one part of Croatia which is especially on my heart, which is Slavonia. But you encouraged me to do this replica for the reason you spoke of these many renamings of the region, so you came to some conclusion that God did not give up, and that Croatia might be renamed. I think we've already been deeply engrossed in these renamings because when you look at Austria, the Austrians live there, in France the French live, in Germany, in Hungary, and in Croatia citizens and citizens. Isn't that weird?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68495	Replication response. Here's my colleague, Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68496	I thank my colleagues for your replica and once again emphasise the importance of the data that you have presented here, which actually indicates that Slavonia, like all other parts of Croatia, is equally valuable and that it is investing in them, and that is very important. And when it comes to this comment relating to terms and I don't know either, I don't know the national identification and I don't know the definition of state I think there's anything wrong with the fact that the Croatian state and all its citizens and it's okay, but I agree with you that maybe, in any case, we may be making some concessions and we want to be in some things that are more Catholic than the Pope. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68497	Thank you. As soon as the replica was followed, Honored counterpart Matušić applied. Here you go, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68498	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with you that it is necessary to complete the negotiations process in BiH as soon as possible. However, I doubt it will go so quickly, however, it will depend primarily on the results of political and other action within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Croatia can normally contribute here and contribute, we have already offered neighbouring countries and all those who have aspirations towards European integration, we have offered a translation of the European acquis and thus hasten everything. I'm sorry. So we have offered this translation to all countries and in this sense we will facilitate Bosnia and Herzegovina on its way and speed up the process as much as we can. As for the very corridor that goes through Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have set an example from the United States, however, it should not go far to see what infrastructure really means and how quickly this infrastructure can fit into development. Let's just take an example of the highway to Split, forecasts were all that were done, all the studies that were done predicted that the traffic that had already been achieved in 2009 would only be reached in 2015. So 6 years ago and it's a relatively small period, but 6 years before that highway reached that traffic that was scheduled for 2015, we can only imagine what 2015 would be compared to that forecast. So only when these pre-conditions of infrastructure are created can it be said what traffic really will be and how much economic end will use its potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68499	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68500	Thank you, I agree with my colleague Matesic with this infrastructure rating, let's say all the effects that the highway will produce, etc., but I would only refer to the part about Bosnia and Herzegovina because I think it is very important to say this. So, I welcome, among other things, the statement by the Prime Minister and the president of the state regarding Bosnia and Herzegovina, to support Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state and to support the Croats as an equal people. Unfortunately, one such European statement, a statement for which no normal man under the sky should mind in Sarajevo, is welcomed by some politicians. Some mind that votes from Croatia are coming to support Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole country of equal peoples, because there is a great danger for both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the whole region. Why? Because the least numerous people are Croats, in the current consolidation of relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have equal rights, everyone agrees with that, so at least many, so someone thinks they should have less rights. This is wrong, it leads to Bosnia and Herzegovina now being divided into two entities in the majority of one or the other people and in fact to weaken the cohesion of the preservation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is one major threat. Therefore, my one request, can be a romantic attitude so that it would be good for Bosnia and Herzegovina by Europe as soon as possible, to take the cover of the European Union so that what can happen and to develop democratic standards does not actually happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68501	Injury of my colleague Buric's office, you've lifted the plate. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68502	Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. So the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 209 of the esteemed colleague Bagaric, I know that you are trying to stretch this, but in vain because you are discussing Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the point of the Corridor 5c agenda. That's not going to work, and you're talking about a topic that's not a topic of the agenda, so just keep up the lines, there's no problem. What I need to hear is I'm gonna say it and I'm not getting excited about it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68503	Okay. If we had strict shears cutting off everything that wasn't related to the subject before one wuru we'd be having lunch, so let's have patience until the end to bring this to an end. A fellow Bodakosh answered the line. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68504	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you mentioned that Slavonia was rich, that is, that we say that she was rich, that in Slavonia was developed both agriculture and industry, and normally you said well that the destruction of Slavonia at the time of the Homeland War and what Slavonia had given one under the results that we might be in part in this situation. However, the facts cannot be avoided and the time when Slavonia was, and when I mentioned that Osijek was the second city in Croatia, it is still the time of Austria, therefore the fall of Slavonia is systematically beginning since the beginning of the old, other Yugoslavia, but also unfortunately in the last 20 years Slavonia is still neglected. Slavonia precisely because of these war difficulties that were meant to have been given a different way of development, including from this fast road, or highway, to everything that could have been most developed in Slavonia, is the issue of agriculture. However, in the last 20 years we have no development policy of agriculture, we have no vision of agriculture, what is happening in Slavonia is precisely what is happening to our agriculture. Today in the Voice of Slavonia you have to talk about a potential collection of bread, in yesterday's journal even mentioned it as an introduction to everything that is happening, says that in the Middle East it happened just as a result of food collection. We also know that if we read certain things anywhere, we find something like that. But why, if we need it, do we need it to instead of a million tons of wheat we have 500 grand will be this year. I don't think we need that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68505	Thank you, dear fellow Bodakosh. We need about 700 thousand tonnes, these are our needs, while we have more where we need to find the market, while there is less then we have to introduce, otherwise there is no bread from our grain, and the reply to the replica, here is colleague Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68506	So I agree that it can do more and better, there is not one activity that people make that can't be measured in a way that can be improved, that can be improved etc. So, but what you've brought out here and as far as Slavonia is concerned is all of Croatia in terms of this problem, so the problems in which the country is in view of the overall state of the economy and all the difficulties that Croatia has been going through and has been going through, and I'm still going through almost the whole world and Europe, so I'm talking about these global trends and economic crises as such. However, we believe I know that you also believe that the time is coming, that the time is before Croatia that will work for her. We believe that Croatia has finally completed all these obligations it has had when it comes to the EU not only for the sake of the EU and those achievements that the EU is seeking, but because of our own views, or because of the achievement of certain standards, when after all this is over, we will have more time and much more opportunities to devote ourselves to everything that you are talking about. I think it's time ahead of us and it's for Croatia's benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68507	Thank you. She's a pal of the Shuica Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68508	So here's colleague Bagaric's fact that this Law on Confirmation of Guarantees with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has caused a series of debates and polemics, this morning and perhaps a little wider than the topic itself, but you yourself are also in your presentation of a series of topics and your exposure has prompted me to reply, because it is quite the complexity of the topic that you have opened says how complex the situation in BiH is. And I think you're right when you said it was romantically your enthusiasm, that BiH would just quote I think it would still have to meet the criteria. However, to return to the subject of opposition, everyone supported the law, but the fact is that most of them about Slavonia and the poor development of Slavonia about the poor degree of economic development of Slavonia and less about the Croatian south itself. You also said that no one mentioned war and post-war reconstruction as a possible problem at all in Croatia, especially in Slavonia. I don't think there's any fear of mentioning war or anything that happened after the war, so here's this latest report that was adopted yesterday in the European Parliament about our EU accession, we're commended for regional co-operation and for cooperating with neighbours, resulting in no fear of mentioning the war as one of the possible reasons for slightly less investment. As for the Croatian south itself, here I read in today's press that a huge business centre is just being built next to the Schengen future crossing in Metkovic. So the businessmen have already recognised this future corridor and are already building on it, as counterpart Matušić said about the municipalities of Kula Norinska and Poezerje. They're definitely going to resuscitate the economic and industrial zones and there's no doubt at all, someone here has asked a question, whether it's going to bring multiple benefits or not to this corridor. I think the answer is clear, it will bring benefits to both Slavonia and Dalmatia, that is, south of Croatia and BiH, and I think we all need to talk in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68509	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of his colleague, Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68510	Comrade Shuica, I agree of course that this is exactly how you said it would be followed by the benefits of building infrastructure in Croatia especially this highway. When it comes to BiH, which is not beyond this topic, which concerns exactly the highway passing through BiH. and whether the road will be built entirely depends on the stability of BiH and its arrangement. Therefore, it is not absolutely past the subject I would say that there is every myth and truth there. And that everyone's dealing with these myths and truths as they're being answered. Unfortunately, the international community has also accepted some of these myths. So we see now in the prosecutor's office of the international Hague court that literally accuses Croatia of wanting to commit aggression on BiH during the war, as it wanted to share BiH. The packages say in favour of BiH being divided. But it was not divided by Croatia but divided by the international community and by the aggressions of BiH and in a way that now Croats are the least equal people. Therefore, I would conclude there is one fact that I claim is true, if it were not for the myth, if it had not been for Croatia and for the support of Croatia, BiH would not have been preserved as a state during the war. Also, if there were no Croats in BiH, it would be difficult to defend the south of Croatia. That's true. However, irrefutable all BiH's assistance during the war either by land or sea, either by air, came exclusively from Croatia or through Croatia. Therefore, it is my answer that neither I know nor I live in myths about what Croatia and Croats were doing in BiH during the war. And it's sad to see MPs from the Parliament here who, in the most watched shows of federal television in Sarajevo, make statements as to God some participants, as witnesses of time. They didn't even see it, and they're accusing their own country they live in. That's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68511	Thanks, buddy. A distinguished representative, Goran Maric, also reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Bagaric, you said many say there is no economic justification for highway projects and highway construction. So it should be pointed out that the construction of highways is part of the infrastructure, as does construction and waterways and sewers and pipelines and electricity lines, and that this significantly determines economic development. There is a direct link between the degree of infrastructure construction and the degree of economic development. It is something similar to what exists between science and economic development, as economic development has encouraged science for centuries, so science has exclusively encouraged economic activity in the last three centuries. Without us fortunately, we have come to such a degree that we can finance infrastructure projects so that we can develop an infrastructure network that has led to such a state that it will be the main driver of the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. And the question is, is it socially justified to build highways? That's too much of a question. Not only is it socially justified, it is socially and justifiable and necessary. Without building highways, Croatia's fate is predetermined, but it would be predetermined to a stalemate in economic development, and this will reverse the rise in economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68513	Thank you. Reply to the replica of his colleague, Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68514	My colleague Maric, and I show my agreement with your findings, both as fellow MPs and as an expert, so a man who understands what he's talking about. And I would possibly add that there should be faith in all of this. I have no doubt that you did not include this faith, faith in yourself, and faith in God. Croatia is defended by believing in itself, believing in God and knowledge. With knowledge, it is not only a weapon that is defended but a knowledge and a heart and a faith in itself and in the people. And I apologize, I forgot earlier to mention that actually the representative I was talking about was our colleague Cain, who is an expert on everything, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina, even though he was never even living in it, although I begged him not once to go through Bosnia and Herzegovina, to get to know her a little so that he could talk about her as someone who knows what he's talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68515	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all reports of individual debates. We move on to the closing word on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB club, dear colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68516	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Listening to this debate, people living in Slavonia and Baranja are sick of living. Whatever you're talking about, Slavonia and Baranja is like a 13th pig and an unwanted child for HDZ, and the Republic of Croatia and Slavonia and Baranja has been contaminated by millions of mines, but has also been contaminated by HDZ's incompetence, insensibility for the unemployed and the poor, for the fate of its citizens, and by crime and corruption of unprecedented proportions. That's the darkness. [[/Intruder: Is that a theme?]] You wanted the numbers, now you'll hear the numbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68517	My friend, you've been lifting a plate so others don't talk about the subject...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68518	In the previous five years, the HDZ authorities in Slavonia and Baranja at the position of current aid, capital investments and capital investments totalled €39.3 billion. Slavonia is 20% territory and 20% population. She was supposed to get 7.8 billion, that would be 20. She received a billion and 800 million kunas in those five years or, more specifically, 4.5%. Do you want other numbers, do you want another number? In the budget of 30 projects that are... In 30 projects dominated by the government as those that would get Croatia out of the crisis, it happened that in these 30 projects, Slavonia and Baranja were left without any project, and the projects were worth 13.8 billion euros. There is a phantom or famous project called the Danube-Sava Channel that has to be built since Maria Teresa. And even if it was built, it's worth 950m euros, which is only 6.88%. When you talk about investing in Slavonia and Baranja then it is certainly a coincidence that the most underdeveloped counties in Croatia are the Slavonian-Baranja and all those in which HDZ is in power. The most developed is Osijek-Baranja, which is the only one in which HDZ does not rule, in which the HDSSB is in power. When Miss Mariana Petir talked about how much she invests in Slavonia and how agriculture is the best example that in Slavonia the most... won, and where you thought you should have invested the most with that division. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Probably Dalmatia. No wonder agriculture minister Petar Cobankovic and the world championship gave Biograd at sea, not Slavonia. And finally, let me tell you a few things, someone's said about songs. Don't just tell Slavonia. We sing other songs, we sing a song to whom you are guilty, who minds that the tambura plays, who is bothered by the forest of the old oak, the Nightingale of Croatianism. But we're singing and another bum whatever you're trying to silence me. There's a good guy who says this, and he's worth it to me and to the HDSSB deputies because we're Slavonic representatives. You're party representatives, obedients, and air-conditioned, and we're singing Vienna, and you see, whenever you see me here, you think: I'm a fat Slavonac, I'm not handsome, but I'm meaningful, for Slavonia and Baranja. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68519	That's what the Slavon will say when the time comes. You didn't say anything about the subject, and eventually you'll all have to sing in front of Slavs who actually turned off the light, fired people, shut down jobs, privatized banks etc., etc., but these are other topics. I mean, it's not good that even in front of these kids who were up there, we're giving examples of how we open up a debate about the corridor, and then we end up in fat places, but what's there? We have two credentials. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Buric, of course, said a series of lies in his demagogue address here. He didn't say a word about the subject, and speaking of agriculture, he found out what he thought I was thinking. Comrade Buric, you can't know what I mean. You can comment on what I said, and if you were sitting on your ears, it's visible because you didn't follow what I was talking about. Of course, the most money was invested in Slavonia when it comes to agriculture. Of course it makes sense, of course I say hello, and here I only said that so that I could go through your brainbrows because you keep denying it. And yet you said one great lie, you said we were party representatives here, and you're Slavonic representatives. Comrade Buric, I will now tell you, I am a national representative, the people have chosen me, and this people speak to me daily, and those of Slavonia who say that you are actually doing your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68521	Thank you. Correction of the quote, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68522	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to correct the incorrect assumption that there was an offensive speech and hate speech here, but I'm going to correct the incorrect assumption that HDZ destroyed Slavonia and Baranja. That's just not true. But just for the sake of the Croatian public, I will remind you that this same colleague who says so today has very actively supported the politics of the Croatian Democratic Community in Slavonia and Baranja was a member of the HDZ, of course, before being expelled from the HDZ. .../Speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68523	We've only got a little bit, we've got another correction from counterpart Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Buric and I have also been offended. Because I am the representative of the Croatian Democratic Community and the founder of the HDZ and I am a little stronger, fuller but I could be a real shocker and answer to the Vienna but I won't. But I'll answer his arguments. Something 100 that came to Slavonia and Baranja in the past 80 was heading towards Osijek, and for all four other counties of those 20 you must be aware of.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68525	Thank you. We move on to the closing word on behalf of HDZ fellow MP...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68526	Mr. Vice President, I've reported... Don't shut me out. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68527	Let's just stick to the Rules of Procedure once and see how you've figured out the Rules of Procedure and his... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68528	Ms. Mariana Petir, therefore, injured, Miss Mariana Petir hurt the Rules of Procedure, but also me personally because she said, so something like while he was sitting on his ears.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68529	I agree that's not right, because it's hard to sit on your ears. But the people use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68530	I'll also tell you better when you talk about Slavonia and Baranja not to say anything. And I also have to thank the esteemed representative Sima who just said that the purpose of the inauguration was to get the result exactly according to... And the most resources went away because we were all silent and nodded and you're obedient, air-conditioned, and you're only subject to a party's path, and we're fighting for Slavonia's interests. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] regional party and national party... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68531	Here you go. That's... Thank you. Long live the MPs. Comrade Shakespeare, you're the final word. ... Comrade Shakespeare, here you go. [[/Intruder Buric, you don't understand.]] We can correct this, this has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure, with an agreed way of working, but gentlemen think it's interesting for people, so we have to bear it too, because it says and it's appropriate and that's how it should be done sometimes in parliaments. And on some shows the other night, some say they don't like it all together. The other says it's really circus fun. Now who belongs in which categories, it'll be easy to find. ... I'm telling you what people told you on some show. [[/Intruder Buric, you don't understand.]] You're up, man. You're up. You're up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68532	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I intended to have this five-minute debate in it to speak about the adoption of this law, but I won't. I will not because after this coming forward, MP Buric feels an indescribable shame that grips me in this assembly, in the Croatian assembly that in this way can be spoken, this is the way to treat Croatian MPs by MP Buric. Because of this shame and shame that I feel that I have been present with this kind of behavior, I will no longer speak, and I leave my conscience and conscience to all those who have listened and followed today's exposure, this last of their judgments. I'm ashamed of it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68533	Thank you. Comrade Buric, how many times have you picked up a plate for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and the next minute, Doctor, it's you again. Well, don't. Finally, the secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68534	However, I can only thank the part of the debate concerning the Act of Confirmation of the Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of Croatia had unanimous support. And just to remove the doubts regarding the realization of the VC corridor. In addition to what has been said about the actions on the VC corridor in the Republic of Croatia, which is not now the subject of this contract, means the bridge on Drava and the end over the White Manastir, to the border with Hungary. These are all activities that are being spent this year bridge before, and this corridor itself by the end of the year is expected to start building. As for Hungary and Bosnia and Herzegovina, activities and co-ordination have been undertaken by the ministry. We have assurances from the Hungarian side that their 20km share will end in the shortest possible period, and they are preparing documentation, going into the realization of this together with us sign an agreement on a point of border on which we will connect on one side and the other. Likewise, as for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bosnia and Herzegovina is making efforts to close the financial structure with the same financial institutions that we are talking to. Therefore, this common interest was between Zenica and Sarajevo being built, was between... and the Croatian borders are in preparation, therefore it is expected that Bosnia and Herzegovina will find the strength to complete its part of the corridor, with our help and with the help of the institutions that are following us. [[You don't understand.]] There's only so much, basically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68535	Thank you, secretary. Here's the application of one correction, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister of State, you said you'd be talking exclusively about this material that's here, and in that material there's no mention of me saying the freeway of the Hungarian border to Drava. According to that, the way you start it, for example. In connection with the breakthrough of those obstacles of stone on the road Makarska-Vrgorac, and one day the bogeymans are brought in, they start digging something up and then more goodbyes. They eat lambs. If that's the case, then Slavonia will definitely recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68537	Although it wasn't about Vrgorec, but good. There's a lot going on in this debate, but that's why we're finishing it now. We'll vote on the wheel when the conditions are met. We continue at 15 hours and this item of the agenda which follows, this is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Biofuels Act for Transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68538	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the guarantee contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the completion of the VC corridor, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. number 706. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the completion of the VC corridor. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 106 votes for, one abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68539	We continue with the afternoon work with the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law amending the Biofuels Act for transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 709 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by post, and in determining the agenda, we accepted that the motion should be discussed in an urgent procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You've received reports or you're about to receive them at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of State in the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Natasa Vujec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68540	... Amendments and additions to the Law on Biofuels for Transport are proposed to allow the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make decisions on the proposal of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship which bring the elements of the policy of fuel production for transport into line with the opportunities on the market. [[Speech is not enabled.]] During the meeting of the Committee on Economy, it is proposed that these amendments and amendments to the laws be introduced only exceptionally for 2011. So in accordance with the proposal adopted by us, we will now make these amendments and additions, and I would just like to say that by the end of this debate, the text proposal will be completed. So nothing important will change except that there will be the text that is in the law and more sentences will be added to bring the additions that are here in the proposed text that has been sent to you today, and I thank you for this opportunity to address today the problem of the change and supplement of the Biofuels Act. These amendments and additions therefore relate to Article 18(3), which defines the decision on the level of compensation for the promotion of the production of biofuels for transport and to Article 19(5), which defines the decision on the unit amount of the monetary incentive for the production of biofuels for transport. In accordance with the existing provisions of the law, it is not possible to make those two decisions in 2011 on the level of compensation to promote the production of biofuels for transport and the single amount of monetary incentives for the production of biofuels, but only in 2012, since the law entered into force in 2011. Domestic production of biofuels for transport is found in economic difficulties or is not competitive production of petroleum products as well as in other EU Member States, and for the reason that we already have biofuel producers, this way we allow them to use the production incentive system for the current year 2011. It is in the interest of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, the manufacturer of the transport biofuels to make those decisions immediately and accordingly, these amendments to the Biofuels Act for transport will also make it possible. The adoption of these decisions and the promotion of production and monetary incentives are in line with the already developed national action plan, with the Energy Strategy, and thus meet the EU energy policy objectives related to biofuels placed on the market. On the basis of all these reasons, I propose that these amendments to the Biofuels Act be adopted in an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68541	Thank you very much. Here, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate and we're starting a club debate. First of all, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected representative of Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68542	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the SDP Club on this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Biofuels for Transport, I would like to say that the SDP club will support the adoption of this law, because it is in our interest to help domestic biofuel producers. But it cannot express its dissatisfaction with the fact that we changed this law about 2 months ago more precisely at the end of last year, and then do not ask the question, what is the government thinking in such short stages, which is unable to predict all the essential circumstances for the quality implementation of a law that it proposes? The answer to this question is more than clear. Such a government is chronically incompetent. We regret that when the Government realized and decided that it had to amend this law in order to establish a biofuel system at all, it did not listen to some of our proposals and opinions made during the debate on the last amendment of the Biofuels Act. In the SDP last 2009 we warned that the Biofuels Act does not encourage the production of biofuels in Croatia, but encourages the import and blending of outside-produced fuels into Croatian motor fuels, which also encourages the subsidisation of other countries' economies. In this regard, I will repeat our remarks at the moment the regulation of the biofuels sector in the Republic of Croatia. By ratifying the Kyoto Protocol as well as by taking over the EU acquis, Croatia has committed itself to respecting certain standards and rules, and what we can do in an extremely expensive way and extremely unfavourable way for Croatia and already knock-out Croatian economy, or we can do so in a way that, apart from the benefits for Croatia's environment, will also have a positive impact on the weakened Croatian economy. International conventions and the EU do not tell us how to do this. They tell us that we need to do this, and in the wisdom and mind of every state and national government, it is to be done in the way that it is known and washed. And it seems that the Croatian government does not know how to do so in a way that would be useful for the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the Government continues to treat environmental protection exclusively as an international agreement to take over the cost, not as an opportunity for better and new development of Croatia, not only of social and environmental development but also of economic development. This is exactly the idea behind the syntagm of sustainable development. For this reason, in the SDP, we believe that the government does not use biofuels as well as all other renewable energy sources as an opportunity to develop, i.e. the main engine of the future Croatian economy and economic development. First of all, the Government has not yet drawn up the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, which is a basic prerequisite for implementing renewable energy sources in Croatia and using renewable energy sources as a sector for launching a new investment cycle in Croatia, economic recovery and a new cycle of employment of the population. Renewable sources can be implemented in one way or another, can be realised or mobilised by the domestic fallen industry of construction, metra-recipient and even shipbuilding, in the production and development of domestic technology and renewable energy plants or can be realised by buying other people's technology or subsidising other people's economy. Here it is, our several representatives of the Environmental Protection Committee were in Vienna a few days ago, and we had the opportunity to visit several plants, including their energy plant on biomass, then their municipal waste burning plant and a recycling yard, or plant for selecting or decommissioning PET packaging. And there we had opportunities to make sure that Austria mainly uses domestic technology and domestic producers for such plants because it's in their interest. So it's not only in the interest to establish certain standards of environmental protection but also to start the domestic industry, domestic technology, to develop and so on. I hope that we in Croatia will also in some way produce solutions and ways to help our industry and our technology develop in this direction. This applies, of course, not only to solar power plants and solar technology, waste management, geothermal plants, energy or biomass power plants, small hydropower plants, but also to biofuel production. Croatia must not be able to achieve the 10% target of renewable energy in transport fuels by 2020 by mixing the produced biodiesel, biogas and bioethanol or by producing biofuels in Croatia. In the SDP club, we believe that the state's subsidies to biofuels must in no way be spent on blending and selling biofuels but only on domestic production of biofuels. Only in this case can Croatia benefit from biofuels and use biofuels as an engine for better, ecological, more acceptable development of Croatia. And for this, we do not only need the National Action Plan for renewable energy sources in the Republic of Croatia, but rather urgently, as soon as possible, to adopt quality, for the Croatian economy of the incentive law on renewable energy sources. Biofuels are only one segment of this extremely important sector and changes to this law that we had the opportunity to bring to an end last year and the current changes that we are also going to adopt are simply not enough to realise that goal. In the SDP club, we believe that the applicant should also have a balanced and non-discriminatory approach to all domestically produced renewable transport fuels, rather than favour biodiesel compared to bioethanol and biogas, which seems to be still the case. Positive discrimination should only be seen in terms of incentives and subsidies solely domestically produced renewable fuels, regardless of which biofuels they are concerned. We see particularly great potential in promoting the production of biogas and the exclusive use of biogas in public urban and suburban transport. The fact is that due to relatively fast economic benefits, both biodiesel and bioethanol and biogas, which can also be a by-product of agricultural production, are particularly isolated. At the time of the growing fossil fuels, the uneven development of Croatia and the need to reform the biofuels sector are options that can answer all three issues while reducing the country's dependence on the import of fossil fuels and greenhouse gas emissions, which could cost about 100m euros per year for Croatia to respect Kyoto protocol. Biofuel support as an ecological alternative to import fossil fuels would lead to an increase in the number of jobs, especially in less developed areas of Croatia. Regional development in Croatia is unbalanced, most of the economy is concentrated in the capital and the moderate potential for development in coastal and coastal areas. Slavonia and Baranja are agricultural regions without strong drivers of development, and today we have had opportunities to listen during the debate on 5C corridor and would just mean biofuels, i.e. biofuel production in these regions, have brought potential for development. Transferring subsidies through biofuels would allow painless maintenance of the same level of support to farmers, and a significant increase in demand for energy crops would reduce the pressure on high prices, agricultural prices in Croatia, leading to an increase in standards for the entire population, and in particular the part with lower incomes that make food a significant share of consumption. The start of the biofuels sector would result in an increase in jobs, especially in now poorer agricultural regions, an increase in energy security, a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and other harmful emissions. In fact, the start of biofuel development 20 years ago indicates that the objective of the development of biofuel production was to develop rural areas, develop and increase agricultural production in rural areas, ensure economic income for the population and enable life in those areas. The aim was to alleviate the economic migration of the population to large cities and to create proletaries and social cases. At that time, the European Union did not think at all about the energy efficiency and usefulness of biofuel production or environmental protection and the reduction of pollution. At that time, and today, the aim is not to turn intensively agriculturally active areas in food production into areas for the exclusive production of biofuels. As energy and fuel biodiesel, it is not until 2003 that it is regulated by law and when quality is defined for this product, which paves the way for its wide production and application. The planned and systematically-led biofuel production strategy should primarily aim at achieving economic development, reducing energy dependence, creating new economic values and economic benefits for the entire society, and then meeting the international obligations set before the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union. It is important to encourage the development of the Croatian cycle from field to car and that it is necessary to adequately subsidise with the aim of encouraging the development of all segments of production that rely on the biofuel chain. The strategy for the development and introduction of the life of the economic branch of biofuel production should be seen as a three-carica chain, of raw materials production, chemical-technology production of biofuels, use and market life of biofuels. Each link of these three shall have its specificities, legality and professional requirements and shall be addressed accordingly. In order to achieve economic benefits, the entire programme should be managed as a whole, at the same time observing the interrelationship and dependence of the three link(s). It is necessary to set up a development strategy and clearly defined rules of conduct, to define what is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and how biofuels operate on the market of the Republic of Croatia. The first link involves encouraging the development of agriculture in the rural regions of the Republic of Croatia, which I have already talked about, the activation of agricultural land that has ceased to be processed in the last decade, the creation of agricultural production on market grounds according to the European Union model. The agricultural producer that receives the incentive produces exactly certain cultures on a specific plot, and the culture and parcel itself does not choose to do so in agreement with the Agency for Renewable Energy and Biofuels, which would monitor the planning and development of biofuel production. The resulting agricultural product would be sold on the biofuel market or used for its own purposes. The second link is the most important chain of operations, i.e. ensuring economic growth and development. The development strategy determines the geographical location of future production plants, their size related to the Syrian base and the product market. The emphasis should be placed on the domestic technological development of biofuels and the development of appropriate equipment and devices at chemical technological and technical colleges and domestic plant equipment manufacturers. The technological processes of production and the product quality obtained must be based on the economic principles of business and ensure the competitiveness of the product on the market. The development strategy should provide for incentives for domestic biofuel producers that meet the rules of law and standards of production per litre or kilogram of biofuels produced from domestic raw materials and consumed on the domestic market. The third link involves setting market rules for biofuels and consumption rules. It is primarily necessary to encourage the consumption of biofuels produced in the Republic of Croatia from domestic raw materials and to define the system of monitoring the quantity and quality of biofuels on the market as well as biofuel flows on the market through the Agency that I have already mentioned. Unfortunately, as things stand now, that's what the Proposer's representative told us today we still don't have that kind of information and input. It is also necessary to define the institutions and models of monitoring the corrective action mechanism in the event of market deviations and to regulate the tax system on the biofuels, VAT, excise taxes, taxes and the like. The economic space of biofuels in Croatia currently controls and regulates a number of state institutions, resulting in an inaccuracies and inconsistencies of existing regulations. Such an approach has proved to be inefficient and insufficient to achieve the production of biofuels and the development of a new economic branch. One reason is the lack of expertise and lack of knowledge of technical issues related to biofuels in state administration bodies, which was recognised by a representative of the Ministry of Economy on the Environment Protection Committee in a certain way. It is therefore necessary to establish an expert body, the Biofuels Agency, which will assist the ministries in better quality of operations while at the same time making it easier for biofuel producers to implement planned projects more easily, with their inclusion in the Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that this way and such a strategy would be an indication that the production of biofuels and renewable energy sources in general for the Republic of Croatia is one branch of exceptional strategic interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68543	Thank you very much. Two are correcting an incorrect quote. First respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a statement from a colleague about the government that's incorrect, but also untasteful, I don't think we really need to go to that level. I can also say that the government's quality depends on the quality of the opposition, which they also say somewhere. But I think the opposition has a very high quality about it, so then probably the government is also high quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68545	Thank you. The second is the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68546	Thank you very much, Vice President. I want to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague that we prefer biodiesel in Croatia, believe me, colleagues, if it were so I would be very happy and most agronomists would be happy because it would mean that today we have at least 30 or 50 thousand acres under our oiled tail. Unfortunately, and what little bit of diesel is produced in Croatia is produced from imported oils, which means it was taken back from our agriculture and markets that could be found right in the direction of the biodiesel and where luck that the diesel was started to favour in 2001 when the first high-quality studies were made and when it proved that we have resources, we have knowledge, but there was no will to launch projects that were then drawn up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68547	Thank you very much. Next up is the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honorable Representative Marina Matulović-Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68548	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Biofuels on Transport in 2010 which brought the existing Biofuels Act on Transport into line with the requirements of Directive 2009/28. promoting the use of renewable energy in the biofuels part. Directive 2009/28. is part of the European Union climate-energy package for the period up to 2020, which includes reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, increasing energy efficiency by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption by 20%, and a binding target for each country from a minimum share of renewable energy in transport fuels. By adopting a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia in October 2009 The Croatian Parliament defined a strategic target of 10% share of renewable energy in total energy consumption in transport by 2020. The law regulates the production, trade and storage of biofuels and other renewable fuels, the issue of dedicated charges for the promotion of biofuel production and who the bonds are, what the level of compensation is, what the method of payment is, and then the system of encouraging the production of biofuels, regardless of whether it was a means of stimulating, the level of incentives or the like, and the powers and responsibilities for determining and implementing the policy of promoting the production and use of biofuels in transport. The purpose of the Law was to achieve sustainable development objectives in the field of transport, to reduce negative environmental impacts, to improve fuel security in an environmentally acceptable way, to meet the needs of consumers for fuel and to meet the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the area of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and to encourage the production and use of biofuels in transport as a substitute for diesel fuel or motor gasoline. For the purpose of reducing emissions, consideration shall be given to the savings of CO2 emissions throughout the biofuel production cycle, as the manufacturer must demonstrate the sustainability of the production of biofuels. The Republic of Croatia aims to cover the consumption of biofuels from 10% to 2020 with its own production of biofuels, which is intended to achieve by increasing yields and by increasing farmed crops which are raw materials for the production of biofuels, and without importing raw materials, i.e. the production of biofuels based on raw materials from domestic agricultural and other production. In particular, it should be noted that the Republic of Croatia is determined that biofuel raw materials cannot compete with food. In addition to biofuels from grains and biofuels of another generation of biofuels, biodiesel will be produced from waste edible oil. In order to produce biodiesel and save in environmental protection, the Republic of Croatia has already introduced such care and will continue to encourage the collection and processing of waste and edible oil. The total production capacity of biofuels in Croatia was 61,000 tonnes of biodiesel in 2009. During 2009, 6333 tonnes of biodiesel were produced in the Republic of Croatia, a small part of which was placed on the domestic market. About 10% of biodiesel is produced from collected waste and edible oil. The imports of biocomponent-fuels into the five percentage volumes of shares in the Republic of Croatia imported 2520 tonnes of biodiesel and 3633 tonnes of bioethanol. The share of biofuels in motor fuels in 2009 was only 0.3%. In accordance with the Law on Biofuels for Transport, a National Action Plan was developed to promote the production and use of biofuels in transport for the period 2011/20. containing the national target of placing biofuels on the market from 2011 to 2020 but which must apply immediately. According to the national objective, the consumption of diesel fuel and gasoline is envisaged, and given the existing capacity for the production of biofuels in Croatia, the types and quantities of biofuels to be placed on the market of the Republic of Croatia by 2020 and this: the biodiesel that was 18 and a half thousand tonnes in this year up to the amount of 180000 tonnes bioethanol in this year up to the amount of 34500 to 2020. Furthermore, all technical preconditions for the placing of compressed biogas as third species on the market of the Republic of Croatia will be met by 2016. It's that these are very good numbers. But we also have to do everything we can to make it happen by 2020. The biggest contribution to greenhouse gas emissions in 2007 is the energy sector with 73.5%. Industrial processes follow 12.6%. Agriculture 10.5. Waste management 2.7% and solvent use and other 0.7% products. This structure has been retained throughout the period from 1990 to 2007. Transport contributes to total energy emissions ranging from 18% to 27%. The biggest contribution to the emissions is road traffic from 86 to 94%, and the increasing trend in emissions expected and the future is due to increased mobility and the number of road motor vehicles. Total fuel consumption in road transport between 1990s and 2,000ths of the seventh year is increasing by 70.1%. The trend in growth was also reported from 2000 to 2007 by 43.6%. The consumption of diesel fuel throughout the 1990-2007 period increased, thus spending was about three times higher than in 1990. In 2007, the share of fuel consumption in total fuel consumption was 37%, the elevator was 60% while the gas ingested was 2.7%. Since its own supply of crude oil is continuously falling, as well as the segment of imports of crude oil, raw oil processing activities in domestic refinery facilities are continuously substituted by imports of finished oil derivatives. As regards the use of biofuels mentioned above, a significantly lower environmental impact is achieved, in particular, with regard to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the increase in energy security or the reduction of dependence on fossil fuels, which is one of the main objectives of energy policy. Because of this, of course, the government did not do what is said, and that is that our Government treated environmental protection only as a cost, not an incentive to revive the economy that we had just heard. Because it is employed only in the protection of the environment of over 5,000 people, new factories have been made for the processing of tyres in Varazdin, electrical and electronic waste in Bistra or Virovitica, and packaging waste in Gračac and Osijek. And because of all of this, I once again say what I said. The government has proposed amendments and additions to the Biofuels Act for transport, which will allow timely response to disturbances in the oil and biofuels market, and will decide on the level of compensation to promote the production of biofuels for transport and the single amount of monetary incentives for the production of biofuels for transport. As the production of biofuels for transport in the Republic of Croatia is in economic difficulties, and we must encourage it because it is simply in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and it is also in the interest of economic recovery to determine the fees to promote the production of biofuels for transport in order to achieve certain results already in 2011. What is most important is that these fees, i.e. incentives, are only given to domestic producers, because the worst thing would be to start importing them. I've already said that the government has also come up with an action plan. Therefore, this plan should begin to be followed urgently. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68549	Thank you very much. Next is the HSS club, the respected representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68550	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and deputies, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Director. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support amendments to the Biofuels Act for Transport. We at the HSS Club believe that these changes are on the trail of support for domestic producers, of course, in order to form the system itself and in line with what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is and I believe all well-intentioned advocates are in the interest of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore about helping producers through incentives to produce biofuels, which will be prescribed by the government according to the economics ministry's proposal. According to some information obtained from the Ministry of Economy, they are based on the current state of the stock exchanges, the unit amount for the promotion of biodiesel will be, or biofuels, 4 kuna per litre, and will be allocated to producers, and 4 liters per litre of fuel would have to be allocated from the fuel price, which would actually go through CROTE, and then paid through CROTE to the producers themselves. We think it is a very generous incentive, and we at the Croatian Peasant Party Club welcome this proposal to amend and supplement the Biofuels Act. Today, there are three biodiesel plants in Croatia, an estimate that 18 and a half thousand tonnes of biofuels are produced somewhere. Of course, the start of biofuel production in the countries of the European Union has been recorded long ago, already in the 1980s, and lately more and more public discussion is being made about the link between the production of the first generation of biofuels, which are based on wheat, corn, rape oil, and this is linked to the increase in the price of food on the market, and hence the growing commitment to the production of the second generation of biofuels means those biofuels that have raw materials, which are not from food. We here at the HSS Club want to point to the specific potential of agricultural and forest biomass, and waste from agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, which we consider insufficiently used for the production of biofuels, but also for the production of energy and heat. It is important to bear in mind that only 30% of the total quantity can be used in the production of biofuels, while the remaining 70% must return to the ground, so as not to degrade the quality of agricultural surfaces. By 2030 it is estimated that the amount of biomass needs could be increased 2 to 2 times a half, which requires a strategy for the use of biomass, in order to know exactly how much biomass can be processed into biofuels, how much can be given to other industries, and how much to return to the cycle precisely for reasons of preventing the degradation of agricultural areas. Agricultural biomass in itself is, of course, directly deficient, volume and low energy value per unit of surface, but by means of thickening techniques, i.e. pelletsing can occur for efficient use, so that about 2 kilograms of pellets has a huge value of a litre of lush oil. Such peltated biomass is suitable for use in home systems and industrial plants. The residues of the comets from the production of olive oil have the energy value of coal, and the horticultural biomass that remains after the planting of fruit trees and which is often uncontrollably burned has a potential of about 6 fifths of energy in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The important potential of biomass is recognised in domestic production through which it is possible to provide about 15 times more jobs compared to the use of fossil fuels, while profits remain within the Republic of Croatia, and that is why the HSS club advocates supporting the production and production of energy and fuel from biomass. Furthermore, the adoption of Directive 91/676 of the European Union, on the protection of water, from pollution caused by nitrates of agricultural origin, and the transposition of that Directive into Croatian legislation, opens up a new possibility of applying a stabilised fertiliser to agricultural areas, which can be produced either by composting or anaerobic fermentation, creating methane as a by-product. In view of its greenhouse potential, research has shown that the amount of methane from agricultural production contributes to around 10% of the total greenhouse gases mimicred in the atmosphere in Europe. Due to all the above mentioned biogas plants, they represent a solution to that problem, because by mixing manure for agricultural waste in controlled conditions, biogas that can be used as energy and fermented residues which can be applied to agricultural areas in accordance with the said Directive. The potential biogas has been known since the 18th century, the first biogas plants from the '50s, the 60s of the last century in Europe still work today. In Germany, there is a trend in the number of biogas plants that have over 4000. The European Union also promotes large and small industrial biogas plants, adapted to family economies. The potential of Croatian livestock and food industry is a huge resource in the production of biogas, estimated at around 9th wheel of electricity and heat. It is possible to achieve an increase in the number of employees in the sector by placing that resource in place, with the exception of direct cost reductions, to reduce the independence of energy imports, and to remove agriculture from the contaminants that pollute the environment. In Croatia currently, according to our information, 17 biogas plants are increasing and there are good conditions for paying off investments in biogas plants. Although households and legal entities pay incentives for renewable energy sources, the HBOR has the intended funds of around 5 million kuna to subsidise biogas plants, the real obstacle is to come up with 33 permits that are often issued in a succession order. We at the HSS Club believe that investors in biogas plants, biofuels and biomass plants must be relieved of the way permits are made. Following numerous permits to launch the facility is a narrow throat, and our administration is often inexorable. Energy generation from renewable sources is still uncompetitive, and the promotion of the development of this sector is achieved through combined incentives. We put ourselves in the HSS Club to encourage the development of domestic industry for the production of components or plants for the use of renewable energy sources, and the Ministry of Economy launched special support 6 years ago with the aim of developing this sector, but unfortunately no greater progress has been made, and often because of complicated procedures, but sometimes poor corporate decisions by certain corporate companies, which did not want to find a partner for joint production, and failed to complete their own projects. At this point we see a chance to develop small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, especially in the use of biofuels and biomass in combined energy production systems. We at the HSS Club believe that the time has come for a comprehensive Law on Renewable Energy Sources, so that we no longer have an empty walk, and in order to meet all the obligations we have made from the Kyoto Protocol. The emissions of greenhouse gases in renewable energy production is 0%, and we have to use our potential, because otherwise we will have to pay more than 2% of GDP annually, in order to implement the commitments undertaken which will block any further economic development. Therefore, this is the final moment for all decision-makers to move forward, to take seriously the commitments that Croatia has made, but also to start to value in a stronger way our natural resources and solar energy and wind energy and water energy, as well as the high potential of forest and agricultural biomass, and to support the production of energy and heat from these renewable sources through concrete financial support from local to national level. But also, to find a model to support domestic technology producers who would then, of course, find their place on the Croatian market, not that these components are imported from the outside, because then it looks like we're actually encouraging the industry and technology of some other countries. As I said, here's the HSS Representatives' Club will support the Law on Amendments to the Biofuels Act for Transport. We believe that these changes are welcome, they represent support for the domestic economy, domestic producers and help better fit the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68551	Thank you. It's HNS-HSU's turn. In the name of the club, a respected representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of lawmakers, colleagues and colleagues. Biofuels as a renewable energy source are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia because they can replace fossil fuels for transport that participate in total energy consumption with more than 30% with a steady growth trend and represent a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the production and use of biofuels meets other objectives and has reasons to promote them, which is a contribution to security of supply and an increase in economic activity, i.e. they can contribute to regional development. The biodiesel and its mixtures are an excellent substitute for mineral diesel, but unfortunately they will never replace it just because there is not enough land in the world to grow grains that would cover global fuel needs. However, biodiesel is still not competitive with mineral diesel without subsidies or tax exemptions except in cases of extremely high oil prices or extremely low vegetable oil prices. The 2005 government regulation sets a national target that says the share of biofuels in the total share of fuel in the Republic of Croatia should be 5.75% by the end of 2010. Of course it didn't happen for a number of reasons. Croatia currently has several plants to produce functional biodiesel. However, the quantities of rape oil and biodiesel produced are negligible, and as a future EU member, we should have spent 157 thousand tonnes of biodiesel in total fuel consumption by 2010. In fact, currently the total production of biodiesel is moving only somewhere here and there are two data, colleagues have mentioned 18 thousand tons, I found 28 thousand tons on the Internet. No matter what tone it is, it's more than too small. And more importantly, only minor amounts are spent in Croatia. We remind the biodiesel project after adopting the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2000 and appointing the Committee for the Introduction of Bio diesel in the Republic of 2001, several years it stood in someone's drawers to adopt a Regulation on the production of biofuels and then the Biofuels Act. During all this time, almost all of Europe has managed to develop both the production and the oil market whose harvests are sold in advance while Croatia, which according to some estimates has about 250,000 hectares of agricultural land that no one handles the oil turnip, produces only about 15 thousand hectares. And for the purposes of producing edible oil, rape oil in the largest quantities of imports. The national project for the production of biodiesel so far has failed for a number of reasons. Because it may have been approached by megalomaniac rather than by how it was proposed to do so systematically, with smaller plants that should primarily cover the needs of biodiesel at regional level and only then go to large quantities. Of course, enough raw materials had to be provided before that. In fact, very little or almost nothing has happened in connection with the increase in agricultural culture production. Croatia once produced oil mills at more than 100,000 hectares, and today production is moving to about 15 thousand. As long as Croatia does not process even over 49% of the land and has low yields of agricultural cultures we have with such and similar projects and we will have problems. Insurance of raw materials is a basic prerequisite for the production of biofuels. Experts say, and we agree, that Croatia belongs to a rare country that has enough surface area for both food production and biofuel production. The HNS-HSU club supports the proposed amendments and changes to the law, but we are committed to promoting the production of biofuels on the Croatian market with quality monitoring and monitoring of the process from agricultural farming to the production and placement of biofuels on the market of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68553	Thank you very much. The next is the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68554	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the ministry. I'll just show, before I start talking about this topic, news that was on our electronic and written media that may have been a little bombistic, but it has a foundation and basis, says the innovator Ivan Jakobovic from Slavonski Brod is driving a car on water. It is clearly not exclusively water-based but a mixture of classical gasoline and water, in a car where electrolysis is produced by hydrogen used to start the engine so that the fuel saving is a significant, carbon dioxide produced by the engine is significantly less, therefore there is both the ecological and energy effect of the operation of such engines. Here, it's neither biofuel nor biomass, it's a simple water that Croatia says is so abundant. But about that, I don't think there's any interest or interest, or anyone in this government that cares or that anyone would try to do anything about it. Namely, it is not Ivan Jakobović and it is not the first car, in America and Canada for several years there have been such cars, therefore, if they have such technology, then our domestics should be encouraged and developed. It is said that the incentive, the purpose of the proposal for this Act on Amendments to the Law, since the Law before which we adopted in this House entered into force on 24 December 2010, is not even full for two months. We have a re-law or amendment of the Biofuels Act, which exclusively refers to the amount of compensation for the promotion of biofuel production. Today in Croatia, as far as I know, there are three plants that were only diesels, I have not heard that there are any bioethanol factories, nor biogas, but only biodiesel. And then here in terms of production we were elevators in those three factories, at Vukovar's famous silo Gergai then in Ozli and it seems to me that there is in Chepin, then we came into debate about how environmentally acceptable the production was to the diesel and how acceptable and energy savings were and how acceptable the ecological diesel was. In fact, if it is culture cultivation, it is primarily the oily turnip for the production of biodiesel, then it requires enormous amounts of artificial fertilisers, it is true that there are about 250 thousand hectares of unprocessed surfaces in Croatia. Given that Croatia imports most of the food, obviously Croatia does not need large agricultural areas for food production, since it is all calmed down from imports such as the intention or strategy of our agricultural production to encourage livestock production, and then reduce incentives for pig farming, and then encourage even imports of pigmeats and thus destroy domestic pigmeat production. I am afraid that these measures, which encourage the production of oilseed rape in the Republic of Croatia for the production of diesel, will end in an infamous way, in order to meet all European conditions, pre-conditions, directives, etc., if we do not pay for the foam, to say "pennels", then we will import the diesel in order to settle the 10% needed to meet all the conditions set and arranged in Europe and by clearly joining Croatia's European Union and the superior Republic of Croatia. 30%, therefore, of the pollutants or 30% of the exhaust gases that pollute the atmosphere and under that Kyoto Protocol, which we all love to mention, is being broadcast in transport. First of all in road transport, 30% of polluters, therefore, are those involved in transport. We are not Brazil to produce bioethanol, from a cane that produces alcohol that then reduces carbon dioxide emissions in petrol engines or all other harmful gases in the atmosphere. So we can hardly count on it in our domestic production. Biogas production is also a production that can be used now in or produced in small quantities distributed regionally and someone here mentioned the second generation was fuel and our technology and what we have so far introduced in the Republic of Croatia still does not correspond to that second generation so that there is nothing left but now to think about this bio diesel for which Croatia has the conditions for production and in the amount in which it is needed. And I would love it when someone here says that it's only a four-pound incentive per liter as Mrs. Petir said to go to the domestic producers. How much this will lead to soil pollution, one intensive production of rape oil if it is achieved on large surfaces of mineral fuels that will be used in the production of rape oil, how many pesticides and all other things that are needed in the production of rape oil, I think that Europe has no real answer, and that it is wandering according to these directives, which are exactly in this legislative proposal. You see in 2001 there was one recommendation and after a few years came another recommendation, and neither are they sure what and how. For this reason, if there are already five to 12, to be so announced, God forbid it is, but apparently not, for entering the European Union, therefore, although there is this newest directive although the need for 10% of the fuel to be biofuels then we can and the HDSB club will support such a law, but very carefully in the future with what will happen precisely in the field of development and in the field of use of biofuels, especially biofuels, and even more particularly biodiesel. For biogas and bioethanol, I would not be as skeptical as products that could pollute the environment but biodiesel by their own production and use. I'd ask someone if they'd ever gone or been behind a car that works on biodiesel? Yes, it is. And what does that look like I mean for this... organ? Not great. Here you go. So that the HDSSB club will support these amendments to the Biofuels Act for transport and clearly monitor whether it will obtain results for domestic biodiesel producers, so that just as you said it would trigger an economic and economic effect, an effect in relation to the production and processing of biodiesel itself so that perhaps every region in the Republic of Croatia in some smaller plants could produce biodiesel so that it could be available, would not be transported from Vukovar to Dubrovnik in order to have biodiesel there, rather than that it could be produced almost in all parts of Croatia. I don't mean every city and municipality but we have in RH 5, 6 biodiesel factories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68555	Thank you very much. The last registered club is the Club of National Minorities and respected representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68556	Honorable Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In December, we harmonised the Biofuels Act in transport with European legislation and in any case we were happy that the limit of 5.75% of biofuels in transport was moved to 2020 when it would have to be met 10%. Surely, the defeating data here said by Dropulić that this year, when we were to have 5.75% of the biofuels in transport, we satisfied even 0.3f%, but already when we talked at 12 months we warned at the club of national minorities that it was not enough just to align the law, but that we should make a really good strategy and first of all develop encouraging measures because without it there will be no movement and this has proved to be here three months after the last amendment, we are re-changeing the law. This time we are really talking about the incentives of biofuel production, because without incentives anywhere in Europe, or in the world, they are not competitive and should certainly be encouraged, but we should also look at everything that follows the production of biofuels and if it were balanced, there would certainly be a shift in the plus. Indeed, the problem exists also confirms that domestic production of biofuels for transport is in economic difficulties, that it is not competitive to require a full incentive system and is in the interest of economic development. I'm going to repeat here something that I did several times when there was a talk about biofuels here, which is that since 2001, serious altitude studies have been done at the time about biodiesel and it's a shame that it didn't come across understanding and certainly that we would be much easier to talk about today. That study has just suggested that we start with pilot projects somewhere from 5,000 tons of biodiesel production. In parallel, to start producing oil tails, and again, I want to point out that neither then nor then, and I don't think all plans now involve a united action. First of all, the Ministry of Agriculture must work to ensure that raw materials are produced in Croatia, because let us not forget that agricultural production is the basis. This is where the Ministry of Economy handles its segment on energy, unfortunately there is a third segment that is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, that is, construction and environmental protection, and the only joint action we have so far been able to do far more and without joint action I am sure we will not do much more. In fact, only the Ministry of Agriculture must understand that new areas not focused on food production must be included, but which could be directed at the production of biofuel raw materials. Croatia is talking about 250, 300 thousand now unprocessed areas, and we are also talking about almost a million hectares of potential surfaces that could, with small investments, lead to a culture where we could produce exactly the raw materials for the bioenergys we need. Not to mention what agritechnical advantages these are if we introduce a new culture, not to mention that this is a new agricultural employment and a secure market. Because the finished plant that wants to produce any type of biofuels must have a contract with a potential raw material producer, means the market is being secured and we would certainly have fewer problems in agriculture. I've been talking here about how many potential surfaces we have, but let's not forget that we have in current, processing areas enough capacity to produce biofuels. Our production today is far more extensive than it was in 1990, and today we achieve the contributions that we made in the 1970s. And I, the other day, applauded the agricultural show by hearing that there was an enthusiast in the area, I think it was Vukovar-Srijem County producing 12 tons of corn today, 7 tons of wheat, 80 tons of sugar tail per hectare, and our averages are 5.7 corn, 4.3 tons of wheat, or anywhere near 50 tons of sugar beet production. So just a small pawn, a little bit more technology, it's there said by what technology these maximums are produced, it's possible to increase production already on existing surfaces just for as long as we need to produce bio diesel, to produce bioethanol. And I'm not talking about by-products that we talk about very often whether it's waste materials used today by another generation of bioenergys, because, above all, it's based on cellulose, etc., it means waste materials harvested. There are certainly our farms where we have problems, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection will have problems if we do not include management and farms in the fuel production system, in the biogas production system because in this way we are doing a double benefit on the one hand, resuscitating exactly what makes the underlying problem, and so this will be connected to the nitrate directive, on the other hand we get bio gas that can be directed in a positive direction of bioenergy production. Someone here mentioned that food production requires the production of artificial fertilisers, and there are other productions that certainly release CO2. However, looking at the scientific papers recently proved that somewhere compared to 100%, 40% are produced for what is needed to produce carbon dioxide and that it is... a balance somewhere 60%, these are scientific papers, so we don't have to be afraid of it. Equally, we do not have to fear that too much food will go to energy, so I will return you to our past when we have spent more than 30% for the horsepower that has greatly spent means live, or food products, and there has been enough food production for the population whether Croatia and beyond. So, once again I want to stress we support these changes, we support everything that goes in the direction of incentives and production of all bioenergys, but we think that the action plan must be united seriously by all three ministries, that without producing its own raw materials, all of this is just spilling over to someone else in Europe and yet our agriculture will remain unemployed, we will continue to encourage our farmers, they will complain that they have no markets and here is really the potential that can be positively used. So I'd like to say a little bit more on the action plan, that a little bit more coordination of these ministries if we had understanding in 2001 today, at least we'd have a higher percentage of the diesel, we'd be better at working on bioethanol for which raw materials we certainly have because our Slavonia can produce enough corn and for the purposes of livestock and for export, and certainly for bioethanol, that we're not talking about how we're not going to be able to produce sugar tail because we're going to have limited sugar quotas relative to Europe. Here and here we can direct a part of not only waste by sugar beet projects but directly sugar tail into the ethanol production chain and in any case Croatia can meet its needs and these 10% as much as it should have by 2020, in transport certainly much more tomorrow become an exporter only if this programme is quality-set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68557	Thank you very much. We're now going to an individual debate, and it's also time to file further reports, so we have 5 reported for individual debates. First of all, the esteemed representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68558	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Biofuels are a product of high technology that is constantly developing, as such biofuels differ in a series of properties. The main benefits of biofuels are less environmental pollution and long-term energy security insurance, but some biofuels contribute more than others. Therefore, questions that need to be asked are much more complex which biofuels are desirable and not. How to direct our own production of the biofuels we want. The answer to such questions cannot be black white yes or no, but rather requires deeper knowledge of matter and relying on scientific research sources. So it is precisely awareness that it has driven the European Union to implement large funds in research to find out which biofuels it wants to produce and encourage. That knowledge has been incorporated in recent amendments to our legislation. In any event, it is necessary to avoid an error in the identification of biodiesel as the most famous biofuels with biofuels in general. So biodiesel is the most extensive biofuel in Europe, so along with the most widely used bioethanol in the United States and South America, it belongs to a group of first-generation biofuels. These biofuels are mostly obtained from classical cultures such as corn, soybeans, sugar tails or oils such as palm oil. On the other hand, biofuels of the second generation represent innovation of great importance because they completely eliminate some of the first generation shortages. It is produced from a bio-mass that is not usable in the food industry and often represents waste. For example, waste from the wood and food industry, which is used twice as useful because it represents a saving on the disposal of waste on the one hand and a profit in the form of biofuels obtained on the other hand. There are also third-generation biofuels that can be obtained from seaweed and technological development moves towards the development of the fourth generation biofuels. It is therefore a sector of crucial importance for the future and its development of the necessary precondition for sustainable development. The most important benefits of biofuels are the renewableity of the sources of domestic production, biodegradability which means that it cannot cause ecological disasters such as oil. Low levels of sulphur emissions and other harmful things, with other biofuels significantly reduced carbon dioxide emissions. A strong criticism that has been directed towards diesel in recent years, which calls for carbon dioxide emissions to be greater in burning that fuel than in burning down classic gasoline and diesel, in fact, not taking into account two facts. First, that carbon dioxide emissions are not the only benchmark to which a fuel is designated as desirable or undesirable, but all other advantages listed above should be taken into account. Second, that biodiesel fuels differ significantly, so there are some who really emit large amounts of carbon dioxide, and there are those in which this is not the case. The latest findings on the need to regulate the signed production and consumption of biofuels in such a way as to make maximum use of those biofuels that are superior and quality are incorporated into the new regulation of the European Union and, with the latest amendments to the Biofuels Act, have been incorporated into Croatian legislation. The sustainability requirement incorporates restrictions that eliminate the possibility of giving incentives to biofuels that do not contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and further priorities are to protect certain types of land because of land that are more strategically important for the achievement of the sustainable development objective. Article 27 of biofuels which do not comply with the sustainability requirement are excluded from the calculation of the performance of the biofuels obligation on the market. Furthermore, Article 19 also sets out a price limit which biofuels must not cross if the manufacturer wishes to exercise the right to incentives. Further conditions apply to the ban on the export of biofuels for which the incentive is granted and to respect the methodology for the production of biofuels to be prescribed by the Regulation. The obligation to advertise biofuels is also prescribed to encourage its consumption. So all the provisions are clearly aimed not only at encouraging the production and consumption of biofuels but also at targeting these incentives by best encouraging the achievement of the strategic objectives of the Republic of Croatia in this sector. In particular, Article 8(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 provides that the production of biofuels from waste and scrap will be encouraged, provided that it fulfils the condition of reduced greenhouse gas emissions, and point 3 of this Regulation determines that biofuels produced from waste, residues of non-food, cellulose and lignocellulous raw materials will be counted twice in the calculation of the fulfilment of the national biofuels target on the market. It is certainly the biofuels already mentioned in the second generation whose production and use should be particularly encouraged because these are new technologies whose application is twice useful and is a guideline for the development of the energy sector of the future. Harmonisation with the newest European Union Directive of 2009 actually means the adoption of the latest knowledge from the sector marked by continuous technological innovations and whose regulation depends on the possibilities of conducting expensive and extensive research that Croatia alone could not afford. The successful development of the biofuel generation sector as well as the general renewable energy generation sector is a condition for every country that wants to ensure a safe energy future under the conditions of rising global prices of classical energy and a decline in fossil fuel supply. The question arises whether or not to encourage the production and use of biofuels due to some shortcomings that are characteristic of current technology means ignoring the necessity of long-term planning in the energy sector. There are shortcomings in some types of biodiesel fuels, but these kinds of difficulties are expected in sectors that use advanced technology and tend to achieve more strategic objectives in parallel. Whatever criticism is focused on the cost of biodiesel is the fact that the European Union has drawn ambitious production and use targets for biofuels and that the main role in achieving this goal has just taken over biodiesel in its various variants. From 2005 to 2009, biodiesel production in the European Union has almost tripled, from 3 million tonnes to 9 million tonnes per year, which only confirms that it is a rapidly growing sector. Croatia has great potential to develop production of almost all biofuels, and in particular it should encourage the production of second generation biofuels that is complementary to other Croatian industries, such as the wood industry, which is proposed by changes and additions and makes it easier to obtain incentives for the production of that type of biofuels. I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68559	Thank you very much. The individual debates followed by the respected representative Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68560	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. This is why the amendments to this law are primarily because domestic production of biofuels for transport is in difficulty, is not competitive production of natural oil products and requires the full application of the biofuel production incentive system already this year. Although there have been observations why I think it is good that we have changes that adapt here and this economic crisis and allow faster results to come out of the economic crisis. Biofuels are of particular interest to the European Union, of course, and also to the Republic of Croatia because, in addition to contributing to environmental protection, it was also one of the most important reasons to encourage their use of their production and diversification of energy sources, but also to increase energy security. Under biofuels, we have already heard here, namely biodiesel and bioethanol, but also other liquid and gas fuels defined in the Biofuel Quality Regulation. And the raw materials for the production of biodiesel are rape oil, sunflower, soybeans, palm oil, waste edible oil, and for the production of bioethanol corn, wheat and barley. The yields of these cultures are low, so under such conditions of production there is no reserve for the production of droplet biofuels from the fruit of these cultures. The Republic of Croatia set a goal of increasing yields and increasing farmland to achieve the target of renewable energy sources in transport by 10% in 2020, i.e. without imports of raw materials. the production of biofuels based on raw materials from domestic agricultural and other production. Biofuels of other generations include biofuels derived from waste residues of agricultural production of non-food, cellulose and lignocellulose materials. Although technologies are still developing the Republic of Croatia creates conditions for the immediate application of these fuels. It is important here to highlight the fact that Patir also pointed out, that out of the total biomass produced in the field 40% must be returned to the ground, 30% to feed the animal, and only 30% is used to produce biofuels. The Republic of Croatia has significantly larger oranic surfaces than it is now used, so it is realistic to expect the activation of the active surfaces to achieve the goal set, so I believe that this change will also enable the current one to encourage better use of agricultural areas. In addition to second-generation biofuels and biofuels, biofuels and biofuels will also be produced in accordance with the strategy. The biofuels law for transport therefore regulates the activity of biofuel production in such a way as to regulate the issue of dedicated charges for the promotion of biofuel production, means bonds, the amount of compensation, the manner of payment and the rest. In addition, a biofuel production incentive system is regulated, and this way of stimulating, altitude, the type of biofuels whose production is stimulated, the minimum and maximum encouraged quantity, the way in which the rights to incentives are exercised, etc. The quality regulation regulates the area of production of biofuels in the sense that it determines which products are considered biofuels, as well as the limits of the characteristics of biofuel quality, of course, those placed on the market in the domestic market. Furthermore, many sub-legislative acts have also been designed to encourage the production of biofuels for transport, the specific environmental compensation if biofuels are not placed on the market, the process to achieve the incentives for production, the way and conditions of application of the sustainability requirement in production and use, the measures to promote use and the unitary amount of monetary incentives for the production of biofuels and the unitary amount of biofuels. Here although it is here recently at the end of last year we passed the amendments to the law I will only remind you of the most significant provisions of this very proposal, so I will mention that the national objective of putting biofuels on the market is set. So from these changes as mandatory, not a planned framework goal which I consider to be very significant. Furthermore, a demand for sustainability as a new legal institute has been introduced, and with the aim of protecting land relevant for the conservation of biodiversity, the protection of land with a high supply of carbon and shale, as well as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the emissions generated by diesel fuel and motor gasoline. It is good that meeting the sustainability requirement and the conditions for payment are the incentive and recognition of and the energy of biofuels in the quota to meet the national objective. There are also assumptions for the sustainable development of the production and use of biofuels as well as the simplified planning system in a way that does not affect the quality and feasibility of planning. The principle of monitoring of the county and large cities programmes at the annual level and the obligation to align the objectives of the plan with the real conditions in the event of significant deviations has been retained. I expect that the implementation of solutions proposed and previous and these changes will result in the achievement of the sustainable development objectives in the transport sector by reducing negative environmental impacts, improving the security of fuel supply in an environmentally acceptable way, meeting the needs of consumers for fuel, meeting the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and fostering the production and use of biofuels in transport as a substitute for diesel fuel and gas, to coordinate and strengthen cross-sectoral link and coordination of activities between agriculture and forestry, environmental protection, industry, energy and financing. But also these changes in aid and domestic biofuel producers through incentives, and we see that this is a good and significant incentive and I will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68561	Thank you very much. It is up to the honourable representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68562	Dear Mr. President, honorary Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, the law certainly needs to be supported even though it is the third change in the last year and a half. However, some questions are usually asked here. Consider the production of biofuels in the context of strategic plans... The centre, as the main science administration of the European Commission, which aims to achieve an economy based on small carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere and such a competitive economy is rounded in the European Union. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Science and technology, development plays an extremely large role in this coherent system. In contrast, let us look at our law, the Biofuels Act, where it states that the modes and conditions, the period of application of the sustainability requirement in the production and use of biofuels, and the methodology for calculating the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the emissions generated by the use of diesel fuel and motor gasoline are prescribed by a regulation that brings the Minister in cooperation with the Minister responsible for the protection of the environment, the Minister responsible for the protection of nature, the Minister responsible for Agriculture and the Minister for Forestry. So, that rule should please six ministers and make them, and then that rule should come into force, and of course it is not even in the beginning, let alone in the National Journal. In other words, and the Biofuels Act for transport and this action plan as it is called, just an hour, which is also not easy to find on the Ministry of Economy's website because it's buried somewhere deep in that so-called so-called. a deep web. Therefore, the National Action Plan for the Promotion of Production and Use of Biofuels in Transport for the period 2011 to 2020 is also referred to that sustainability and use Regulation. But for now, it's all in the sphere of good wishes, and we really don't have the data from either the law or the National Action Plan or this phantom rule, we don't have the data on how much the final balance is related to the release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Actually, we don't have any information on the so-called. carbon footprints released by biofuel production. So, as usual, we make action plans, laws, etc. That is why in order to bring our legislation into line with the European acquis but the rules of the chronic cascade and Croatia will happen that at the moment we enter the European Union we will have to bring hundreds and thousands of different regulations, some of which are such complexity that the halves of the government, the ministers of the halves should participate in them, who will coordinate it, who will do so, and especially in this context that the Republic of Croatia has not yet initially seen the European Commission, which of its institutions such as the Chief Science Administration, has ordered them to carry out some research, so no project signings, etc., but pure coercion, force, for that you are trained to elect and do so, make a study, etc. As a result, the European Commission also has a coherent development strategy by 2020, which is based on a small carbon dioxide economy in the atmosphere, sustainable management of natural resources, food safety and general consumption products, nuclear safety, then crisis management, reference materials and measurement. How much esteemed colleagues and colleagues need to be strong technology in order to increase the efficiency of this beautiful desire to produce biofuels, and we at today's level of technological progress and the state of things in the Republic of Croatia are able to produce about a thousand litres of biofuels per hectare, and Western countries and far more. Now aside from this eternal dilemma that is also being debated in scientific circles, how much actual use of food for energy production has caused chain reactions to increase hunger in undeveloped countries, but well this is now a different issue, but also a question about Croatia how to involve science in and technology in these processes. And we have a chronic pain that the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Economy is not working well together, especially on some infrastructure projects from the negotiating chapter 1 of the freedom of movement of goods, so for example, the failure to function of the national measuring institute threatens to reopen once-closed chapters, because some good wishes and intentions that are not practically realized have been drawn up, so the government does not adhere to its own regulations, for example. for three years. So it's similar with this problem we're discussing right now. The essential question is whether we spend more energy and whether we increase carbon footprints by producing biofuels or not? And also, mentioning the 4 kuna incentive for the production of a litre of biofuels, we did not get a decoded response whether such a large level of incentive is sustainable at the moment we enter the European Union, or we will force the producers to start doing this job, so that when the changing conditions of incentives as a fish in the dry are found in problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68563	Thank you very much. And the last to be reported for the hearing is a respected representative, Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68564	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a well-respected colleague and colleagues actually through their club presentations, that is, individually exhibited, and in fact, everything that we all know about this subject, and we can expose. But in any case, here's what I'd like to say is known before all of us, which is that today in the world, there's even a tendency to replace fossil fuels, and the tendency is primarily expressed to go towards the most favourable solution to renewable energy, and then it's either bioenergy, or biofuel, according to the indicators that we could hear today from colleagues and colleagues. It is therefore a subject in any case today as we could hear because of economic development. It can primarily be interpreted in a way that goes towards two basic objectives, which is primarily environmental protection, which is also the basic meaning and what is interpreted as a positive note through reduced CO2 emissions today and through biofuels production. And today, the world economy is seeking to achieve these two basic goals. In fact, what can stimulate the economy in our country, we have to see and hear as examples in other countries of the world. This can encourage regional development primarily, certain regions of our region can benefit from experience. When a Brazil can use sugar text, whether, the American States corn and soybean, the European Union oil rape, sugar tail, wheat, etc., it is certain that the waste of spaces that exist in the territory of the Republic of Croatia may not be used for these purposes, and then clearly multiply all other values resulting from it in an economic sense. Regardless of whether or not we are going to resort to it in the right sense of words through which we are primarily now technologically and methodologically known first generation, which is tanol, biodiesel and biogas because the second generation is not even familiar with us, even though it is certainly the future. Some say not entirely rights, some also talk about algae as the future because as algae they grow 50 to 100 times faster than these traditional cultures to produce biofuels, right? However, the advantage in any case is that mankind also has to talk about living, so its primary source is food, and the advantage of this second generation is that it does not use everything that is the source of food in production. In any case, the impact of biomass on the environment has, in any case, this positive note and compared to fossil fuels that today in the world are less and less because the stocks are at the end of whether and science has already said that these fossil fuels, i.e. those which therefore affect both the environmental and CO2 emissions. It's safe to think that this should be, biofuel should be a solution. But that is also a question because they are not perfect, and science will certainly say the last word there. But, of course, we should also talk about talking and thinking about trying to use all renewable sources in the future, so energy, therefore, and renewable energy sources that are known in particular in Europe, and can be used clearly with us. It is known that 58% of primary energy derived from renewable energy comes from wood in the EU. So there's France, Sweden, Finland, etc. Only in second place is the use of biogas. It's known somewhere around 3,000, so there's more to it than that. So three thousand biogas power plants. And there's also over 450 waste dumps in Europe that valorize biogas. In any case, it can be encouraging for us, or experienced in this sense, because these topics that are being talked about, which is that the biodiesel was just and only biodiesel. He's in the general public most famous, but, clearly, we can't use him again without mixing with minerals. So, in any case, we would all certainly be much happier and more pleased that it really is, as counterpart Chuhnil said, at that level that is spoken of, however unfortunately not. In the end, what I would like to say is that the purpose of this bill is essentially to encourage a domestic producer and not a distributor. And that's the point that we have to accept as such, and the tendency is in any case to expand the interest of the manufacturer, but also on the market. I would not, in any case, agree with those who saw this topic today as a pamphlet against the government because this Government proposal is in any case an incentive to economic development and therefore to get out of the economic crisis, that is, one way to progress. But in any case, I would agree that these sources, renewable energy sources, should be a strategy and thus biofuel for the future. That's why I'm gonna support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68565	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Zdenko and Zdenko came forward. First Zdenko Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68566	Dear fellow Matkovic, in your discussion, you spoke of the favourable influence of biofuels that will have or already have in developed economies to reduce the release of street dioxide in the atmosphere. And in this law, which we will undoubtedly unanimously support as well as in that previous law that we are now correcting, which we also unanimously supported and that 2009 law that we also unanimously supported, we do not have the mechanisms worked out. In fact, we have conditioned an extremely complex way of valorising and methodology of reducing carbon greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, because even a few ministers, therefore the Minister of Economy, environmental protection, nature, agriculture, forestry and nature, therefore culture participate in the adoption of this Regulation. Well, it's so complicated that it's almost inexhaustible. That rule will choke us before it gets here and goes into effect. In 2013, who lives, who dies. How much will the price of oil be compared to this projected amount of biofuels today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68567	Thank you very much. And another replica of the esteemed representative of Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68568	Thank you very much, Vice President. Namely, I just want to replicate my colleague Matkovic, who, speaking of renewable sources, gave biogas priority. Biogas in total renewable sources has an advantage, especially when it comes to generation, or production of electricity, on heat generation. However, we are now focusing on transport energy, and transport primarily favours both biodiesel and bioethanol. In fact, one German favors biodiesel, although it already has high production of bioethanol today. If we go across the ocean and Argentina favors what's normal as raw materials, cane and bioethanol. Brazil, which is slightly more favored by biodiesel because it has enough oil, whether it's soybean oil, whether it's rape oil. So we have to distinguish I say, or go into it if we want to focus more on transport where we need fuel right now, then we certainly have something to do in the field of biodiesel and bioethanol, and when we look at the basis of environmental protection, then first of all we have to re-suscitate the byproduct of any agriculture or agriculture, first of all, and then the biogas has its advantages, because we can produce it very easily, then electricity or excess heat that is produced again can be directed back into agriculture, whether it is greenhouse gas, whether it is produced by cooling devices. Therefore, we have something to develop to talk about, or in which direction, direct energy production or strategy, but also the agricultural strategy, and thus to set up a strategic strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68569	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boris Matkovic has a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68570	Nothing special, I absolutely think I support all of what my colleague Chuhnil said, but maybe you didn't understand me very well. I only mentioned biogas as one of the categories, I didn't even apostrophe him. Maybe you misunderstood me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68571	Okay. Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on this item of the agenda, and we will vote on it as soon as the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68572	We move to the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Biofuels Act for Transport was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 709. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative, State Secretary, Mrs Natasha Vujec, to be made aware of the amendments to the MPs. Amendment one to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68573	Thank you. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. On behalf of the legislator, I accept both amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68574	They become an integral part of the bill. I therefore vote on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the law on biofuels for transport. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This law was adopted unanimously with 107 votes, along with amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68575	We move to the 5th point here, that is - The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State's Attorney's Council of Representatives is the Proposer of this decision by the Committee on Justice. The Committee also carried out the procedure for proposing members of the State's Attorney's Board on the basis of Articles 144 and 145. Law on the State's Attorney's Office and Article 73 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for an act has been sent to you by mail. On behalf of the promoter, member of the Committee on Justice, respected representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68576	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament is based on Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament established at the 56th session held on 11 February 2011. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the National Attorney's Board of Representatives. By virtue of Article 144f(3) of the Law on the State Attorney's Office, it is prescribed that two members of the Council be appointed by the Croatian Assembly from the ranks of their representatives, one of which is one of the lines of opposition. By letter dated 3 December 2010, the Committee requested the clubs of representatives of the Croatian Parliament to propose representatives to keep an eye on the provisions of Article 144f paragraph 3 and paragraph 145 of the Law on the State Attorney's Office. The HDZ representative's club was proposed by MP Ana Lovirn, and the SDP representative's club proposed to MP Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. The following committee set out a proposal for a decision appointing members of the State Attorney's Council from the ranks of MPs who tabled the Croatian Assembly to appoint members of the Council, with the fact that the proposal for a decision reads itself. Therefore, the decision to appoint members of the State's Attorney's Council: "For members of the State's Attorney's Board of Representatives, 1. Ingrid Antičević Marinović and 2. Anna Lovrin." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68577	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We have one application on behalf of the clubs, it's a club of HNS, HSU and on behalf of the club will speak for the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68578	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We have one application on behalf of the clubs, it's a club of HNS, HSU and on behalf of the club will speak for the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68579	Thank you very much. The correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68580	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's very short. The esteemed colleague said that this proposal and the method of appointment actually reduces to the least possible or completely erases the policy impact in terms of the work of the State-Law Council. That's incorrect, and I'm correcting it in context because it's exactly the same solution, so neither more nor less than before. So it's not the same situation as the State Judiciary Council. And so far, we've had a legal solution that two parliamentary deputies, one from the ranks of office, the other from the opposition, were in the State's Attorney's Council. The same legislation remained legal, the same means the ratio or the way members of the State's Attorney's Council are elected, and this is even recognised in Europe as a good solution that was actually re-painted in the way of choosing the State Judiciary Council. Here is only intervention in this sense, nothing in this Council has changed in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68581	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this proposal, unless the motionor... He has no intention of taking the final word. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're going to the next point. This is - The proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State Judicial Council of the Council of Representatives is again the Proposer's Committee for Justice. On behalf of the Committee, on behalf of the Proposer, Honored Representative Emil Tomljanović, member of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Council of Justice of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 73 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament set out at the 56th session held on 11 February 2011 the Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the State Judicial Council from the ranks of MPs. The Commission considers that the measures provided The Law on the State Judicial Council stipulates that two members of the Council shall appoint the Croatian Assembly from the ranks of their representatives, one of which shall be the order of the opposition. By letter dated 6 December 2010, the Committee requested the representatives' clubs to propose representatives to keep an eye on the provision of Article 35. The State Judicial Council Act. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club proposed representative Josip Salapic, and the SDP MPs' club suggested that Josip Lek be represented. Following the statement, the Committee set out a proposal for a decision appointing members of the State Judicial Council from the order of the representatives to the Croatian Parliament for the appointment of members of the Council. Therefore, the proposal for a decision appointing members of the State Judicial Council reads: "For members of the State Judicial Council from the order of the Croatian Parliament representatives, the following are elected: 1. Joseph Leco and 1. Joseph Salapic." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68584	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68585	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I wouldn't have answered, and I wouldn't have spoken on behalf of the club if it hadn't been for this misunderstanding. Namely, if you had listened well to my discussion under the last item of the agenda, I included both of them, so our mission to appoint also two members of the State-Court Council and the State Judicial Council, and in this context certainly is to reduce the political influence in the process of electing members of the State Judicial Council as one of the very important links in our monitoring process, which we have in order to meet the criteria around Chapter 23. The proposed personnel solutions and Mr. Salapic and Mr. Lek will support the HNS and HSU club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68586	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote on this motion when the conditions come to pass, I hope tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68587	We move on to the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the National Lawyer's Council of Representatives. Proposer of the Justice Committee. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the National Lawyer's Council of Representatives. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. The result? This proposal was accepted by the majority of votes, 105 votes for, 3 abstentions, nothing against, in the text proposed by the Justice Committee. We move to the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the State Judicial Council from the House of Representatives. Proposer of the Justice Committee. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the State Judicial Council from the House of Representatives. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. The result? This motion for a decision was adopted by the majority of votes, 106 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against, in the text proposed by the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68588	The next item of the agenda is - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Funding Agreement concerning the Test Programme for the Conservation and Reconstruction of Cultural Heritage in the Western Balkans for 2009 between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 711 You received the proposal by mail. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we agreed to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received reports from the board at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain this proposal? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, Carlo Gjurasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68589	Dear Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. The final proposal for a law on the confirmation of this agreement refers to part of the European Commission's programme for the architectural heritage project, in the full term "The heritage as a means of development, the restoration of architectural heritage in the centre of the City of Vukovar, the sustainable restoration and development of the war of the destroyed Croatian community". The total value of this project is 1 million and 340 thousand euros, of which the European Union provides a million euros of grants, and the Republic of Croatia 340 thousand euros at the position of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, or the City of Vukovar Reconstruction and Development Fund, from which the costs will be co-financed following the next two financial years, 2011 and 2012 amounting to 170 thousand euros for each financial year. The project aims to restore the external appearance of the most representative national monument by warring the affected city of Vukovar in the Republic of Croatia, a working home, or former hotel Grand. It also contributes to the preservation of the city centre, the promotion of intercultural and interethnic dialogue within the community and the process of social and economic recovery of Vukovar. The project will continue to promote cultural diversity and common heritage and information dissemination activities by improving the intercultural heritage dialogue shared by all the citizens of Vukovar, and by enabling the development of human potential capacity and further economic development. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure so that the implementation of this valuable project, which has been co-financed by the European Union, could begin within the planned deadlines and agreed dynamics. I am obliged to point out that for this project, all documents and building permits are required. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68590	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And we're going clubbing. First of all, the HDZ club and respected representative Bozo Biskupić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68591	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The tragic war that struck us with its fierceness and caused unimaginable destruction I would say and forever determine the image of the end of the last century, but forever for Croatia determined the obligation of a different new approach to the monumental heritage, its protection, preservation and restoration both in relation to the state and all those who take care of the Croatian heritage. Nothing more and it won't and it can't be the same. The memorial heritage of Croatia is characterized not only by its unquestioned roots in European heritage but also by the strong originality and independence that some other European cultures did not have. According to its cultural and historical diversity and monumental wealth, Croatia has a separate position in the historical entire Western European culture to which we belong. That is why every mention of the city of heroes, on every occasion where Vukovar is present as part of our memory but also our Croatian future culture is part of the Vukovar reality. It reminds her it lasts and it will last. Thanks to our history, but also to all those who have decided to return it to where it always belongs by remembering the most difficult Werewolf days we always think first of the man, the ones that are not there, many of whom we do not know where, those who have managed to survive the werewolf hell on behalf of all of them and the great sacrifices they have suffered for Vukovar, we owe Croatia to them at this time in order to prepare them for co-existence. The restoration of Vukovar is both a deep intellectual and moral challenge. The cultural goods of this city were the direct and conscious goal of destroying, robbing, unremembered forms of barbarism in a war more tragic than any other. Today, partly restored, but inspired by a firm vision of a new life, he will revive the renewed energy of love for the city, its history and its future. In the full eight centuries of its cultural development surrounded baroque whole of historical Vukovar, and within it special targets of the destruction of Franciscan monasteries and churches, the castle of Eltz and the chapel of St. Mihovila, the home of Lavoslav Ružička, a workhouse, a water tower and numerous other monuments are examples that gave a specific sign in that part of continental Croatia. Along with numerous projects to restore the city of Vukovar, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and projects supported by UNESCO for certain proposals of museum programmes, with programmes to restore alienated cultural heritage in which the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy is working intensively with the City Museum of Vukovar as well as a well-founded headquarters for the restoration of cultural monuments and cultural heritage of the city of Vukovar, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has a special place. The project "Art Vukovar" heritage as a means of development, the restoration of architectural heritage in the centre of the city of Vukovar is a sustainable resuscitation of the development of the war-hit community and the financing agreement on an experimental programme for the preservation and restoration of cultural heritage in the areas of conflict, according to the Western Balkans. I would tell Southeast Europe for 2009 between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission that it intends to restore cultural heritage sites, contribute to sustainable development and improve intercultural dialogue and reconciliation, and raise awareness of cultural diversity in Southeast Europe in particular among young people and support economic development. The programme plans an external reconstruction of the cultural monument building from the beginning of the 20th century, the Baroque House in the Baroque Centre of Vukovar, which will be prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, and it is important to complete the full renewal of the Working House and to highlight this in particular that the activities of local, non-governmental organisations should be directed towards promoting intercultural dialogue and inclusive work with young people. The project represents progress in continuing the participation of the International Community in the reconstruction of the City of Vukovar and follows a partial renewal of the programme units of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, research, reconstruction and revitalisation of the cultural heritage of Ilok, Vukedol in Vukovar. The preliminary project of restoration of the monumental heritage of Vukovar-Srijem County, which was first publicly presented at the international cultural forum, the working community of the Danube regions, on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of its activities held in Ilok, Vukovar and Osijek, which the Republic of Croatia encouraged by a full member in 2004 the Ministry of Culture to develop a proposal for a multi-layered project of research, reconstruction and... cultural heritage of Iloka, Vukovar and Vukedol for the purpose of competition with international means. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The project is funded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia 25% and the Council of Europe Development Bank. He's actually weighing 260 million kuna. It is an integral part of the new multidisciplinary programme of sustainable development in the area with a common objective of development on the principle of protection and promotion of cultural landscapes as components of the economic project and the promotion of the development of this entire area. The implementation and implementation of the project is conducted on behalf of the Government Ministry of Culture, and it includes experts from the University of Vukovar and Ilok Museum, conservatory departments in Vukovar and Osijek, the Croatian Restaurant Institute, the Faculty of Philosophy and Architecture of the University of Zagreb, along with a number of other experts already involved in a number of smaller projects in this area from Croatia, with full cooperation from the cities of Ilok, Vukovar and the County of Vukovar-Srijemska. Let's remind ourselves. In the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, the base of the assessment of war damage was found to have destroyed 250 monumental objects, 123 of which were in the category of historical building, 21 of which was completely destroyed, 50 in part, which is also the highest percentage of destroyed or severely damaged historical buildings of all the war-affected historic city centres in Croatia. In the area of the town of Vukovar, heavy damage was created at the Franciscan monastery complex with the church of St. Philip James, as well as at the baroque palace of the hotel court, at the high school building, at many other palaces and villas and buildings. The damages of severe damage have also been found at other sacral facilities in Vukovar, the chapel of Our Lady of Oaks, the church of St. The hands, the chapels of St. Cross and numerous others. Based on the results of this assessment during the Homeland War in Croatia almost 35% of the total legally protected monumental heritage fund,... It's completely destroyed. [[You don't understand.]] Only in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County was it damaged as I said 250 monumental buildings. A large number of items, artistic or documentary values have disappeared from houses, or together with houses devastated from burned settlements. Worthy rural units, wealth and diversity of the mere tradition have been desolated, and its roots in these areas. Based on the relevant documentation from the assessment of war damage, Croatia is still searching through the Ministry of Culture, but also establishing a way of alienating, disappearing or destroying 24 thousand 843 museum objects from 45 Croatian museums, and 3 thousand 97 cultural goods from monasteries, churches, monasteries and private collections as well as archive materials and library buildings. Based on a meeting of the interstate committee on the return of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, held at the end of 2010, the Serbian part of the interstate commission on the return of cultural goods was obliged to establish the final number of cultural goods still in storage at the museum... in Belgrade, a patriarchal court in... [[You don't understand.]] The Karlovci, the National Museum of Belgrade and others, due to return to Croatia in the next two years, and the rest will be sought through the Ministry of Interior by both the states and the national departments of Interpol. [[You don't understand.]] From the Republic of Serbia, from 2001 to 2010, 25 thousand and 205 moving cultural goods were returned to museums, and galleries and churches of Vukovar, city museum, collection of Bauer, Franciscan museum of St. Philip Jacob,... The temple of St. [[You don't understand.]] Georgia, in Jasenovac, an immoral museum and other numerous institutions. 29 thousand and 758 items disappeared from the Vukovar Museum, 804, a thousand 440 were destroyed, and 14 thousand 775 items were returned from Serbia in 2001 to Vukovar... The Franciscan monastery in 2004. 3 thousand 833 old and rare books and archive material. [[You don't understand.]] In 2008 in the Vukovar family Paunovic was also... The persecution of the return of cultural goods, two icons were returned from storage and restoration in the province's Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments in the Phase... [[You don't understand.]] works in the same office are icons from the mausoleum of Paunovic in Vukovar. [[You don't understand.]] The Memorial heritage in Vukovar-Srijem County has been part of the private concern of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of course its Ministry of Culture since '96. The years of protection and restoration programmes for the destroyed cultural heritage were co-ordinated through its headquarters for the restoration of the cultural heritage of the city of Vukovar, founded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Expecting a time when the positive energy of this space will be restored, we expect a future that will live in a way worthy of man. The HDZ Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68592	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68593	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is a very important bill, which confirms an important agreement that we hope is the first step in the use of this type of means, in which both the European Commission and in which countries in the region, above all in this case Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro, in the future and others, are testing the possibility of cooperation in restoring what has died during the war period, and represents a specific, significant, cultural and historical heritage. In this sense, it was natural and understandable to choose as the first of the objects to show the success of the application of this agreement, and this cooperation, a working home in the Borov settlement, in Vukovar. First of all, because of the fact that this working home, as my colleague Biskupić here has already pointed out, is really an industrial, factory, modern, architectural building and complex that is actually a whole that is in our space, in the territory of Croatia in many ways unique. At the same time, he said the agreement was meant to represent a point through which not only the ruined architectural structure in the city of Vukovar should be restored, but also the destroyed and destroyed community of the city of Vukovar in its civic and multiethnic and multi-confessional composition. And in this sense, the SDSS Club joins the praises, those who have decided to take this kind of step, and those who have decided that, at least part of the funds needed to rebuild this complex, will be provided from these European Commission funds, of a million euros, and an additional 340 000 euros that our government, with which our government will participate. What I would add, inspired by what my colleague Biskupić said and what we have as knowledge on the ground, let the working home be the first step, but at the same time it should be directed to many other places practically throughout Croatia, where we encounter extremely important cultural historical monuments, whether church, whether secular, whether sacral, whether secular or a few younger layers of importance and historical relevance such as those of the 20th century. So let me mention some of them. I will mention first of all the fact that apart from Vukovar, one of the cities that suffered badly in the war is the town of Pakrac. And in the town of Pakrac we will also find a significant urban core that, unfortunately, to this day, is not restored as much as we would like and should. The core is certainly particularly prominent and particularly important is the Vladic Court, the Episcopic Court of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which, in the early 1990s, suffered on several occasions, so that by agreement and decision both the Serbian Orthodox Church and our government would begin the process of reconstruction. But given the extent of suffering, the scale of destruction will take a long time for him to be brought in, to bring the restoration to an end, and I think it would be good to think about this cultural historical monument as a possible candidate for this agreement in some future projections. Secondly, if I'm already going in some order, another significant object is in the town of Karlovac. Also Eparchy or Episcopal Court, and Episcopal of GornoCarlovakia, which was in the very centre of the town of Karlovac in its old core, which unfortunately was mined in the early 1990s and in which there were still archival buildings and boxes with archival structure important for the eparchy center, but also for the Manastir Gomirje. It would be of paramount importance if we included this project among potential candidates in the future as candidates to which we will achieve a double effect. On the one hand, to restore this important cultural and historical monument, to bring it to its purpose, which means to ensure that Episcopop of Gornokarlovaki has the possibility of tableing in its headquarters, and on the other hand to restore what we rightly pointed out is that it is necessary to restore it when it comes to Vukovar, which is the common life of that city. If we go south towards Dalmatia, Dalmatia, especially in the area of the Zadar hinterland, we will encounter several important objects. The older as possible, the smaller the elderly, but mostly in their own sense they are extremely important and rarely very ancient. I'll mention the area of the crow where we find two localities. One of the former Benedictine monasteries of the 11th century that has been started in the restoration, but in our assessment, this restoration requires huge money. Thus, the Benedictine monastery, which then became a Templar city in the 14th century, i.e. the Ivanski city and which is seen to be in the process of restoration, but there is no doubt that because of historical devastation, the restoration was not renewed during a long time, and also because of the war heritage and the war burden and the closeness of the line of conflict in the area would be extremely important if this significant object had also been run and taken into consideration because it represents a rich tradition. Through him, literally across the road, there is Mašković Han, so Mašković Han, who was built or started construction as a Turkish Han, but was never completed or brought to his purpose, but was built from one significant descendent of that end, so Mašković whether from Vrana or Pakostan at this moment we do not know, but it is a rarity in our premises, in Croatia but at the same time on the entire area of this part of Europe that we have in such close proximity 2 significant objects as the Templar City on the one hand and as Maškovića, so Turkish Han as we say down, on the other hand. And there is no doubt that in the restoration of the multicultural values of our historical, historical layers could be run as a very serious and highly valued candidate. Western or northwest is the Stojan Jankovic Tower, which certainly includes a whole series of historical periods in its layers. From... being a Roman Villa Rustika, and then after that it was probably a building that the Turks, or the Turkish conquerors of that time, were using in the Ravni kotar area as an important building and as a own house, until the fact that it later belonged to one of the most prominent sons of northern Dalmatia, and therefore to Stojan Jankovic, originating in Matijević and who later belonged to the Right-wing family. And in that sense, his restoration began. This former minister, and now our colleague Biskupić knows well because we participated in this business, but the scope of these renovations, the requirements necessary for this restoration far exceed the opportunities that we have at the moment because it is not only physical objects, the house, but it is a whole complex of properties which, unfortunately, is in this war, and then in earlier times it has been devastated. The last object I'm going to mention, I'm mentioning it because it's from a younger period. So, I mention the monument and memorial hospital of Partizanska on Peter's mountain. On the three-way municipality of Vojnic, Vrgin Bridge and Topusco. There is no more significant monument and more significant monumental complex that relies on older complexes of either Croatian or Roman history in this area that expresses and unites such an important component of anti-fascist tradition in Croatia as is this monument with a memorial hospital. His devastation which we are witnessing today, the removal of valuable and expensive monuments from procroms which, for some reason, the police fail or find no way or lack the will to stop, should be subject to our more serious interest, we should be subject to our more resolute reaction and we should turn it not only into a matter of interest of these three municipalities, so Vojnic, Vrgin Most and Topusko, but we should consider it as part of our regional and European treasure. Because this type of experience and this type of monument in Croatia is, in many ways, unique, but not only in Croatia but also in a wider European context. For this reason, this monument would also be profitable, and as far as we are concerned from the SDSS Club, we will surely advocate that it be in some future list of candidates who will join this agreement that we believe to show their justification for the restoration and arrangement of the Working House and the entire complex of the historical building of the architectural in the City of Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68594	Thank you very much. The next club is the HSS club and respected representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. The HSS MPs' club will support the adoption of this law, which confirms the International Agreement, which will enable the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia to use grants provided by the European Commission of a million euros for a concrete project of reconstruction of the workhouse in Vukovar. The total value of the renovation of the facility will be about a million 340 thousand euros, and the rest of the 340 thousand euros will be provided in the budget by the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. To date, the state has invested more than 3 billion kuna in the reconstruction of Vukovar, and the direct war damage in Vukovar is 10.4 billion kuna. Before the 1991 census, about 45 thousand people lived in Vukovar while there were half of them today. Of course you should believe in the future of the city and encourage people to come back. But surely it is not easy to recall the data of the headquarters of Sanitation who presented the data that thousands of civilians and about 600 defenders died in the war in Vukovar. 86 children were killed, 22,000 Vukovars were exiled, and more than 2,000 Vukovars were taken to Serb camps. 90% of Vukovar City was destroyed by its unrecognizableness. Vukovar is a symbol of Croatia's loss and symbol of the defence of the homeland, so we in the HSS club believe that additional efforts should be made to invest more strongly in the economy with all investment in reconstruction in order to create jobs and to ensure that young Vukovar and young Vukovars live in Vukovar. It'll be a real sign that Vukovar is the Unruly City. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68596	Thank you very much. It is next to the club of HNS and HSU, on behalf of the club the respected representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68597	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I agree with what the Secretary of State and colleagues said in front of certain clubs, but precisely because you pointed out that valuable cultural heritage of Vukovar and other parts of our beautiful, I would continue in something different tone and point to some indifference and some indifference in the Agreement that lies on our benches. What you may need to single out as a positive is the fact that the EU wants to help preserve and restore cultural heritage from these areas, a cultural heritage that is undoubtedly part of the European cultural heritage, and it is widely talked about by fellow Biskupić and there is not much to be added. Now we are going to the mechanism which the EU proposes to achieve. They will be bound to grant a million euros in this agreement. We will give 340 thousand euros on our part over two years and will no doubt do one part of the workhouse work, it is not disputed. But what I asked my colleagues at the HNS club, HSU, to let me tell you is something else entirely. If your colleagues and colleagues get into the details of the agreement, then you will see that page 12 says: "The contracts must be made within a maximum of two years of the final date of the contract." This is point 6.1. Point 7.1 "The payment of the funds shall be made no later than one year from the end of the date of execution of the contract". But there is a possibility that this deadline can be extended, so there is a possibility that after three years if we understand the execution of some of these works and the EU's obligations towards our cultural heritage. Three years. On the other hand, we will have a day on our benches and discuss the Youth Programme in action and... Lifelong Learning Programme where we will pay EU contributions to joint projects. Then it won't start for two years plus one, maybe more, then it starts one month, and then every day it squeezes interest. So one ministry negotiates this way, the other in a different way that is not equally valid and valuable and beneficial to us. It is not disputed that customs taxes, import duties and everything else here should be abolished, it is common when international organisations help one country in this case Croatia, even though this model might be applied when it comes to extremely valuable cultural and historical heritage that we ourselves behave in relation to projects to rebuilding and constructing these objects. What is further very interesting is visibility, transparency, page 15. point 13.1 of communication and information activities are determined with the Commission's approval. Very interesting. So controlled transparency, we have to ask the commission what we can do, which is not to be published in connection with the contract, the agreement, the works and everything else. Now, the most interesting part is the one relating to individual facilities in Southeast Europe that will be restored. This agreement is about financing cultural restoration and preservation of cultural heritage in the areas of conflict in the Western Balkans. I repeat, in areas of conflict in the Western Balkans. The facilities in Vukovar are being renovated, the Besac Fortress is being renovated at the border between Montenegro and Albania and the Senj mines are being restored somewhere between Bor and Kragujevac in eastern Serbia. My colleagues and colleagues, conflict areas. Areas of conflict. What were the proportions of suffering and conflict in the area of a, b and c conclude yourself. But it's even more interesting when you look at it, so we're wondering clearly what the priorities are for the European Union. A short time ago, counterpart Petir said, the town of Vukovar since before the war was 45,000 inhabitants, completely destroyed, and the Serbian town, which is probably the village of the Senj mine, has 600 inhabitants. My source told me so, 600 inhabitants. I don't mind, though. It's a great honor to all the colleagues on the Serbian mission that they've singled out, so good for you. But then what our negotiators did, our representatives in these negotiations, our mission. Because now look at how much they will get on page 31 of the Senje mines in Serbia, and how much Vukovar. The shadow mines will receive a total of one million and 500 thousand euros and the extent to which the European Union will participate, the extent of Serbia's ratio. The European Union pays 100% of the total. Of course, Vukovar, which is a hundred times the size of the settlement, gets a million euros and that is, on the condition that, by a third, we are clearly participating with 25.4%. My colleagues and colleagues, something's wrong. I have to say it. I think we must be correct, that we must also warn the European Union I hope tomorrow when we are full members that we will have the courage and strength to talk about it. I, when it comes to conflict areas, would not say anything that there are certain cities or objects in Bosnia, from Kosovo where the injuries were just as enormous as in Croatia. However, we only have them in this second component that is being prepared, where the evaluation is being carried out and with relatively small means. A little, very little. Therefore, neither the priorities, nor the extent of the suffering, nor any other parameter that would be valid in the conclusion of such an agreement, I must admit it does not satisfy me. Once again, we must not say a word at the expense of Serbia or Montenegro. Their missions, their representatives were obviously effective and effective in negotiating and imposing their projects clearly, their interests, but where they were then Croatian negotiators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68598	Thank you very much. And the last registered club is the HDSSB club. On behalf of the club, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68599	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In addition to these remarks that Mr. Doric very well noticed and analyzed himself, there is also something else that we would point out as an observation that is a bit of an eyelash. In fact, by slowly firing the idea of the Western Balkans into all spheres and here in this one signing, by confirming the agreement as it enters slowly, it instead of Yugoslavia, is becoming somewhat common in our use. Croatia is a free, independent, independent state and signs independent contracts. This is how one little carrot stands and defines the areas of conflict in the Western Balkans, as if it were not known that the war was as Mr Doric said in Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo. What does the definition of the Western Balkans serve? And in the end, it is really strange and just talks about ours I would say the negotiating synergy and the negotiating inability when, under completely different conditions, a project in Serbia that has not been in the field of conflict, at least not that area for which there is an intention to co-finance the European Commission, and it is irrevocably in full terms of it. At the same time, Croatia is participating with 340000 euros, a million European Union financing or co-financing of a joint working house in Vukovar, otherwise the birthplace of the KPJ, if you didn't know or didn't know any in 1919. Is Vukovar the Western Balkans or is Vukovar Croatia? Is Vrana the Western Balkans or is Vrana Croatia and it is southern Croatia. I fully agree with Mr. Pupovac when he listed all these cultural objects, out of the true sights for the Republic of Croatia and for the diversity clearly we have in the Republic of Croatia ethnic, religious, etc. where we actually build these and rebuild these objects and prove tolerance after this liberating and defensive Homeland War. There are objects that he has counted, other than the objects that he has counted, there are others. There are more in particular in conflict areas, conflicts at the border in border areas. Some of these objects are, for example, sorry he's not here, but he's certainly familiar with the Church of St. Marys in Zrin and with the fortress of Zrinski in Zrin. So the birthplace of a whole family of Zrinskis that many don't even know about. They think they're from Chakovec, Varazdin, where there's a castle of Zrinski. But Zrin, today in the municipality of Dvor actually came from what the Macedonians would say exactly the family of Zrinski. And that fortress that exists there is mostly something canned, is that right, Mr. Bishop? But the fortress of such importance for the Croatian people, for Croatian history indeed should be and should be restored. Clearly, the funds for these cultural needs are too small for the restoration of such significant and large fortification facilities. The recession is, Croatia has been brought into a situation of almost debt slavery, and then the funds for such significant facilities are few. The fortress of Ada is being restored, so Zrinski fortress near Croatia Kostanica, although it has not been resolved as far as I know to the end of the border dispute between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And we also have a border dispute with Serbia, and we'll talk about it later because it's not a topic today. So, Charengrad Ada and others to say the enclaves of cadastrian in Backo, and that's in the area of over 6,000 acres. The question is whether we will have a similar situation with Slovenia in half a year, a year. So, since Croatia is not a part of the Western Balkans, it is an independent and sovereign state that signs agreements with the European Commission. So, since Croatia, since it is about Vukovar, the city that is so in our heart, the city of hero, the city is a symbol of Croatian suffering and independence, the independence that we will finally see when we come to the centre of Vukovar, which I tell us is such a mutilated eye, that it will be restored. In any case, a man can't be against a proposal like this. But against such sloppyness and incompetence as demonstrated by a comparison of a similar contract with Serbia which is not, especially not in this area, either the area of conflict or in connection with the two projects, which is a cultural heritage within the framework of sustainable development in Besać. I don't know if it's read Albanian or Montenegrin, I don't know exactly. At the border of Montenegro and Albania where it is, after all, about Montenegro where there was no conflict. It is the same as when the European Union opened a tender for grants to demining countries that were at war, and then Belarus appeared, so the state of Southeast Europe, then Belarus appeared and it received funds. Croatia did not report to the competition. She wasn't at war, I don't know how it was, except she intervened at the time by the regional, development agency Slavonia and Baranja with her representativeship in Brussels, so she ran a demining project in the eastern part of Slavonia, so some of the funds were withdrawn. Unfortunately, our administration in Brussels has not seen or overlooked it. I also don't know if these are Western Balkan countries that speak similar languages, so whether those Western Balkans with us Croats and our negotiators could agree on the same or at least some similar conditions or there is no communication between them, but only one at a time with the European Union. And then clearly diplomacy, communication, information is obviously on the sidelines of others. That's why I'm saying it's not for not supporting everything that's for Vukovar. We are happy to accept it, but if Croatia is so negotiated, if Croatia negotiates and negotiates with the European Union, it will be "a more expensive pie than a tepsia" as the people say. Nevertheless, here is Croatia, will be singled out by Croatian citizens, taxpayers 340,000 euros gladly for our Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68600	Thank you very much. Now we're going to an individual debate. First of all, the respected representative Petar Mlinarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would also point out a little bit, read where it says about the proposal for a decision to launch a financing agreement on an experimental programme to preserve the restoration of cultural heritage in the Western Balkans conflict. Mr. Doric said he understood it very well and said it very well. I don't know what the conflicts were. That would be the same to say that there was a conflict between Germany and Poland when Poland occupied Germany Poland. As it says, I would say better by aggression in the Republic of Croatia, many sacral objects, hospitals, churches, museum, working house, homes, family houses, schools, kindergartens have been destroyed. If Europe had thought that way in the 1990s, we wouldn't be thinking about this million-euro gift for Vukovar, and it wouldn't, it would have saved about 15,000 people's lives. I think it's also that we don't have to slave these things to say that part is conflict. We must say aggression on the Republic of Croatia. With this I see already that our defender, Purda Tihomir, was accused, Serbia accused him of crime, and Purda was never in Serbia. During the war he was in the Republic of Croatia. Now that we've accused someone in America of shooting a soldier, and it's all telling me that we're just gonna have to go to, cancel the lawsuit to be who we are, and that's how it's gonna be, and I think that's how it goes. We must not be ashamed of our victims, why I was in Serbia for nine months at camp and Mitrovica, Nis, Alexine, I don't know why I was then. Then I wasn't in the camps, it was a conflict. Mr. Vice President, you're a witness to me when I speak. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has invested, and all the time the Ministry of Culture has invested here at the head of the former Minister of Culture Mr. Bishop they gave their pain to ours, no one remembered that this destroyed Vukovar and all of Croatia the government of the Republic of Croatia had taken care of it and how much it could have covered the front of the working home, covered the working home so that it would not continue to fail, save the museum and all of those facilities that had been destroyed. So here is the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement regarding part of the European Commission programme and for this project "Art Vukovar" heritage as a means of development, the restoration of architectural heritage in the centre of the city of Vukovar, the sustainable restoration and development of the war-torn community of Croatia. The total value of the project is 1m euros, of which the European Union provides 1m euros, while the Republic of Croatia has 340 thousand euros, at the position of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry, Water Economy, or the City of Vukovar Reconstruction and Development Fund. I must say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia founded another 2000. The Vukovar City Reconstruction Fund, where it helps the city of Vukovar with 40 million kuna, 20 go for reconstruction, and 20 go for the economy. And I think that's a lot of help, and we hope that it will remain that way by joining the European Union, if it can't be found we'll find another model, but in Vukovar there's still a lot of missing and rebuilding, the centre core of the city of Vukovar still hasn't been restored, we're still waiting, but the funds have also been approved for Vukedol, Vukovar, Vukedol, Ilock, and we hope that the government will continue with its capabilities. Whose co-financing costs during the next two financial years from the 2011 and 2012 fund amounted to 180 000 euros for each year. The project aims to restore the external appearance of the most representative national monument through the war of the affected city of Vukovar in the Republic of Croatia, which is a working home, the former Grand Hotel, contributing also to the preservation of the city centre in order to improve intercultural and interethnic dialogue within the community and the social and economic recovery process of Vukovar. The project provides for 4 activities, restoration, conservation, restoration and revitalisation of selected cultural and historical assets, in close cooperation with the conservation department of the Ministry of Culture, and the establishment of models for involving citizens in the decision-making process where all participants of different cultural and ethnic backgrounds will be included. Under the number 3rd promotion of cultural diversity of common heritage and activity, the dissemination of information where the intercultural heritage dialogue shared by the citizens of the Vukovar community will be improved, and the development of the capacity of human potential and economic development through the organisation of seminars and workshops and study trips. We are looking for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, so that the project of rebuilding the workhouse in Vukovar can begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68602	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68603	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Mlinarić, is there something not clear to you? So you're saying conflict, it doesn't even say armed, it says conflict, it doesn't know whether it's a conflict of opinion, conflict of interest, or what kind of conflict, let alone a war. So it doesn't say war. In addition to how to write war or aggression, aggression destroyed areas, if the County Court of Zagreb itself and the Supreme Court of Croatia speak of an armed conflict until 8 October '91. A year. So about the civil war, actually. But all it says here is conflict. Therefore, slowly but certainly, as I said, the thesis of civil war is on both the Western Balkans and the Jugorrhagia in the heads of our citizens, and it seems slowly to me that in the heads of some MPs, only a question on which side.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68604	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68605	... I am so old to remember now aggression on the Republic of Croatia,... [[Specially enabled.]] On my back and I saw what none of you here must have seen and experienced, and I think that part of what we suffered in the camps I never said or said here, but I think the treasure to the one who didn't just approach, whose foot didn't approach. [[You don't understand.]] The things we ate, the things we didn't tell you here, and we had to eat, we were yelling, it's not in there, it's not in there. After six months we were just sitting in a tram, I forget and ask my colleagues so I missed three stations, he tells me and it happens to me, but I can't tell you, but it's just the consequences of all those beatings and singles and barefoots in a cold cell and everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68606	Thank you very much. And it's a second replica of the respected representative of the Serbian Serb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A esteemed colleague, Mlinaric, spoke in his statement about how we have today the case of Vukovar defender Tihomir Purda, who is in custody in Zenica, and who, based on an international warrant, has been requested by the Republic of Serbia, and I ask in this regard how? What are the other state's authority on the events that took place on Croatian soil? I believe they are absolutely nothing, but I am also concerned about the way Croatia reacts to one such provocation from Serbia. I believe that such acts cannot be considered friendly in Croatia and that the Croatian government should show that it does not accept such a relationship, at least by means of a diplomatic note, do everything to make Tihomir Purda return, draw out all the agreements signed to help this man and call for the consultations of ambassadors from Belgrade to send a message to Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68608	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is not clear to me today either if Mr. Purda defended his home, his family, his city, his country, that some came from Serbia with beards and armed tanks and killed Purdy that day by his 10-15 neighbours and rebelled against him. So he had to say no to me because I'd be guilty if I killed you. Therefore, I also don't understand how Serbia can charge. Serbia didn't fight. How Serbia could have won these funds at all, these millions when it was neither in conflict nor in aggression against anyone. So they've simply been showing themselves for years the Croats have portrayed us as a people that we're criminals, that we don't know that, and we'd have to go back to the past and see how many crimes they've committed. And I think the Croats here were just completely defending their home, so was Purda, and the Republic of Serbia, it's so miserable that they filed a lawsuit against a Croatian soldier who defended Croatia. And besides, I'm not surprised because I'm on the list of the 330, I don't know, and on the list is my neighbor's Southerman, whose son they took next to him, he was 17 years old, found him in a tomb, and he died after 7, 8 years of grief. And he's on the list of criminals. Here's so much about Serbia and its honesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68610	Thank you very much. I have allowed this small-scale topic of debate because it is obvious that the topic is expanded by the very expansion of the political context in which this agreement is located. We can therefore proceed with an individual debate. Dear representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. And there's one saying: "The horses are not looked at by the horses." It's just here that the question is, is that right, is that saying worth it here? Mr. Doric opened a very interesting question, and I have to tell you this, and really, he changed my course of debate, actually. Because everything he said and we who may not have carefully read this Agreement between Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro and the European Commission see that the parameters are not actually uniform. We see that it's actually harder for me to conclude, not only to get into the eye but to talk about the ongoing injustice towards the Republic of Croatia, and I'm not sure that the problem as he said in our negotiators, I don't think it's a problem at all, but it's that it's still an attempt to relativise the guilt of the conflict, etc. That's because it's impossible for a programme of this Senjski Mine that they said the place had 600 inhabitants and one Vukovar who had 43,000 inhabitants to get us a $1 million grant, and that the Senj Mines would get back all million and a half euros. There's something else I don't want to speculate about right now, but it's getting in the eye and it's talking about the real injustice. Then the whole idea of this agreement at all is a test program. So, it's experimental and ultimately intended to serve as a visual specimen, so this experience from this test program, and it's about 3 projects, it's a working house in Vukovar, the second is... on the Albanian-Montenegro border and the third is this Mine in Serbia and after this is done it should serve as an example for the development of a permanent and wider approach to preserving and restoring cultural heritage in the areas of conflict in other geographical regions in the world. So, I think the idea is probably good basically is positive but unfair or milder said unbalanced funds. I would not, I repeat, say that there is a problem in our negotiators but the problem relative to perhaps the Croatian state, as the predecessors have already said. We also have to, this morning there was a talk, yesterday in the European Parliament in Strasbourg a report on Croatia was adopted and there we are in one point commended for regional cooperation on what we are working intensively on and we are commended about relations with our neighbours, which we are also working intensively through all these programmes and all this is fine. However, this information may still be Mr. Secretary of State, and for you, I understand that, I am going back to that gift horse not looking, but I think things could still get a little difficult on your part, because the contract is not a two-sided one, but it is three-sided plus the European Commission. The fact that Croatia was a victim of war, the fact that we never went to Serbia or Montenegro or BiH, the fact that the operations took place in the areas of Vukovar and Croatia and Dubrovnik as we all know, and the war was fought in Croatia, the war was fought in BiH, the war was fought in Kosovo. The war was not fought in Serbia. So I don't know how this is considered an area of conflict, but here's what I'm saying is that we need to accept, we need to support the process of building trust, and we need to support it through a program like this. However, you can see that this programme has fundamentally, let's say this when it comes to the Vukovar Working House, it basically has restoration and conservation, restoration and revitalisation of cultural historical heritage, but this is not the only goal, but it has obviously an educational character that needs to be shown as a good project, and these are the activities of establishing a model for involving citizens in the decision-making process. So, citizens need to get involved in the decision-making process. It then promotes cultural diversity, common heritage and information dissemination activities. So it's not just a physical job at the Labour House, which will be the goal of rebuilding it, but it's also something completely different that should ultimately result in an untested programme, but as a programme to be applied by the EU and other parts of the world. Anyway, I, like I said at first, will support this agreement. A million euros is not a little bit in these moments. In 2 to 3 years, we will pay these 340 thousand euros. We heard from the secretary of state that all the permits were built, location and remain complete. It also gives a very complex object and that it takes at least a few years for that object to be arranged. All together, however, there remains a small impression of bitterness because in a huge disagreement with what Mr. former Minister Biskupić spoke of 250 monumental objects in the area of Vukovar either destroyed or destroyed and saying more than 25 thousand museum objects that we are still looking for, then all this is in one big disagreement. But because of good relations with the neighbours, because of regional cooperation, because of the chapters of all the possibles that we still need to close, and because of the desire to become a member of the great European community, I support this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68612	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, first of all a respected representative of Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I also agree with the debate of my colleague, Shuice, and I would just like to rely on this debate in a way that I can express my surprise that let's say one such agreement by the EU because they are actually conditionalally said sponsors of this agreement is not, for example. BiH included. It is incomprehensible to discuss the area even if the conflict, even if it is called so, and to bypass BiH and include Serbia. So Serbia has been an aggressor to both Croatia and BiH and it is equally clear to us here, but also to those in the EU and the whole world. In the end, Serbia has suffered UN sanctions for this, but it is also quite unclear how this election was made and also how the selection of the sites that are the subject of the reconstruction was carried out. So, in our case it's perfectly acceptable and understandable that it can and should be Vukovar, but it could be in Dubrovnik in this case why not, or any other place that died in aggression by the Republic of Serbia and the Serb forces of the Yugoslav Army, etc. However, I'm particularly surprised that BiH has been left out here, which is actually the same and more injured than even Croatia has suffered when it is looked at together, a total agreement. Therefore, I agree that everything that is obtained should be taken, so I agree with that of your finding that a horse given should not be looked at in the teeth but should certainly be taken care not to be Trojan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68614	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68615	... you haven't read yet BiH is involved in a smaller project in this second component of evaluation where the heritage as a bridge... is the restoration of architectural heritage in the centre of the town of Stoca, the sustainable recovery and development of the war-affected community of BiH. So the chair is included with one small amount. But I don't have anything special to add to this debate except to believe that even this kind of debate, no matter what it is in the late hours, may contribute to the opportunity to conclude the following contracts, may lead to a little more bills. I would not be the EU here to make demands, but I think it might be possible to see in the course of the preparation of these contracts that this is being released in a way that is evenly and evenly because it knows who was the aggressor and who was the victim.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68616	Thank you very much. The second is a replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This debate by Mrs. Shuice, which has elements of the bass and started with a gift horse that is not actually seen in the teeth, says that the Croatian government and negotiators are taking a stand without a stand, without a guard. In fact, one vanity and a service to say to HRvat and the Croatian Government on all the conditions that we are offered to sign, to sign agreements, directives and everything else. That's why, and the moves that are constantly being drawn and every day we hear new moves that are being dragged, we've made up to 340 thousand unemployed, 100 thousand of those who work and don't get paid, so there's a lot of desperate moves, Croatia's getting deeper and deeper, and then I get another saying that says, "The mare that burns the most trigger and does great damage." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68618	Thank you very much. Now this has already been far beyond the subject of unemployment to mare. I think we went further than we should in this debate. But we do have a reply to the replica of the respected counsel of Shuice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68619	I was very well-intentioned here discussing and trying to elaborate as much as I could, and Mr Grubisic unfortunately in his style where he completely abused the replicas institute by mentioning now the Croatian government, the service, mentioning the number of unemployed and employees. Your intentions are not well-intentioned at all, you did not speak at all about Vukovar or the funds at this time, but you were just looking for a situation to defile the Croatian government as you normally do.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68620	The injury of the Businessman, the respected representative Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68621	Article 209 Mr. Vice President, I'd like to ask if it is possible for Mrs. Shuica to know my intentions, and she to discuss my intentions. It's not a replica or correction, it's talking about my intentions that are really how you just exhibited in your debate, at least I think it's rated as very, very well-meaning but here's the thing. That's what the Businessman's injury is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68622	Okay. Thank you. This was a replica and a response to the replica and the institute of replicas and enables and implies a wider assessment and political opinions and personal opinions much broader than if the correction of the incorrect assumption that must be limited to the facts presented. So I estimate that this was quite a business response to the replica. We've got another injury to the Businessman.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68623	I call for a breach of Rules of Procedure in Article 209. Be careful to say in this debate in which we are talking about the funds of EU donation to the Republic of Croatia to the City of Vukovar to compare the Republic of Croatia and the Government. I can't even do it again and I won't do it again because I don't want it to get into the phonogram that I said it. To talk about some animals that are guessing, I'm going to ease it this way. It's simply inappropriate, I think it deserves at least a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68624	Thank you very much. With the breach of the Rules of Procedure, we will not get far, because it is clear that the Rules of Procedure have not been hurt in the sense of the reply to the replica which the honourable representative had, and Article 214. The Rules of Procedure say that the speaker who reports for the breach of the Rules of Procedure is referring to another topic, so I ask that we do not continue to insist on injuries. We're going to the final participant of this debate individually. This is Honorable Representative Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68625	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Although I must agree with my previous colleagues and colleagues who have discussed this law, it is extremely bizarre that this agreement has not included both Bosnia and Herzegovina as the country that has suffered the most in this area. The European Union is probably washing part of its unclean conscience because it bombed Serbia at one point and through NATO, etc. I will still try to say something about the broader context of this law, especially since it is about the restoration of cultural heritage and about Vukovar. Cultural heritage undoubtedly represents an outstanding potential and value in the Republic of Croatia and for the cultivation of traditional cultural and historical values, as well as for putting cultural and historical traditional heritage into the function of a better life for all people in order to grow the economy, etc. It is known to the general public thatwolves whose domicile point was, therefore, Vukovar once ruled almost all of Central and Southeastern Europe, so at one point they actually controlled even historical Troy so that... two was essentially a werewolf culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Imagine respected colleagues and colleagues, what a potential this would be for Croatia if at least a few percent of tourists visiting Turkey and the locality of Troy would turn to Croatia to visit and a place where it all came from without false modesty, which we live in these places today, too. We have vast yet untapped potentials with the Danube and Sava, and archaeologists argue that if we continue at this rate to explore all these archaeological layers and our predecessors in these areas, it would take at least 100 to 200 years to fully investigate it. So there is potential for development, but this should be well thought out how to put in place a function of rebuilding and improving the economic situation. In order not to be so black and related to this agreement, it has been said and donated in some way to the Republic of Croatia, the initiatives and programmes already implemented in the Republic of Croatia by either the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Culture should also be mentioned. It is a restoration of traditional heritage and cultural heritage, provided that it is placed in the function of cultural historical tourism. Unfortunately, there are many bureaucratic obstacles because many buildings of traditional heritage, which is of course quite self-evident, do not have building or location permits, but are already where they are for centuries. And today we have a paradox that some local officials literally interpreting the construction law are looking for such impossible documents that it's miraculous, and it only takes a 10-minute drive to sit in the car and look at that kind of building or object physically and in nature exists. No, they require the performance of the existing state, the authorised architects, etc. So there are huge bureaucratic obstacles at lower levels that cost extremely good and designed programs and also soft loans provided by the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Culture and also grants for putting cultural heritage into office. On the other hand, the pre-accession European Union funds are also there, so let's say IPARD, the 302 project is also targeted in this direction. However, it has also proved that the European Union has little knowledge of the sensibilities of these parts and is looking for such impossible things that it is simply amazing. They are looking for three offers for some carpenter's work, and it is essentially known that in the restoration of traditional heritage it is best to take local masters who have their experience, skills and skills with specific problems, but unfortunately they have no craftsmen or formal evidence that they can apply or manage these works in terms of public procurement as requested by the European Union. And consequently, many of our traditional objects fail until funds are found to restore them. It is a public secret that foreigners buy invaluable many wooden houses that then turn into traditional furniture, instead of being restored to micro locations where they have been in place for decades or centuries. We're lucky enough to say that, at least according to the information I have and in which I was directly involved. It is good co-operation and Croatian police with the Ministry of Culture, with cultural heritage protection departments, and many misdemeanors still manage to prevent themselves from happening at the beginning or shortly after they happen. And let's get this over with. Despite such small gifts in terms of this law that we are currently discussing, we should publicly say that despite the difficult situation in which the state is located, there are still ways to help restore cultural heritage and from continuity beyond the early 1990s through the coalition government of the late Ivica Racan, and to this day these funds are continuously located on the disposition of investors and people of good faith and so should continue with the wing "Trust in" and while we are on animals and basses "Trust in and in your beaks". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68626	Thank you very much. Here, it's not over yet. We have two replicas. First of all, the respected representative Bozo Biskupić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68627	Thank you, Mr. President. In his debate, counterpart Franic said that projects like this should contribute to the development of the tourism economy. I would like to mention that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has really been very thoughtful a few years ago in that entire project Vukovar, Vucedol, Ilock, which plays a role in the development and economic and tourism whole of the region began to build a museum of werewolf culture, in fact the museum in Vucedol, as counterpart Franić also mentioned, once it covered from all over Central Europe and even a little further north to the south, to Greece. And the museum and its role in the beautiful Croatian language said Roh bau is over in a month. It'll probably be over this year. It has a role similar to that of the Krapina Museum to attract hundreds of thousands and more tourists and people. In Krapina, there have been 150 000 in this year and God has given it at least so much in Vukovar itself, that is, Vukedol, because the museum is very attractive. It is so built to attract people, and it is part of a programme run by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68628	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68629	And let's also mention the Castle Museum that you just initiated ended up with the coalition government again, and then later the HDZ gave that final piece. Such points glow with culture, radiate with cultural values and respected Mr. Bishop's life is changing in these areas so much for the better that it is actually very, very weak and rarely mentioned in the public and are actually being intensified on this cultural course of such additional values of everyday life, including the economy that it would be good for us here in the Parliament to think about ways to intensify exactly these initiatives and positive situations so that people can live better and live, more satisfying, but at a higher level of meeting their not only existential but also cultural needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68630	Thank you very much. The Republic also has a respected representative, Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, esteemed colleague Franic said we should rely on each other. I completely agree and I'd say we should believe in ourselves and in our own abilities, the ability to even arrange Vukovar, restore Vukovar completely. And the fact that this test program actually gives money to most of those who didn't die in the war, especially those who died in the war. The Bosnian who suffered the most in the war, the least money, Croatia a little bit more. For those who have not suffered the most with an unacceptable term in the Western Balkans, however, it may be something we should say and we in Croatia feel that we should say no to such models. Some others have their own unclean conscience about the kind of models they offer us. Then let them justify their actions. Because neither the Western Balkans nor the model have allocated the most funds to those who have not seen the war, they are not welcome for Croatia and acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68632	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Franic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68633	Yes, but the very fact that, let's see from a more positive side, that by the very fact that Croatia is in this pilot or test programme or project to Croatian experts, participants, experts will be able to acquire knowledge, skills, and thus transfer the management of reconciliation to other areas that are in conflict today, which will need similar international and European programmes tomorrow. So even though this is symbolic, we in the Assembly have made it very clear that it is really bizarre that the areas from Bosnia and Herzegovina have not been included, but that is why, again, it is a stain on the conscience of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68634	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate and we will vote on this final draft of the law when the conditions are met. Here we are at the very end of today's session, tomorrow at 9:30 we continue, the debate will be united for the next four points of the agenda, these are the confirmation of the agreement, i.e. the IPA funding agreement, by 9:30 tomorrow. Thank you all and good-bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-17-0.u68635	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Funding Agreement concerning an experimental programme for the conservation and restoration of cultural heritage in the areas of the Western Balkans conflict for 2009 between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 711. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Funding Agreement on an experimental programme for the conservation and restoration of cultural heritage in the areas of conflict in the Western Balkans for 2009 between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. The result? This bill was adopted by most votes, 106 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of the council and counsel, we will proceed with our work. Yesterday we announced, and now I'm asking if anyone would mind uniting the hearing for points 8, 9, 10 and 11. It's P.Z. Number 712, 713, 714 and 715. So we're going to unite the debate, I don't think there's any need to increase the time for discussion because everything can go on in 10 minutes what we have to say. So we save a little time here, so we move on to the point - Final proposal for a law to confirm the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on Croatia's cross-border cooperation programme – Serbia under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2009, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 712. - Final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the cross-border cooperation programme Croatia – Montenegro under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2009, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 713. - Final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the cross-border cooperation programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA cross-border cooperation component for 2009, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 714. - Final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the financing programme for Croatia's participation in transnational programmes of the European Territorial Cooperation of the European Regional Development Fund "South East Europe" and "Meditirane" under the component of cross-border cooperation of the 2009 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) instrument, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 715. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail, when setting the agenda, we accepted proposals from the proposing that these laws be discussed in accordance with Article 159 of the Emergency Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure, unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Environmental Protection. Did you receive the reports at the session, would the proposing's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Carlo Djuresic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
