ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74014	- Final draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 806 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, agriculture, fisheries and rural development. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Stjepan Mikolčić will further explain the proposal, please. Mr. Vinkovic, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74015	On behalf of the HDSSB Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes, and you cut it to 5, about the Agricultural Land Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74016	It can't be below 10, it has to be 10 minimum. Which is why you still need to state.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74017	A consultation within the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74018	A very good reason to be appreciated and accepted. Ten minutes off. We're continuing the session. Ladies and gentlemen, the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74020	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. The HDSSB Club requires that this law does not go by emergency procedure, i.e. that this law goes into second reading. The reasons are justified because there are a number of rural, family economies. Croatian Agricultural Chamber, Co-ordination of Agricultural Associations and I must normally mention the association "Brazda" from Đakova made a series of objections to this law. A series of objections to this law have also been made by civil society associations, and I also hope that it will not be a commercial as for "Dnevni Avaz". The Voice of Slavonia today states that although the Croatian government has made a unanimous decision and sent a proposal for this law by emergency procedure, that the Ministry of Administration and Justice, or Minister Davorin Mlakar, has made a request for this law to go to another reading. So, not to say that it is about certain conflicts within the government or conflicts within the coalition, given all these signs by the media, that it is about one of the fundamental laws and it is about the resource which is the foundation of the Croatian state, one of the foundations of the Croatian state and the indications that one of the most corrupt laws is proposed. We suggest we withdraw this law from emergency procedures and put it into another reading. That this law would be based on the foundations of power, and I hope that I will not get another warning now, because it was there today and for much more than a warning to exclude permanently from the Croatian Parliament. I would just like to ask if the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure met to dissipate us to Croatian MPs in the Croatian Assembly on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and whether this Law will also be one of the laws that will be inconclusive since the Constitution does not agree in the text of the Constitution with the opinion of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74021	Thank you very much. As regards the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, we accepted, when setting the agenda, the Croatian Parliament proposes that this legislative proposal be discussed in an urgent procedure. You are now proposing and explaining with an argument that it is necessary to change this House's view that the law does not go by emergency procedure, but rather in two readings. The Parliament has made a statement, I think unanimously that it has made a decision to follow an emergency procedure, and on this your proposal, the Parliament cannot now vote to amend this proposal, to change it to go by because there is no voting quorum to change, to go through an emergency procedure, and we will continue in this agenda and to discuss the urgent procedure. And you can finally put together when this bill is discussed then you can put forward a proposal as is often done in various situations similar to that of the Parliament to decide that the law is going on a regular basis. It's a procedure. Now we can't do anything else. With regard to this second part of the question today, at 13.00 a.m. on the agenda of the Constitution Committee, it is precisely the subject of a proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution regarding the adoption of the Law on the Rights of the Advocates as constitutional law in accordance with the procedure and manner for the adoption of the Constitutional Law, and that certain corrections are made in accordance with the opinion and position of the Constitutional Court regarding the establishment and publication of the consolidated texts of the Constitution. So we'll discuss it at 1:00. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74022	It's just a supplement. Thank you for this information. But given the fact that I am aware that the Parliament has made a decision to proceed with an emergency procedure. But there is again a proposer who can say that according to this proposal that this law, i.e. to accept that the law goes in two readings since, if you follow here a small state and among these associations of family economies, there is indeed a series of objections. Here I have to say, and we will probably inform you of this and the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture that the committee, therefore, voted 4:4 precisely for the proposal to go in two readings. Well, I'd like to ask the Proposer to withdraw this, on behalf of the Proposer, Secretary of State on behalf of the Proposer to withdraw the emergency procedure and that this law goes into two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74023	Okay. Right now, Secretary of State Stjepan Mikolčić will be made manifest in the reasons for the bill and your proposal that the law goes in two readings. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74024	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The current Agricultural Land Act was adopted in the Croatian Parliament in 2008 and has been applicable since 1 January 2009. In 2010, we had some minor changes and additions. The application of the law in practice has indeed shown that there are certain obstacles, and above all in the implementation of the particular part relating to the management of state agricultural land, which is made up of the largest part of the unit of local administration and self-government, municipalities and cities, i.e. the ministry in that segment of long-term lease, and municipalities and cities in the sale of land or lease. For certain provisions of this Act, the Constitutional Court and the procedure for the assessment of compliance with the Constitution and Articles 15, 16, 25, 1st, 2, 3rd, 4th and 5th shall be opened for Articles 81, 82, 83, 84 and 85. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has taken a decision at its meeting held on 30 March 2011, which repeals Articles 15 and 16, in Articles 25, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, i.e. Articles 81, 82, 83, 84 and 85. The proposed amendments and amendments to the provisions of Article 25 are subsequently in line with that decision of the Constitutional Court in the following way: for agricultural land which, on the date of entry into force of the proposed amendments and the addition of the laws, is located outside the boundaries of the construction area, which, after the change of the spatial plan, is covered by the limits of the construction area, is changed the amount of compensation for determining the change of purpose from 50 to 5%, i.e. 100 to 10% for the particularly valuable P1 land, i.e. valuable farm land in category P2 as well as the change of the use of agricultural land outside the boundaries of the construction area. As I said, the application of the law in practice has shown a number of obstacles that slow down the agricultural land management process. Out of a total of 550 thousand and 431 hectares of state agricultural land that are available by units of local administration and self-government of municipalities, cities and envisioned for certain types of management so far, contracts for 230 thousand and 581 hectares were concluded, which is 43%. In the structure it looks like this, so the land that was scheduled for sale was 223 thousand and 673 hectares. So far, contracts have been completed or sold, i.e. 56 thousand 243 hectares or 25%. The land that was planned for the lease was in the area of 131 thousand and 038 hectares. So far, lease contracts have been concluded in the area of 99 thousand and 020 hectares and only 70%, respectively. For the long-term lease, 132,000 and 614 hectares were scheduled, and so far has been paid in a long lease or former concession of 75 thousand 316 hectares or 57%. Another 63,000 and 116 hectares were intended for other purposes, where there are primarily certain spatial planning, reservations for infrastructure projects, primarily road and inland, i.e. return land. Therefore, these are one of the reasons for the changes and additions that we want to speed up, i.e. cancel these obstacles. Furthermore, the proposed changes and additions are more fully regulated by the information system in agricultural land, maintenance and protection of agricultural land, use of agricultural land, land use and land use, as well as compensation for the same. Then, the Agricultural Land Agency and the supervision of the implementation of the Agricultural Land Act. The proposed amendments and additions to the provisions of this law which regulate the ministry's competence in the availability of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia shall be transferred to the Agricultural Land Agency. The provisions relating to the content of the agricultural land distribution programme owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are brought by units of local self-government, are also amended in such a way as to rent common pastures and common pastures in protected areas designated for lease. This implies that it determines what is considered common pastures and that the Agricultural Land Agency shall lease them for a period of 20 years and that of the pasture community which must be organised as a cooperative. Pastures and meadows in protected areas are also leased for 20 years, but subject to conditions and protection measures on the proposal of a public institution which manages the area. Furthermore, the criteria of the sale of rights, i.e. purchases, leases, i.e. long-term leases and long-term leases for ponds are also changed. It has also changed the procedure for the availability of fish stocks and is available to those in place of the concession through a long-term lease. Because ponds are agricultural land in accordance with Article 3. The agricultural land law. For the mined agricultural land to be leased for a long time, changes are foreseen not to pay the rent for the first 40 years instead of the previous 10 if practically here is the tenant within 2 years demining. Practically here these 40 years the lease is equivalent to the demining costs of agricultural land items. The amendments have also been made to the provisions concerning the activities of the Agriculture Land Agency, which in practice has everything that has been in the ministry so far. The criminal provisions concerning the monitoring of the state of agricultural land owned by a country related to the conduct of an analysis of soil, i.e. that the agricultural land is not, that it does not reduce its natural fertility. In the transitional and final provisions, it has been established that the areas of agricultural land owned by the state which have been adopted by programmes until the entry into force of this law are provided for other purposes, I have also said about the return of certain urban projects, and are owned by legal persons. To be leased into long-term public tenders for 50 years, such as the deadline for a long-term lease. If they are owned by natural persons to be leased by a public tender for 20 years, that is, until the conditions for these other purposes are obtained, which is for a refund, i.e. to re-route the land to some kind of an infrastructure need. Automatism then means contractual clauses exist, contracts in question are terminated, these are at 50 and 20 years, respectively. Amendments and additions regulate the status of agricultural land that has grown up with several years of growth in such a way as not to consider the same agricultural land, and forest land owned by a country which, by its own use, is agricultural land will be separated from forest-economic plans under the Law on Forests and included in a programme of municipalities, or cities in which it is located. Furthermore, the proposed amendments and additions will significantly simplify the procedure for granting agricultural land in long-term leases and for ponds, especially for the use of common pastures, which contributes to removing administrative barriers and thus achieving the objectives set out in the Economic Recovery Programme of the Government of Croatia. Furthermore, we will speed up the procedures for the availability of agricultural land, allowing for the rapid completion of the entry of agricultural land into so-called land. our system of records in Arcod and practically Arcod and the land recorded in Arcod is the subject and possibility of reaching support, for now national and tomorrow support from the European Union. Furthermore, the proposed amendments are a prerequisite for better economic recovery, greater employment, more efficient and better positioning the remaining 260 thousand and 536 hectares of agricultural land and these 60 000 and something to return, which will allow for both the exercise of rights in the future and for support from the European Union. Despite the suggestions and suggestions made by representatives of Mr Vinkovic that this law goes into regular procedure, this law has passed a regular procedure in terms of proposing this draft, it has passed the complete government procedure in terms of submitting a draft proposal to the departments concerned and to all other interested bodies. He was agreed in the procedure and was proposed as such for the adoption and discussion of the Croatian Parliament. The government remains in place that the adoption of this Act is in an emergency procedure to prevent the negative consequences that would arise as a result of the inability to dispose more quickly of state agricultural land. One of the reasons for going into the regular procedure would be to extend the process and units of local administrations, municipalities and cities, and so they stopped the process of publishing competitions because we defined certain things here, that they would go by other criteria, I would say more responsibly fair, fairer criteria than that in this law, was one absurdity that the advantage in obtaining land had had economy holders who were younger than 40 years old, and then we had really events in the course of the competitions a man had under 40 when the tender procedure ended, he had 40 years and a few days, from that absurdity although perhaps he had previously enjoyed land for several years no longer been able. Here we felt that these certain obstacles and absurdities should be removed as soon as possible in order for this remaining state agricultural land to be placed in one accelerated process in terms of its management as provided for in the previous and current Law. Finally, there were amendments to the Legislative Committee, above all, nomotechnical nature, and we fully accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74025	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74026	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations of the distinguished Secretary of State. In fact, it is not true that this bill in some way respects the Constitutional Court's decision, on the contrary. This bill creates an even greater legal inequality and a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which I believe we will all talk more about during the debate. And the other thing, it is not exactly true that this bill of law draft went most normally in the procedure since it is also about the Law that has an impact on the environment, so it should be in accordance with the... Convention ratified by the Croatian Parliament and also about the Environmental Protection Act to be publicised for a month which was not the case. And in addition, the draft of this bill has been highly criticised by the Ministry of Administration, I have seen this memo and can say that the comments of the Ministry of Administration were totally in line with the remarks that the civil sector is now making on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74027	The committees. The Legislative Committee? Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Madam Chairman of the Committee, Ms. Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74028	Thank you, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development discussed it at the 44th session of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land and as a home working body. The debate was attended by the President of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and comments were submitted by representatives of the Green Action Association. The debate showed the chronology of the adoption of the Law on Agricultural Land since 91st when social land was state-owned, in 2001, when a new Law on State Agricultural Land was adopted, and the agricultural land policy was reduced to local decision-making, and the new Agricultural Land Act adopted in 2008 which attempted to put private agricultural land into agricultural production in an unconstitutional manner and thus secure social interest. The Constitutional Court repealed Articles 15 and 16, paragraphs 1 and 2 and 3 of Article 25 and Articles 81 to 85 of the applicable Law. The amendments to the Law do not show that the Constitutional Court has abolished certain provisions of the Law and that the provisions of the Constitutional Court should be incorporated into the Law. The repealed provisions should be redefined in such a way as to be constitutionally acceptable and to ensure that agricultural land which has been grown up by years of growth and to ensure that agricultural land is exploited in accordance with agritechnical measures, with the obligation to obtain consent of the owner, and the use of any stimulating measures which would ensure the position of the abandoned agricultural land. The problems have been highlighted that in livestock production many are unable to provide adequate number of hectares per throat. There has also been no solution to ensure that agricultural land is raised by agri-technical measures. The dissatisfaction of representatives of agricultural organisations is expressed because of the lack of discipline in the sale of agricultural land, as a result of rounding up, is a direct neighbour, and in the case of the sale of state agricultural land, this is not the case. Agricultural areas are limited and cannot be increased but are gradually reduced by human action. Once lost agricultural land will never return to agricultural production. Therefore, it should be possible to lose particularly valuable and valuable farmland by over-intention. This would contribute to the intervention of Article 8 of Article 24(1) of the deleted indent 5 relating to the construction of a golf course in a narrow sense. A positive example of the re-use and recovery of the devastated agricultural land has been presented, and this has served as a proposal to re-use agricultural land in the construction of a golf course should be in the jurisdiction of local units and regional self-government. The opinion is expressed that the state-owned agricultural land should not yet be sold since agricultural producers are not able to generate income from loans and would be able to participate in a level playing field with potential agricultural land buyers. It is estimated that there is no success in trying to change the structure of production or its increase, and this says that a different overall agricultural policy and the way it is available to agricultural land were needed. The debate also presents concrete remarks by the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, which are very extensive, so I will not only read them articles to which they have submitted their comments, in accordance with Article 14, Article 16, 19, 20, 25 and Article 35, as mentioned in the report itself. The proposal was put forward to hold a debate in the first reading on the draft in question, but the vote was divided by 4 votes in favour and 4 against such a proposal. Following the hearing, the Committee could not take a position in relation to the report in question in accordance with Article 47. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament since 4 votes were in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74029	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of HSS Mr. Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74030	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The basis of each agriculture is certainly agricultural land, and the foundation of each country should certainly be agriculture, and Croatia is one of the foundations of agriculture. What does agriculture mean for Croatia? This has been said countless times through the number of those who are indirectly or directly engaged in agriculture, those who, of course, produce food for us and countless times, have been reunited with green and blue highways with the goal of Croatia coming to the level that is needed and we want to come, which is that we can produce enough food for ourselves and for all those who come to Croatia whether as tourists or otherwise. With this desire, to get to that goal, it is quite certain that so far it has been tried on countless occasions and with certain amendments and additions to that law to get on that path, sometimes successful, sometimes less successful but quite certain that, throughout all these years, it has drawn a lot of money or huge money from the Croatian budget. Every year billions of kunas go to agriculture whether through support and incentives, whether through capital investments, all with the aim of strengthening agriculture itself to become competitive in Croatia, of course, out of Croatia. I therefore return to the very beginning that the basis of this agricultural development is agricultural land. The current practice and application of the applicable Agricultural Land Act have identified certain obstacles that slowed the process by making agricultural land available in the possession of the State and also sought to remove proposed changes in a way that significantly simplifys the availability procedure. It is particularly important that the proposed amendments and additions of the Agricultural Land Act are transferred to the Agricultural Land Agency in the possession of agricultural land, thereby simplifying the overall availability procedure. In addition, other activities of the Agency have been prescribed, which is the primary participation in agricultural land, the provision of long-term land leases owned by the State, the availability of fish stocks, the collection and analysis of data on the agricultural land market, trade in agricultural land, etc. The Agricultural Land Agency should establish an information system with two subsystems, one on the availability of agricultural land and the other on the maintenance and protection of agricultural land, thereby establishing a single record of the availability of agricultural land. What is also very important to note is the provision that also the units of local self-government that have adopted the programme of availability until the proposed amendments and the addition of the laws but did not have the responsibility to do so by 31.12.2011. During this period for units of local self-government which did not have agricultural land through some of the forms of availability, the Agency for Agricultural Land will take over, as well as revenues obtained from the availability of the same. The proposed amendments and additions have simplified and accelerated the availability process thus allowing for the completion of agricultural land in the archod system and the exercise of the right to direct payments to agricultural land users. Important news in the proposed amendments to the law is available to common pastures and common pastures in protected areas. The common pasture is a production and technology whole of agricultural land intended for the common pasture of livestock and poultry within or outside the protected area. A common pasture would be leased for 20 years to the pasture community whose establishment would be initiated by the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. The pasture community must be organised as a cooperative, consisting of natural and legal persons with residence or headquarters in the area of the unit of the regional self-government where the pasture is located either with a residence or a seat in the area of the neighbouring unit of local self-government. The interest of the pasture community shall be submitted to the Agricultural Land Agency which shall carry out the procedure and shall decide on the granting of the common pasture. The proposed amendments and additions to the law would place them in the position of a large area of agricultural land intended for the common pasture of livestock and poultry. In particular, reductions in the amount of payment of changes in purpose, a reduction in the amount of compensation for change of purpose will allow for the development of entrepreneurship and investment investments which have been the level of compensation for change of purpose prescribed by the provisions of the applicable Agricultural Land Act to date been a major obstacle. The minimum agricultural land will be leased in a long term way so that the tenant who demines the land is released from paying the rent for the first 40 years, instead of for the past 10 years. This would also be the function of a large area of mined agricultural land, as it has been shown in practice that demining costs are extremely high and that the release of non-payment of a ten-year lease is too short due to economic insolvency and was therefore not in the interest of taking such areas and renting. In addition to what I have stated, there are certain things that should be further considered as specific proposals, opinions, but I must also add that there is also a large number of what the association that the natural persons also participated in in the debate on this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Agricultural Land, and they wanted to make their contribution to making as good a contribution as possible and to better adoption of this law. What is also interesting for us at the HSS Club, and in particular we draw attention to the minister who, in particular, is that he came here and thus showed the seriousness of this topic, which is, in addition to Article 25 of Article 56 of point 1 in which we believe that behind the word processing should be added words based on a valid lease, concession or long-term lease contract. In fact, there is one ambiguity because it would certainly be normal for the advantage in the competition to be given to so far by legal users of agricultural land so as not to get into a situation where someone who may otherwise enters the area tomorrow is privileged to have an advantage in the assignment of that agricultural land. In addition to Article 25, point (a) of Article 56, which states: a number of permanent legal staff or a number of members of the family holding or crafts. A broad theme that certainly opens space. I'm going to say here for those of us who are in Slavonia that someone who has a few thousand employees compared to the one who has five employees, that's how they stand here in advantage. And the question arises what will one who has 5, 10, 20 employees and in what way can compete if I see that these criteria are already starting here in a subordinate position. Therefore, in this article, it is for the ministers to take another look at this article, to see through the criteria so that what I have to say, unfortunately, in the good part of Slavonia, we have, that those who are great are even bigger, those who are small are even smaller. This certainly does not contribute to those who live I will not say only in Slavonia, Slavonia is about large areas, so I say so, but surely in other parts of Croatia it is not good that I will not say on purpose but certainly through certain parts of these criteria that someone finds space and can use this space for himself. Therefore, the HSS Club also believes that there are good and most of this proposal is certainly good and should go into changes and additions to this law, but I also say once again that the ministry takes a look at the especially important criteria in the award of agricultural land tomorrow so that those who should not come into possession of this land come into that property. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club will, of course, say in addition to these proposals, additions, opinions support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74031	Thank you. The HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74032	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are, therefore, facing the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, a law adopted by this Assembly in 2008 and which has been implemented since 1 January 2009, with the note that we have already adopted one amendment and addition of this law in early 2010. At the beginning of this debate, I would like to say that at the beginning of this debate, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the amendments and additions of the Law on Agricultural Land, primarily for the reason we hold, without, of course, reducing the importance of other measures of agricultural policy, as the key to the development of Croatian agriculture lies right in the land policy, so what Mr. Kelic was saying on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. We of the HDZ Representatives Club also believe that land is the basis and basis for the development of Croatian agriculture. Therefore, without quality land policy and also consistent implementation of its measures in practice, it is neither realistic nor expected to see the desired level of development of Croatian agriculture, i.e. it is not realistic to expect the achievement of its basic objectives, which are on the one hand, towards increasing the basis for the development of agricultural production by putting into operation the previously unused agricultural land and, on the other hand, towards the formation of agricultural economies with a clear and long-term market perspective of their environmental process. Respecting the fact that the Republic of Croatia enters a group of countries that are relatively rich in agricultural land, I think we can all agree on this together, that with the current land policy and the state of agricultural land whose rational and efficient management, and that is to say, many factors are maintained. We cannot be and are not fully satisfied, taking into account the data on agricultural land and its use and availability. In Croatia, we have a total of around 2 million 695 thousand hectares of agricultural land, of which 67% is privately owned, while 33% is owned by the state. If we take data from the register of agricultural holdings, we come up with a devastating knowledge of the use of agricultural land for agricultural purposes, since just over a million hectares is covered by the register. On the other hand, the rules on agricultural land so far have been based on less than 10% of the total agricultural area or around 26% of the state agricultural land, i.e. for only 230 thousand 581 hectares, the end of the available and concluded lease, concession and long-term lease and sale procedures. It is precisely because of the aforementioned devastating situation in terms of the use and availability of agricultural land in relation to our common expectations, that the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club supports and will support all efforts by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent minister who are heading towards defining the legal framework that will make the necessary shift in land policy and create assumptions by achieving the already mentioned fundamental objectives of land policy. It is also necessary to say that, since the establishment of a central information system, the possibility of making available to private agricultural land, the possibility of a land not processed during the previous vegetative period, which has been hardwired until the establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency, is indeed a significant step forward in relation to the applicable law. Unfortunately, despite the very good intentions of the proposer and the overall law intensities, some of his provisions have been formulated in a way that is not accepted constitutionally, and so far the application of the Law in practice has shown in one part that there are still obstacles that slow the agricultural land supply process. Therefore, these are also the basic reasons why the amendments in question are proposed and the applicable agricultural land law is complemented. It is, of course, necessary to state above all how Articles 15 and 16, 25 paragraphs 1 to 5, and Articles 81, 82, 83, 84 and 85 are to be made. The Law on Agricultural Land initiated before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia a procedure for assessing their consent with the Constitution on the basis of which the Constitutional Court adopted a decision on 30 March 2011 with the exception of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 25, all other articles or certain articles thereof shall be abolished. It is, in fact, provisions relating to the possibility of renting private agricultural land on the assumption that it has not been processed during the previous vegetative period or has grown by several years of growth. Then, the provisions relating to the amount of compensation paid for the change in the purpose of agricultural land, which indeed had a disproportionate impact on other construction and development of other sectors of the economy, were disproportionately high, which simply led to a legitimate desire for the protection of agricultural land and the development of the agricultural sector having a negative impact on other construction and development of the other sectors of the economy, and finally on the provisions concerning the process of availability of private-owned agricultural land. Therefore, the provisions concerning the possibility of lending private agricultural land to the provisions of Articles 15 and 16 and the provisions relating to the process of making available to private agricultural land are no longer simply an integral part of this law by means of a decision of the Constitutional Court. However, the proposed amendments and additions to the laws of Article 25 are in line with the abovementioned decision of the Constitutional Court in such a way that, in the future for agricultural land located outside the construction area, which, after the change of the spatial plan, is covered by the construction area of compensation for change of purpose, will be paid for land outside the building area of 5 and 10%, respectively, as opposed to the current 50 and 100% respectively. And that should be emphasized by the market price of that land. Of course, the amount of compensation will depend on the quality of the land itself, i.e. whether it is of particular value to farmland or other agricultural land. It is necessary to stop here and remember that when the 2008 law was passed, there were in fact very many objections to the large, i.e. the amount of compensation prescribed by 50 and 100% for the re-use of agricultural land. That's why today's associations who object to this level of re-use I don't think they're quite right, and we should also remember that until then, the applicable law prescribed the amount of agricultural land re-use fee of 5% of the value of agricultural land. Furthermore, it is also necessary to say that the current Agricultural Land Act did not cover any issues related to the availability of agricultural land at all, and for this reason it was necessary to address the changes and additions in question, which are also set out already existing solutions in the law significantly more precisely and more fully or simply significantly better. In particular, the amendments to the provisions of the laws laying down the procedures, i.e. the criteria for determining the right of the championship in tender for the lease, sale and long-term lease of agricultural land owned by the State, which are qualitatively complemented and detailed, should certainly contribute to the faster, easier, more objective and fair choice of the most favourable bidder. We consider, in particular, an important improvement in the fact that the criteria for establishing the most favourable bidder have been taken into account by true farmers, so those whose agriculture is indeed a fundamental interest. We also welcome the amendments to the laws relating to the important simplification of the agricultural land lending procedure in the long-term lease for ponds, which are also prescribed that a single contract will address both land and water use issues, which is an uncontestable improvement compared to the existing legal solutions. Furthermore, the procedures for the disposal of agricultural land held by the State which has so far been in the power of the ministry shall be placed in the jurisdiction of the Agricultural Land Agency, all in order to simplify and speed up the state agricultural land supply process, which we also hold a good solution. Finally, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act provides for certain solutions. I have already mentioned them that have never existed in any form before, and they refer to common pastures and common pastures in protected areas that the Agricultural Land Agency will be able to lease to 20 years of pasture communities that must be organised as cooperatives. Then, the state agricultural land available to the programmes is intended for other purposes and return, and is owned by legal or natural persons. Therefore, this land will be able to be leased for a long term lease, i.e. a lease, based on a public tender. And finally, the status of agricultural land that has grown over many years of growing and forest land owned by a state that is, by its useful property, agricultural land. It should be pointed out here that these provisions, hence the provisions on the status of farmed agricultural land, and forest land, which, by its useful property, are creating assumptions of increasing the area of agricultural land by extracting the same from forest-economic plans, which will certainly contribute to the fixation of the situation on the ground and to eliminating the illogical nature that concerns the fact that it is still, that mainly pastures are still significant areas of agricultural land, practically out of agricultural function. Of course, similar events will occur with areas of agricultural land that have been abandoned and have been grown by years of growth due to multi-annual non-treatment, and therefore, by definition of the Forests Act, they represent the forest. But of course in this case in the opposite direction. Finally, while respecting all the previously said but also our belief that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law we are taking at least one more step forward towards the final achievement of the basic objectives of the land policy, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74033	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74034	Unfortunately, this isn't from a student market in the family economies, but I'll do it eventually. So, I repeat, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, how are you? We haven't heard from each other in a while. Is this ergella going into separation or not going? So, I repeat the request of the HDSSB Club that this law goes into second reading since it has a series of objections to this law. I'm just going to read some media signs like this. A broad coalition of civil society organisations believes that changes encourage land speculation, corruption and a non-refundable reduction of Croatian agricultural areas, work for state agricultural land, hectare in Croatia 10 times cheaper than in Europe, manipulation of agricultural land, etc., etc. These inscriptions include the largest family economies, the coordination of peasant associations, and since here is the vice-president of the government, i.e. the Minister of Agriculture, I believe at the moment that he is in charge of the Prime Minister and that he is here to defend this law before the Croatian Parliament so that he can make a decision on behalf of the promoter that this law goes to a second reading. And I believe that, given that certain media are also calling this law an entrepreneur from one political party that is in the coalition, that I am not making a commercial, I am not going to say that name, since it could be understood as an ad, but here I call on the minister to respond because it is obviously another blackmail of political partners because this law really does not bring good to those to whom it should be brought, and these are those who are engaged in agricultural production. In the HDSSB, I believe that there are several reasons for that second reading. Among the most significant is that this law should in any case not be called the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on Agricultural Land but on the re-use of agricultural land. And here, in the same way, the Golf Act was defended, and so did these changes, and I hear that the Golf Act will be very soon withdrawn from the procedure. And this law allows, apart from the reduction of agricultural land, one and I dare say corruption that is related to only agricultural land. The number of hectares is 550,000 hectares, and only in the area of Osijek-Baranja County is around 24% of those areas, and only Osijek-Baranja County is one of the largest producers of agricultural areas, although it is not visible in Osijek-Baranja County and not in all Slavonia according to the standard of citizens living in Slavonia and Baranja. Since gross national income is right in Slavonia that fed not only Croatia but also that former Croatian people's prison of '45. By the '90s, just in the worst condition today in Croatia. Since a number of competitions are under way in the units of local self-government, I will remind the minister that he has been standing for 4 months now, that he has been in the ministry for 2 years and that he and I both know very well that this is a whole politicisation of the issue. As a result, the HDSSB proposal also goes that if the ministry does not, within 30 days of the date on which the application is submitted, it will consider that the date has been agreed. In this way, a political decision would be avoided in the ministry, a political decision based on which policy option, not based on objections, given that the proposal was that everything that is clean and which has no objections goes into further procedure so that the State's Attorney's Office could hire. But here's the thing, regardless of certain promises, it didn't happen. The reasons for, among other things, a large number and too long process of privatisation are certain and every time the criteria change with any amendments to the law, i.e. some criteria become more important than others. For example, certain restrictions are not defined so that there are cases that one family holding in the same address, namely that one family holding is divided into 6.7 and even 10 family economies. Moreover, the big problem is precisely because of all these political decisions is not to resolve the status of the family agricultural holdings that they have been working on, for some 10 years, agricultural land based on certificates, or one-year contracts, so that at the end of the decision they were not entitled to and were neither a tenant nor a owner. There is still no adequate control of land use that was leased several years ago or some other form of availability by inspection services still, the famous ARCOD did not revive because I still, responsibly claim, a large minority, and here above all I think of similar individuals, raise incentives, and do not process agricultural land. One of these proposals is, therefore, that the proposed law is proposed first of all, and the law should be called the Law on the Reuse of Agricultural Land, and we fear that a similar law will be in the function of corruption, i.e. not agriculture, but the construction of certain things that have nothing to do with agriculture itself. Since the proposed law proposes the first purchase of the Agricultural Land Agency purchased in competitions, we believe that this is not good because the land control is not done by anyone and it is very well known to be mixed with state agricultural land. In the light of the comments made regarding the very provisions of the articles of the law, we will make amendments. I will only determine one of the colleagues from HSS Kelić also spoke about for a number of permanent legal staff or a number of members of the family economy or crafts that no employee profile has been established. It can therefore be a clean administration not production. And this provision will certainly be the subject of speculation in the execution of the tender for long-term leases and will enable companies that are registered for all and all things, and not give priority to those involved in family production, or family farming. On certain technical matters relating to the law itself, the committees have said about where the point or point stands, but I believe that the provision relating to the units of local self-government that have adopted the programme until the entry into force of this Act did not have the agricultural land owned by the State under the provisions of the Agricultural Land Act that it cannot dispose of the Agency but that time limit may be extended and the resources may be extended if this Parliament decides to go through the Agency cannot be in 100% the amount of funds going into the state budget but must be shared according to those criteria that have been shared so far. This provision of the Law, other than the units of local self-government, will leave the county without part of the rent and sale revenue of agricultural land, thus also making it impossible to invest local self-government in agriculture itself. There is a question in any case of legalisation of existing facilities, and I think that there should be a need to make sure that it does not happen again, that there should be both spatial plans and general urban plans but also plans to regulate units of local self-government or regional self-government, so that they can be taken over by the favourable experiences that Slovenia, Italy, Greece, have indeed had major problems as Croatia has today with legalization of agricultural facilities. Here are these efforts by the HDSSB to join a series of family economies, as well as the coordination of peasant associations, and I believe that this law should go to another reading. There have been a series of amendments to this Law, a series of laws that have ruled that bring new improvements in agricultural production, new blooms in agricultural production, new jobs, but in any case this has not happened or has not happened at the rate that it should have been, so today we still have higher imports of agricultural products. So, the total import was 2 million 246 thousand tonnes in 2010, and in millions of US dollars 2 million, or 2 thousand 168 million dollars, I apologize, because that 2 million then probably wouldn't even carry this basket even though it's 2 million too much, or that we have a green sea along our blue Adriatic, Mr. Minister, it's only surprising to me that we don't import Silvac and Grasvina, unbound personally for you. And what I'm about to say is that these are abnormal amounts of money that Croatia is giving on imports. In total, only $1355 million was exported. Which means that almost 100% of the imports are higher than the exports of agricultural products. So just for example, this is a basket like this maybe that women or men who are emancipated cook, this carrot is not from Slavonia or Dalmatia, it's from Austria and it's not like that. The other carrot is from Italy, it's also nothing, and it's in our stores. This apple for which our producers, when produced by various different buyers, get everything kuna and a half and goes towards an industrial apple, today at a store of half a kilo costs 8 and 99, and on action, rots none. Tomato produced in Macedonia, I wonder what's wrong with Croatian tomatoes and I wonder what about all those producers who make that tomato, the potatoes are from Egypt, obviously Slavonia or Lika can't make potatoes. I think Dalmatia has enough room to produce figs this one's from Turkey. The tops of Germany, this is for children or those who want to lose weight. The port of Hungary, parsley, look at the ministers as it is, certainly not Croatian or Slavonic, is also imported and what concerns most, I could bring it here we import corn, import and wheat, and soy, but what worries most about importing dry leaves and branches and that this is exactly these $2 billion or 2,000 and some million more of this which is most interesting and I must admit that I did not find this time, and that was the last time I brought it was a Dalmatian fig produced by the Republic of Serbia, and this is a dry plum with a bone maybe someone has some problems with the digestion, it is a dry plum also produced in Serbia. So, that's enough talking about the state, you can talk about what you want, it speaks enough about the state of Croatia agriculture and these are arguments that say that this situation is not good. I don't want to accuse the minister, but obviously this law has to go to another reading because this is the law that marks this most important, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74035	A colleague, though very interesting, but the time has run out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74036	Here I go. The most important thing Croatia has, it is just agricultural land, along the water, along the Adriatic, along the rivers, mountains, and with the people of Croatia and Croatian citizens, so I ask you to allow a broader discussion of this law so that this really does not become a law similar and destroy those who are really engaged in agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74037	... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74038	If you want to stay healthy, I would recommend you not to eat this, but to use Croatian products.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74039	That's a good wish. Now the minister, when it's his turn, I guess he'll refer to it. One correction to the incorrect quote, Ms. Representative Nedelja Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's Mr. Vinkovic incorrectly claims that there are no adequate ones yet and there is no adequate land use control. This is incorrect, Mr. Vinkovic precisely because in 2010, an Arcod system was established and its function was the identification of all land parcels. It also represents a database of spatial data of all agricultural areas and serves to monitor and control the use of surface-related support. The Arcod system also represents a graphic record of land agricultural and farmland.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74041	Thank you very much. Mr. Petar Cobankovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74042	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies MPs respected gentlemen MPs, distinguished MPs. Let me give a few clarifications to your debate, because unfortunately all the facts you've brought out, I don't think they're exactly the way you presented them. I want to stress here that the intensity of the amendment and the addition of the Law on Agricultural Land is to create assumptions for the faster availability of agricultural land. You're here to make certain I'd say grudges to the law, so one of the objections is to transfer the right to the agency to those units of local self-government that have brought in the programme of availability and have not conducted the competition with them. And unfortunately, you remember that in some previous periods we even introduced certain criminal measures or transfer to the county but unfortunately did not revive it. If such a way of making available, it'll be almost 10 years now, so if I'm not mistaken, I think that in 2002 a basic Agricultural Land Act has been passed over to the authorities of local self-government units, and until today has not resolved the issue of availability, then I think it must be in some way sanctioned and sanctioned because we can't tolerate an end to it because it shows that this unit of local self-government unfortunately doesn't want to dispose of agricultural land. On the other hand, you have often used the word that this is a law on the reuse of agricultural land. Yes, it is this law regulates re-use and moves towards change in order to reduce the amount for re-use, for the simple reason we hold that Croatia should also provide room for the development of the economy, that for certain economic projects which are of interest both for a particular local area, so it is also big projects which are of interest and for the development of the economy of the state. And, of course, dear friend, if Croatia retains such strict criteria in all segments from re-use to all others then unfortunately Croatia will still be in the places where it is now when the competitiveness of the Croatian economy is calculated. If we are looking for obstacles in everything to prevent investment, then unfortunately our competitiveness compared to some other countries that often serve us and, for example, when we say that there is a much faster solution to the outcome of the documentation to the preparation of complete projects and the necessary documentation and implementation of projects. So we must lead the river by respecting the needs of agriculture, respecting the need not to reduce agricultural areas, but still some favourable relationship between agriculture and the need to develop certain economic projects. But you're also saying it's a source of possible corruption. Now, it surprises me terribly for the head and mayor of one of the local self-government units to say it could be a source of corruption. That means that those who initiate the procedure of changing spatial plans, which is the units of local self-government, means that practically, and you're practically not trusting yourself and that you think that if it's the source of corruption, then it goes from down to up, you know. And of course, in addition to any proposal to amend the spatial planning documentation that the authorities of the state administration who are competent to monitor and give their observations or give or deny opinions. On the other hand, here I have to specifically tell you the part that isn't exactly the subject of this law, but you've had a lot of room in the debate and taken on and to conduct the tender that was on the premises of your unit of local self-government. You delivered the paperwork to the Ministry on 15.03. The ministry has requested further clarifications on the basis of which it can determine whether you respected the priority lines in accordance with the applicable law, these additional arguments and additional documentation were submitted to the Ministry in 15.04 and to a tender that you conducted or to a decision on the selection of the most favourable bidders 80 statements or 80 complaints. And now we need to determine exactly after the additional documentation because we couldn't determine before because we didn't have enough documentation to determine whether it was done by law or not, now after 15.04. when we got the additional documentation we were intensively doing in the ministry to determine whether they were respected orders of priority, whether they were respected legality and whether we would be able to give on that basis, but all of this once again, all of what was done in accordance with the law, you will surely, as well as all other units of local self-government, get a positive opinion or consent for all that which is not set out under the law, unfortunately, be denied consent. I've got to look around, you've made a big deal out here, you've used this debate here, and I don't mind, but we need to discuss agriculture, but we need to discuss the same with the arguments, and you've put out a little bit of the information on foreign trade. A little honest with you, those numbers weren't really sitting, you made some weird numbers. I don't know, 1350 million that we have to do a little bit of recalculating now and turn into a billion and so on, but, well, we get along. Here I will answer you in the shortest lines. I'm about to say, round the circle that Croatia imported goods, agricultural and food products worth 2 billion and 200 million, that it exported by a billion and 400 million dollars, that the direct deficit is $800 million. But to earn income from tourism somewhere more than 7 billion round again, we are talking about full figures, that out of those 7 billion total revenues from tourism, the minimum by the most conservative methods calculate 15% of waste on food and drink, and when out of those 7 billion euros, it's 15%, which is 1 billion euros, and when we turn that billion euros into dollars, it's somewhere, roughly again, billions and 300 million dollars. And when we reject this direct deficit out of that billion and 300 million, and the consumption in tourism is the best form of exports, and we all agree, it is exports without crossing the border, then we come to Croatia's agriculture and food industry achieving a surplus of $500 million. And that's true, these are indicators that show the competitiveness of Croatian agriculture which has significantly improved, of course, thanks to all the measures of agrarian policy, thanks to the incentives, thanks to the harmonisation of our legislative framework with the common agricultural policy. And finally, I have to say that this has resulted in the closure of chapters, chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development, which means Croatia has fully aligned with the common agricultural policy, that chapter 12 is closed. The safety of food and veterinary and phytosanitary protection, and if you can track it, these days we expect it to be closed and chapter 13, which means that in all three of these chapters we have met the criteria, that we have established a system, that we have established institutions and we have created assumptions that we can lead and implement a common agricultural policy. Now let me tell you, Arcod, one of the segments of IACS, so-called. an integrated administrative and control system, one of the tools completed for the current situation in the 3rd month. But Arcod will never be finished, Arcod is part of a dynamic process, and whenever there are any changes, it will still be changing. So, setting up all of these I'd say tools, all of these instruments come down and virtually disables any more manifesto related to the payouts of incentives and support. And here, thank you very much. I believe that your debate is well-intentioned, that you want to help Croatian agriculture and as head of the unit of local self-government you have the opportunity to do much at your local level to repair the situation in agriculture, and even some would say help farmers where the state has significantly stood behind agricultural producers in our area. And I don't think it would be bad for a little bit of the city to help, and a little bit of the county to give a share of its contribution to those people who, at some point, lost some of their products to help them out a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74043	Thank you very much, Vice President. We now have several corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74044	And I thought you'd be discussing amendments to the Agricultural Land Act, but this is a few corrections. I hope the President of the Parliament will make it possible for me because you've had your whole debate and the defense of the law debate with me. So here you said it was local self-government units that didn't want to implement the Agricultural Land Act. You had this secretary of state who kept his decisions for two years because someone wasn't from a certain political option, but not to come back. On the other hand, I believe that in some things such as land of particular interest for the city, and I was talking about the price of re-use of agricultural land for those who want to build, and it will not certainly build in Slavonia which at this point is unspective, which at this point has no certain potential because it draws those roots back from the '90s, but it will work on the Adriatic, etc., etc. It's just that there's a fear of not using that blending. As for Djakov and Djakovština, Vinkovic was not in... No, no, I'm correcting you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74045	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74046	Vinkovic was not on the Djakovština Supervisory Board but were two members appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and who made those decisions. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is also responsible for those 400 workers, for their severances, as well as for the peasants.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74047	Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74048	And I know you're having this conversation today, so I'm not going to burden the debate with that...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74049	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74050	And I'd like to ask the MPs who have no idea how to refrain from commenting like this from the scene. Thank you. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74051	Not only was the debate out of order, but it went on for that much longer. Do not abuse...... Please don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If it's past time for correction then it's past time for correction. ... It wasn't a correction. It was a debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And then it falls into replicas or something, not that. ... I'm not gonna give you any yellow card. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what you'd like because that's what you enjoy when you get a warning. It's like you've got a captain's or a major's rank. That's what it looks like. So, me, you're not gonna get me on easy notice. I'll even give them then, despite the fact that there's no effect on them if I have to. ... No, no. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I do what I want in my spare time. Now, we have a second correction to the incorrect assumption, so please be within that institute. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74052	Well, the minister touched tourism, and then it would be good and convenient when it comes to the Deputy Prime Minister to enable tourism to be given the export status. I absolutely agree that any law should encourage investment. We had a 50 billion investment in construction two years ago. Now we have about 30 billion. This decline in construction has led to the loss of about 50,000 jobs in the dam in two years, and the state has lost about 5 billion kuna to VAT, contributions, etc. So, you need to boost investment by any law. However, what is the problem with this law? Where individuals relatively cheap, come cheaply to the state and then it's expensive to resell and now the state is still or based on the plans of local self-government, it means based on these plans, the state reduces their fees. It's not my fault for an investor to cut him down. But this hoarder, who later resells it, should, in some ways, be charged with tax policy under quotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74053	We have further correction Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74054	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you can see that you are doing much better, that your zeros are going well and that you are going millions and billions better than my colleague Vinkovic. But you were talking about the consumption of agricultural products in tourism. And then you counted 15% of seven and a half billion how much tourism gets that item on food and drink. But these are not Croatian products, Mr. Minister, so this is not Croatian agriculture. How much, have you any indication of how much Croatian food and drinks are on tourist tables on the Adriatic coast? You don't. In addition, you won't say that the imports of food that you mentioned were 2 billion and 300 million kuna, which has 300 million dollars that you, as a state, the government, collect customs duties, excise duties and VAT 5 billion kuna, and for incentives goes 2.2 billion kuna. Keep your mouth shut about that. You won't say anything about that. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74055	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74056	Dear President, Mr Grubisic injured Articles 209 and 214. Rules of Procedure. In fact, I find it very offensive. I do very well with numbers. I said that's 2 thousand 168 million, and whoever doesn't know that 2 thousand 168 needs to add three zeros to make it two billion hundred and sixty-eight and not two and two hundred that's another thing. And by the way, exports are three hundred fifty-five thousand. So these are data from the Croatian Economic Agency. Now we ask the Minister of Tourism where he put those million ojres and he'd say somewhere else, not in agriculture or seven.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74057	Like this. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's a correction of the digits, a number of corrections. But he can have one opinion, you can have the other. But that didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Please, we have another violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74058	Thank you, Mr. President. I raised an earlier correction to my colleague Vinkovic's incorrect allegations because he didn't. He injured Article 209 because he did not correct any incorrect allegations in his correction. And further, he insulted us some here MPs because he said since we had to unfortunately with him, warn him to shorten his, of course his statement etc. But he said we have no idea about agriculture. My colleague Vinkovic and I have a pretty good idea about agriculture. And I want to tell you that agriculture isn't just warfare. You're throwing yourself around with those acres. Agriculture and livestock, of course. I come from the middle where this kind of agriculture is, and that's why I said I'd organize you a course from advanced agriculture in my midst, to come, to learn what agriculture is and how it's done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74059	It wouldn't be a bad idea to clear up the concepts of agriculture outside the assembly without wasting our time here explaining it. So, I'm gently warning you and I'm going to go on so that you don't use these, all of you, all of you. There's no difference. It doesn't make any difference. Mr. Zlatko Koračević, with great hope, will correct that he will be in the frame of correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74060	... Mr. President, because I'm giving up corrections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After this circus, which started after commenting and fellow Milinkovic, I don't think it makes any sense for the Croatian public to extend this theatre. And it's finally time to catch up with the agenda points and the obligations we've taken and return the seriousness to this assembly. I'm giving up fixing the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74061	Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic, do you have another need? Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74062	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 209 has been injured. It's not about any circus, it's about a very important segment of life, which is agriculture. And if I'm advocating that farming as a special and important branch, it's not a circus. This is the seriousness of accessing agriculture, and in this sense we see this as an insult to me as representing livestock as part of a very important agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74063	The breach of the Rules of Procedure does not include qualified or not qualified to be a circus or not a circus. So that doesn't fall under the Rules of Procedure. It's more of a courtesy, I'd say. Is it? But actually looking strictly isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if there's a framework of tolerance to be passed especially around personal insults then let me remind you of that a little bit, right? Okay, we have a further correction to the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74064	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. So I think and correct your assumption that the debalance of exports and imports of food is covered by food placement in the tourist season. First, I believe and it is certain that much of the food used in the tourist season is from that import part, from that import quota. The second thing, everything that is not planned in production, especially livestock, is not possible to have at the end of the tourist season. Because it takes six months to produce a pig, for a hero over a year, etc. Therefore, if there are no previous contracts with manufacturers in Slavonia or anywhere in Croatia, then there can be insufficient amounts of these needs. And what are those needs? Needs are in the front row, say steak, etc. You, yesterday I heard 100 kilos of steak for a hotel in Hvar can't be found in Slavonia, and that's 50 heroes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74065	And another correction, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go. He's gone, he's lost track of the look. ... Okay, thank him for not being here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The vice-president of the government and the minister again, but Mr. Vice President then would have made a mistake, I would have made a mistake because in the meantime no one spoke except they were corrections. Well, you wait for the next speaker, and then you might have to answer to him as well. Thank you very much. It's the Club of HNS-HSU Representatives, Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74066	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice Prime Minister with an associate. Here, thanks to my business opportunity, I will have the opportunity to answer some of the questions that we at the HNS-HSU club definitely have on this bill after my debate. It is not at all a questionable need and value and quality and potential which this legislative proposal regulates and creates in a given area, and in the context of healing or creating healthier and more successful conditions in the agricultural economy. Let's have what we have today regardless of mathematics and regardless of how we calculate these mathematics, but the fact is and it's saying enough to pass through to ours in all parts of Beautiful ours and see the processing of agricultural areas, and enough is to look at the demographics and the whole series of other things, without saying import and quality imports and all of this. Therefore, things in agricultural production are not good, things in agricultural production smell, things in agricultural production should be changed and in agricultural production in total, when I speak in total agricultural production should be changed in context and in synergy with others... Because agricultural production isn't an island and we can't just look at it for ourselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, when I talk about amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, the fact is that in almost 2 years, this is the third debate in the Croatian Parliament, the fact is that when we adopted the Law on Agricultural Land, we made our position very clear even by leaving the Assembly. However, thanks to the parliamentary majority, what we warned about happened, and this went to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has just confirmed our arguments that, when voting, colleagues and colleagues from the ruling, you did not accept, you did not act. The Constitutional Court confirmed this and following the decision of the Constitutional Court we also received today a new text or amended or amended text of the proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land for which we also think in the club HNS-HSU, and in this sense we have also made a request to discuss this proposal of the law on the basis of the debate conducted today, and almost all clubs have certain objections or objections to certain legal solutions that this legal proposal goes into third reading without being brought into... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Final reading, second reading, third reading. Anyway, this isn't the last one today. We understand each other. It is solely for the reason that we really benefit everyone in this country who wants to and is planning to deal with agricultural production on the one hand. On the other hand, let's put ourselves back in a situation soon to discuss the same subject for the fourth time. Especially when we speak and fully understand the thinking given by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Cobankovic that this bill is in the role of creating assumptions for faster availability to agricultural land and that is correct. But if, as usual, she has a saying the way to hell is paved by good intentions. I would say here the way to possible corruption can also be paved by good intentions. In that sense, we also have some very concrete remarks on this text of the bill. In particular, Article 8 amending Article 24, which defines the possible release of payment of a one-time fee for the re-use of agricultural land. Definitely, and we are all in agreement, and I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also in agreement with the law of agricultural land applied or on which a golf course is built that should simply be excluded from this article because there is no reason for the area involved in the golf course to be freed of fees for transfer from agricultural land to building land. There is no reason for this to be more about huge areas, and this is a direct damage to the budget of the units of local self-government, regional self-government for the state budget, and more about the fact that with this re-intention fee, it pays rent to the state for all the infrastructure that the state has brought or made to that area, and I think it is a minimum of decency for the future investor to pay this willingness and goodness of the state and with... We therefore propose to exclude the golf course from Article 24 from the release of one-time compensation for the re-use of agricultural land. The next thing is Article 9 or Article 9 which amends Article 25 of the Basic Law and this is a reduction in land re-use fee, the first version was 50%, and now it's 5% better said fees are reduced 10 times, the fundamental and basic question is why? All the opportunities opened by faith, I personally believe, even though certain doubts have been expressed against the leaders of the units of local and regional self-government regarding the adoption of spatial plans and subjection to possible corruption in that segment always exist. But the function of the law is to prevent it from working, to prevent possible abuses, and that thing can be very easily solved. It can be resolved in a way to install, to determine the amount of compensation in the full market price of land of the same purpose within the border of the nearest construction area after the purpose of both P1 and 2 and for all other purposes. How full of the construction price we know is the tax administration and everyone knows it. Therefore, there is no reason to define in this way that I believe that there is another, but certainly not 10 times lower compensation than it was in the first basic. Let us take Pelješac thanks to the government of the Republic of Croatia's intention to build a Pelješko bridge which is definitely only a matter of timing and time when and unfortunately time has shown that at this time the Republic of Croatia is not ready for such an investment but at the same time there has been a boom in the purchase of agricultural land on that island and what happens. How much will they finally pay the square meter of the agricultural land purchased on that island the moment it gets yellow in the spatial plan when it becomes building. When crossing from 10 euros, 15 or 20 euros to a possible 200. We have a whole series of cases in the state. One of the arguments is business zones, so colleagues and colleagues as many business areas as we have in this country, how many business zones have opened or in these business areas built processing facilities, there are some, how many, how many quality agricultural land is literally destroyed by a spatial plan and repurpose into a business zone in that business zone, the infrastructure of the welfare of the state is brought into the business zone and finally what it has. We believe that it is precisely the space or possibility to refer this legislative proposal to another reading of the possibility that this problem can be resolved more on this particular subject are the remarks almost of all interested. Furthermore, Article 18, which regulates Article 42, also one indifference, namely, is that the buyer of agricultural land can pay in cash for a 20% discount and can also pay for some wars. In the basic proposal of the Law we had the view that this same buyer could not buy agricultural land... within a year of the conclusion of the sale contract. In this bill there is no such thing, in other words it means today I can buy land, I pay in cash 20% discount and tomorrow I do what I want with that land. In agreement with someone, I can turn it into a construction fee, so I pay a small fee, and I sell it again per square metre, it's possible to do anything. I completely agree with the Minister with you that he can't do it alone but that's something, I also agree that he doesn't need to be limited to 10 years, precisely because of the dynamics. But exactly in this segment are tax laws, in this particular segment, tax laws. I therefore believe that there is a need in this segment to prevent possible abuse in favour of the state budget and in favour of the budget of the units of local and regional self-government. Furthermore, this bill introduces common pastures and pasture communities. Very well, necessary, useful definitely, but we don't understand why. Only one pasture community can be established in the area of the local self-government unit, why? Why not two, three. It really has nothing to do with my misery, but it is even inexhaustible because of the configuration of the terrain and probably a whole series of such, with colleagues in Podravina, there is almost certainly room for more pasture communities because he understands livestock and he knows livestock and he will teach me about it. Therefore, we see no reason why it is limited to only one pasture community, we really don't see reasons, for sure it must be organised as a cooperative, that's good, but we also see no reason why the Croatian agricultural chamber is initiating the process of establishing a pasture community, why. Why the Croatian Agricultural Chamber? In the absence of the content of the work of the agricultural chamber, we are trying to find some new areas for them to deal with. With us at Bednja interested in the use of the pasture community Croatian agricultural chamber does not need it, it cleans the surplus as in many parts and in many other segments. Since it's bright, I'd just end up repeating the HNS and HSU's position, which is that we want to support this bill. If the Proposer accepts our proposal to conclude that he is going into the next reading in order to enable the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular the Prime Ministers to prove their consistency in the fight against corruption by a new proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, because this bill clearly has a corrupt potential. And if he had the corrupt potential to speak and the letter and the position of Minister Mlakar from 14 January 2011 where he is also seeking, here I have a copy here, where he too asks "to oppose the adoption of the law by emergency procedure and proposes to fully act in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 21 November 2009 which accepts the code of consultation with the interested public in the procedures in the adoption of laws, other regulations and acts". Minister Mlakar is in front of the ministry, it is also about the lease and the long-term lease. And especially one thing I haven't been able to mention since I think my colleagues from the club will mention in an individual debate, which is that 50 years for renting agricultural land intended for the return of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule, which is owned by legal persons, I underline legal persons, an inappropriate debt which challenges the very purpose of the reservation of agricultural land intended for return. I therefore believe that this deadline should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74067	I'd like to inform you that it's past 12.36 hours to report a ten-minute hearing. And now Vice-President and Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74068	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representatives and MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I don't question your good wishes at all, a good purpose to make your contribution to make this law as good as possible, as good as possible. This is a question of one issue of addressing agricultural land is one of the crucial issues of agriculture. You know that this problem has been solved practically since the '90s. A year, then '94. year, and then the change in the way of the system of transfer of competence over the availability of units of local self-government if I am not mistaken in 2002, which I would finally say is one of the significant forms of decentralisation. It means that units of local self-government are given part of their natural potentials, wealth and that they can be able to develop that they can create a way of making available that potential that should be in the function of developing that local part of the area or a certain part of local self-government to make it a function of development. Likewise, when we talk about decentralisation is also decentralisation of funds where the local self-government unit generates significant income based on income for certain forms of availability. Despite all these good purposes, despite the significant number of changes, and any change seemed to wish the law would be accelerated, to make it more passable, and to make the problem available primarily to state agricultural land as efficient as possible. Of course, in 2008 the promoter wanted to see the complexity of agricultural land. And, of course, there are certain restrictions in some countries when it comes to agricultural land that is affecting the issue of private property. And he tried to say I would complexly address the issue of agricultural land. The Constitutional Court was manifested in the way it was manifested, and unfortunately it is not us who should judge the Constitutional Court's testimony but that what the Constitutional Court has brought is practically changed and excluded from the law. You said here it was the function of the law to disable corruption. But I also want to say here that the function of the law is not to stop the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. And once again, I want to do it again, because you know it doesn't repurpose the owner or the owner of the agricultural land. In order to re-use certain conditions must be obtained, spatial planning documentation must be changed, the assumption must be made that this agricultural land could become and that something could be built on it. If I repeat again, if we go with such maximumist fees, then unfortunately for certain projects which are of interest to develop the local area, both for the development of municipalities, cities and counties, but I would say for some projects of state interest, unfortunately we become uncompetitive if the one who wants to invest must invest before investing so much that it would even come to a place where he could invest. This isn't working here, I'm convinced that this won't be a mass phenomenon and that now there will be a re-purpose of everything and everything, that all agricultural land will be re-purposed into construction and that it will be subject to certain activities coming out of agriculture. And I repeat again, he knows and there is a procedure, and I believe that the units of local self-government are responsible and lords of agricultural land so responsibly want to behave in spatial planning. But finally, and when the proposal comes, the proposal goes through a public debate, after a public debate, the authorities of the state administration and the authorities of the state administration then give their consent or deny their consent. So I don't believe and stand at the point of view that if the re-application, which honestly speaking by the 2008 law, is maximumized to me, I would say very, very high levels, which has become a limiting factor for the development of certain economic projects that this reduction in that re-use cannot be the reason for corrupt actions. The reason for the corrupt actions is whether someone wants to do something for the reasons of corruption or wants to seem and create a presumption of development. You know, and I think that's the way we have to look. I believe this is a function of economic development, that this is a function of increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. I need to look around, you're calling for the position and opinion of the Ministry of Administration. We worked on this law long, intensely, we agreed with the authorities of the state administration, we discussed it with representatives of the associations of agricultural producers, we discussed it with both HUP and others. Look, you've been calling for an opinion since 14.1.2011 of the Ministry of Administration, yes, that's when the opinion came. In the meantime, we agreed with the views and the Ministry of Administration gave a positive indication of this final bill. So this was a 1st month variant of the beginning of the year that came and suffered certain changes. And here, I thank you for the part of the constructive one. I believe that all of this is in good faith, and understand this and my explanation is not in function I would say that I would share lessons or anything but simply want to say that through this law I also want to encourage the Economic Recovery Programme, that we want to encourage investment and create assumptions of increasing the competitiveness of the development of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74069	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74070	Says the minister and spoke about the good intentions of the state or as he says the state gives local self-government this land in good faith. But the truth is a little different. Until '93. In the year, all agricultural land, all forest land, was on the basis of the alleged disposition of local self-government, or rather the congregations of the municipalities or the congregation, the municipalities were registered in grants, land books, so they had the right to use it over these social property. '93. the year is all nationalised, both agricultural and forest land and largely through centralisation policy stopped the development of many local units. I am absolutely for development and against politicization when it comes to development. However, it is not a problem I would say in return for investment. If someone is now investing 20 or 30 million kunas to hire 120 or 130 people because they will pay taxes, people will work etc. The problem is if someone bought state land for 1 kuna, and later it resells for 10 or 20 times more without any fences and clauses of limitations. Before we were 10 years old, we lost it now, and it's not promising.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74071	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74072	He'll have a problem, there'll be problems, but intention doesn't mean he's always bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74073	Thank you. It's the SDP and Mrs. Representative Dragica Zgrebec's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74074	Thank you, Mr. President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for this law is based on the decision of the Constitutional Court and the observed shortcomings in the scope of State agricultural land as indicated in the very explanation of this proposal. Although the anti-constitutional provisions that we warned about in the adoption of the SDP law were removed, the SDP club will not support the proposed amendments and additions because we have serious objections to the concept of the common Agricultural Land Act. The law has often been amended and amended since '91. the year with even two occasions and as a new law but no version has provided sufficient constitutional provision on agricultural land as good from special national interest and state protection, and in particular no protected state agricultural land as extremely valuable state property. We also made our objections to the concept when we passed the law in 2008 when we pointed to the unconstitutional provisions that the Constitutional Court has now abolished. With the present proposal, we have a few questions. Why the Constitutional Court's decision is not incorporated into the draft law, therefore the amendments have not abolished the provisions that have been lifted by the Constitutional Court. Why no adequate solutions were found for abandoned and inadequately processed land in total, therefore, private. For the purposes of the proposed amendments to Article 25, The law allows for cheap re-use of the highest quality land. That it is possible in another way to regulate these issues we support constitutional provisions that define ownership, which is the inviolability of ownership is one of the highest values of constitutional order and the basis of interpretation of the Constitution. The right of ownership is guaranteed. The property is binding. The rightholder and their users are obliged to contribute to the general good. Sea, seashore, islands, water, airspace, mineral treasure, other natural resources, but I also stress land, forests, plant, animal world, other parts of nature, etc. of particular importance, which is laid down by law as having special interest in State protection. In the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is possible to restrict or confiscate the right of ownership with the compensation of market value. Entrepreneurial freedoms and ownership rights can be extremely limited by law for the interests and safety of the Republic of Croatia, nature, human environment and human health. Finally, the law lays down the way in which goods of interest to the Republic of Croatia can benefit from and benefit from the powers conferred on them and the owners and the compensation for the restrictions they are subject to. Few of these constitutional options have been used through these amendments and amendments to the laws. By repealing Articles 15 and 16 there is no solution for the use of agricultural land which has not been processed in accordance with agritechnical measures, or has not been processed during the previous vegetative period and the land has grown by several years of growth. Such land poses a threat to agricultural production as it becomes a wasteland of weeds and plant diseases, and this problem needs to be solved in accordance with the Constitution. It is possible to warn the owner, and if he does not clean the plot after the warning then clean it at his expense. By repealing the provisions of Article 25(1), second and third paragraphs relating to the re-use of agricultural land located outside the boundaries of the building land, i.e. after the change of the spatial plan, the entry into the boundaries of the building land for an excessive difference in the amount to be paid for re-use, which was from 5 to 50%, no good solution was found for the preservation of agricultural land and its conversion into construction land. Consideration should also be given to possible machinations in such cases, since the present proposal, with significant exemptions, is too small for particularly valuable land. Because according to this proposal, this amounts to only 10% of the market value of the building land, and the rest is paid from 1 to 5%. In particular, we have a problematic release of re-use payments for golf courses, in view of the Golf Act, which provides for that purpose and the area of at least 85 ha, and construction on that surface of 25%. So, and the announced possible abolition of the Golf Law will not actually solve this problem of not paying off the re-use of agricultural land for golf courses. Removal of Articles 81 to 85 of the Law which regulated the availability of private agricultural land, which is unconstitutional. The possibility of the first purchase of the state through an agency which should have a far greater function at its disposal and in the control of agricultural land, and in particular of the state agricultural land, has not been considered. The current concept of state-owned land did not prove to be good from the way the programme was developed to its availability. We've heard now that one part of the local units didn't make up these programs. We believe that a serious analysis of current experiences and effects should be made and the best solutions proposed. Today, when agricultural producers are over-indebted, consideration should be given to the possibility that state land is not sold but is given priority in a long-term lease to producers whose agricultural activity is essential. In the current practice of available state agricultural land there are plenty of dissatisfactions, precisely those that appear in competitions, and that there are different approaches I will tell you ministers on the example of these days of the municipality of Dragalić which has opened a tender for purchase, for sale or lease about 600 hectares of land. They showed me or brought me people the text of a contest in which you should have paid 10% of the bail. Meanwhile, they say the tender has been annulled, and more than a month since the tender was annulled to the people no bail has been returned. So that's something that's, I'll give you that competition and you'll see. We believe that available state land programmes should be done in cooperation with local units and agencies. Therefore, agencies and local units or vice versa based on established criteria that ensure good use of land. In particular, we point out that state land has been leased, or sold for 18 years, and we have no record of how much funds on this basis have been charged and for which the purpose has been spent. By investing in the budget, and at three levels, in local, regional and state-run, their purpose is lost, and we believe that these funds should be fully used to improve land policy through the circulation of properties and various agrotechnical measures as the most favourable... through the possible construction of a channel network and other purposes to increase land's bonuses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Good experience in this was the Republic of Slovenia. For that purpose, funds should be collected into a special account which would be managed by, for example, an agency that should be better qualified for that purpose. It remains a finding that, with some positive shifts in the amendments and additions to the law, the most problematic provisions that speak of the reuse of agricultural land into building land are actually our most problematic provisions. Serious remarks have also been made through this debate, but also through various civil associations. The re-use, in fact, of agricultural land should be in the interaction of local and national interests. For example, in France, the re-use of agricultural land is approved by a three-member commission composed of representatives of local self-government, state representative and the Agricultural Land Agency. The president is always a farmer from the regional agricultural chamber. They then assess the social interest, i.e. the benefit of such a reuse. I think that we should use positive experiences of others and that it might be good that if we don't already accept that this law goes into another reading to prepare the concept of a new Agricultural Land Act that would respect all these remarks that we have made so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74075	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74076	Yeah, once again I'm going to say about development absolutely everything. If someone wants to invest one or two million kunas, hire 2 or 3 workers should give him everything as well as one who wants to invest 10 or 20 million kunas, 100 or 120 workers. Even give him real estate for nothing, because without it we're going to fail. Because these investments are employed by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not Mars, full budget of the Republic of Croatia, not some Tungusia, or I don't know who. But what happens when you're already talking about the low agricultural land price in Istria? The price in Luxembourg of one square metre of agricultural land is around 11, 12 euros. In Lombardia, in Porusca, in Venice between 5 and 7 euros. In Istria at one point a year ago, two days ago the price of agricultural land was 14 euros while elsewhere in Croatia was zero two or zero three euros. Why? Because there are individuals, here I can say, even around Conchar, etc. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On the one hand, they helped people who sold. But on the other hand, they hit the other ones who bought not to speculate, but to round up the property, etc. because they had to pay not at the price purchased 4 or 5 euros at the end of the sales tax, but at 14 or more euros. Clearly, there are no farmers without land. They need to be sold, but they still don't allow the state to trade. But it should also be possible for the owners of business spaces to come to the same farmers because there are no craftsmen without a business space like there are no peasants without land.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74077	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74078	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Parliament. I welcome this part of your debate and allow me to make a few clarifications. The regulations suspended by the Constitutional Court are no longer an integral part of the law, and for these reasons we did not particularly highlight and particularly abolish them. As regards the spending of funds, there is a Regulation on the use of funds from the lease of sales and the long-term lease is strictly intended and the Regulation regulates the purpose of why the available resources are to be used, based on the availability and permanent establishment of agricultural land. As far as jurisdiction is concerned, the municipality of Dragalic as a unit of local self-government is the one calling the competition. It is also the one that determines, which charges bail and, if it is not done here, no body of the state administration or the ministry has annulled the public tender but the municipality itself has annulled the public tender and the municipality is obliged to repay the bail paid. And I think that we should and agree that we should criticise those who hold the money from farmers who have responded to the competition, who have paid bail and whose bail has not been returned and I don't think that's good. I'm using the opportunity to also say that it's the obligation and jurisdiction of the local self-government unit and to choose to pay back the potential tenants to return the financial assets that are due on the basis of the guarantees. When we talk about this rule, of course, as I said, strict means and means must be returned to agriculture, and they are from this purpose that you were talking about. On the other hand, I would also like to emphasise the major procedures that the state has carried out in the last 4.5 years mainly on the arrangement of a detailed channel network. This segment, unfortunately, which was in the jurisdiction of the owners or users of agricultural land during a longer period of time, was not adequately reflected and precisely insufferable and insecure of the detailed channel network was largely the cause of certain damages on agricultural land, was the reason for inadequate use of a particular part of agricultural land and thus insecure good agriculture. And here, again here I want to say that for us this law is very important, that we have worked in the ministry long and intensely on this law. We respect the fact that we may not have completely solved all the solutions in the right way, we also respect the fact that there are certain nomotechnical I would say failures, but we also hold that it can be fixed and that it will be corrected and that it will be arranged with a certain part of the amendment that we as proposings will be prepared to accept. And here I am also stressing once again the need to pass this law I think that a lot of time would lose if we went into another reading, mainly in this section about the development of certain economic projects which, I dare say, are even a good part of these projects is of the interest of development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74079	Thank you. We have a few corrections. First Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74080	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, although I am correcting the incorrect assumption that it is indeed true that the Constitutional Court has put Article 15 and Article 16, but that does not mean that we should not continue to act as you said to the Ministers. We must prescribe this law what to do with private agricultural land if it is rooted, unless it is maintained in a fertile state and if it damages neighbouring parcels. For Yugoslavia, we had a law that defined that if you had corn unpunished in 30.04 that the inspector could act. Today, we must also have ways that unless such land is maintained in a fertile state that there are penalties, that it must be prescribed and that it must be seen how it will be solved, that no harm is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74081	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74082	Mr. Minister, you're talking about the funds being raised by a programme of availability of strictly dedicated funds. Here, as you suggested, the amendments to article 44 are actually about legalizing the robbery. I'm asking you how it's possible for you to, at the moment when the three committees of Parliament, yesterday, have a thematic session on the return of property to the land communities you propose, you have the strength to suggest that this property be frozen for 50 years, i.e. to be leased for 50 years. How come you're morally entitled to what was robbed in '47? For 50 years to rent speculators? It should be returned urgently to those whose it is, not this country, based on a robbery.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74083	Correction, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. ... Here you go, counsel. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74084	Well, this correction should not be seen as a political struggle but simply an intention to improve this law because regardless of who or how it claims the situation in agriculture, but also in the Croatian economy is neither great nor good. And that is why I believe that more authority should also be given to the units of local self-government and this Law does not resolve, and that, because I believe that Mr. Minister now has a meeting with family economies at the Ministry, given that I have received such information, there is no article that is related to the land of particular interest for the local self-government unit which is an integral part of the programme of availability. I remind you that many of these lands not only in Slavonia but also throughout Croatia have entered into spatial plans, general urban plans and where there will be a certain change in space but I still have that land at my disposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this land are signed contracts exclusively where HDZ is in power. And that's how the government prevents the development of other parts. It's a fact, Mr. Minister, and that's why I'm asking exactly for the Ministry of Agriculture to be through, because it gives consent to the programme of availability to return exactly that provision that was before that the Ministry gave consent through the programme and to that land.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74085	Now we're gonna hang up, he can't because it's already over.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74086	I'll conclude now, if someone wants to build golf and if someone wants to re-route agricultural land, they have to pay for it. That's always been.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74087	It's a debate. Now, we'll interrupt the session and continue at 3:00. The first is club IDS Mr. Representative Damir Cain, pa Mile Horvat etc. Thank you very much and pleasantly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74088	We continue with the afternoon session of the Parliament. It's a club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74089	Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, you four, five of you are here, secretary and three MPs. Now we've talked about this import or export policy before anyway. Clearly, if we want to export my judgment, we must also allow something to be imported. Croatia cannot normally be closed there. But really on the other hand, the question is how to reduce this enormous imports and, through this policy, reduce imports simply encourage domestic production. That maybe someone will say depends on "domestic," those other people who work for 2 or 3 thousand kuna salaries or pensions speak about policy prices so what's cheaper for them will buy it. The third ones talk about tax policy and so on. But when we talk about the Adriatic, then you must simply bear in mind the fact that foreigners have de facto taken over a good portion of the hotel base of the Republic of Croatia. And now big companies, water or private investment funds, for example. Count Eltz who has one Riviera that now buys I don't know the hotels down in Dubrovnik, etc. from Štrok who also has its headquarters in England, so Luksic group that has a Blue Lagoon based in Chile, so Zagreb bank that has an Istria tourist but above it stands unicredito from Italy or Rome, etc. So that this policy reduces imports through these privatised companies can hardly be reached. On the other hand, our managers at the head of these companies are Croatian managers but you know those between their own bonuses on the one hand and patriotism and benefits for the Republic of Croatia will prefer to choose what brings any profit to them, whether their families. As far as this law itself is concerned, we can see that the law was passed in this form two years ago. And I also join those who think that law should go to another reading. Some have mentioned earlier these reactions to the public that are in some way against these changes to the law and can indeed happen relatively quickly that this law follows the fate of the golf law announced by the prime minister for a while. What's the problem with the fundamentals of this law? As some farmers came relatively cheaply to agricultural land, and now without any deadlines, the delay in changing the legislator allows them not only to re-purpose but also to give in to third parties. What is certainly the key to this law is set to page 3. 1. in the assessment of the situation and the basic issues to be resolved, and here I am literally saying: "that the proposed amendments and additions to the provisions of Article 25 are in line with those decisions of the Constitutional Court in such a way that, on the date of entry into force of the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws, they are located outside the limits of the construction area, which, after the change of the spatial pay, are covered by the limits of the construction area, the amount of the compensation for establishing the change of purpose from 50% to 5% and 100% respectively, for the particularly valuable and valuable farm land" etc. What has certainly been done so far has been to allow farmers to buy state land. I personally believe that this policy is, although I would always prefer to stand up for leases, concessions, etc. Okay. It's okay. Why? Because there are no farmers without land. Farmers need land, why must they own it? In order to get credit, to be able to pawn this land, to give it higher than some mortgages, so that there may be some incentives, subsidies, etc. However, this reuse of land for sale is something else. This is where the character of farmers is lost, and I think, in that case, under those conditions under which someone has come to land, that land should be returned to the state, not that we allow individuals to trade with the state, and that enormously de facto in some parts of the Republic of Croatia overnight means rich. However, speaking of a farmer being able to reach land, I think the problem is that all citizens of this country are not in an equal position. So, I said a farmer can get to a state country, the workers could buy for I don't know six, seven, or eight thousand marks, in '91. The second year's apartment, political caste by the '90s or after '90s could have gotten villas, the tycoons came to the factory, the PIFs came to the hotel, the foreigners bought Telecommunications, the banks, we sold to the Hungarians INA, which I know, through denationalisation we return property that was nationalized there in '45. Or '50. years, but the only ones who can't reach anything in this country or even business spaces where they work for 30, 40 or 50 years are our craftsmen, our merchants, our craftsmen, and I don't think that's fair. If there are no farmers without a country, there is also no craftsman or merchant without a business space and I think that if I am not mistaken in my first reading in this House, I should also come to the agenda and talk about it at the very least. Agriculture, many have said, is on low branches, as it is, regardless of what the country is investing for these needs, unless I'm wrong at an annual level somewhere around 3.5 billion kunas of different incentives or subsidies. I read it somewhere today, maybe it was in Vjesnik, Mrs Pusic said it, that from some European funds for agricultural purposes we were able to withdraw only 4.9%, on the other side of the Vesnik. What surely also deserves to be commented is these announced protests by farmers 15.7. I would tell them don't do this, don't give tractors to the sea as they announced it would happen to us because in the season it takes money to share subsidies either for agriculture, shipbuilding or for other purposes. In the last ten years, 30, 40 billion kunas of state money, incentive money or subsidy money went for agriculture. The effect is as modest as in shipbuilding, the truth some ministers each year increase the property by 5 hectares which is fine, but why, for example, when we talk about it, a craftsman or craftsman might not be able to come into possession under similar conditions, let's say, the space in which he works. The key to this law is to reduce these fees from 50 to 5%, or 100% to 10%, Article 9 of page 5, so the re-use is to be reduced. It would be logical to reduce in my court for agricultural facilities even to zero if necessary. It would be normal for anything illegal to fit into spatial plans to be legalized, it doesn't matter from the Adriatic up to Drava, from Danube to Dragonja, clearly with some payment fee etc. The stories of some possible urbanization may well be standing, every law being passed for someone, that is clear, the time will show for whom this law is passed. But once again, I say, the basic grudge is that we can buy, we can't buy, but someone buys state and now, overnight without any fences, can be found in the situation that what he bought for 1 or 2 kunas resell maybe for 30, 40, 50, which I know how many euros, and that de facto of whether he's going to pay some rent or something like that, and the sudden God-given profit. What I would also say publicly by reading these polemics of certain associations of citizens, green parties, etc. There's no need to be afraid of building, God forbid it's built in this country. I said, about 2008, 50 billion kuna was spinning in construction jobs, last year only 30 billion kuna. The question is how much this year, maybe less. And what that means is, in the last few years of construction, we've lost 50,000 jobs. Only in the difference of 30 to 50 billion, those 20 million kunas that have not been realised by the state have lost about 5 billion of what the value added tax, contributes, which I know what is not and understandably that we need to understand that without doing it there is no development and therefore no one should be concerned if it is built. Today we should be perhaps concerned when we see that we have no idea how many, somewhere I have heard 30 thousand perhaps unsold apartments in Zagreb, 10 thousand perhaps in Istria, in Primorje-Gorski, Dalmatia County also in every ten thousand. So today they should be worried about those people who may not be able to sell, not maybe but can't sell those apartments that can't, say, return loans, who can't pay for co-operatives, who will be left without it overnight. There are now even polemics about the re-tax on property. Carefully and with this because, thanks to however bad it was but something was good, the arrangement by the 1990s, and somewhere around 90% of the people in the Republic of Croatia today own, the adults clearly, their apartment or have some property. In one Germany, only 60% of citizens have their own apartment, in Italy as well as about 60%. In Croatia, it means those married, families, etc. There are up to 90% of them owned by an apartment or house or inherited property, etc., etc. This law won't change anything dramatically. God forbid something changes, to start building, to witness an investment boom overnight even though I said I doubt it would happen. No matter what, it would be good for the law to go to another reading and remove any dispersion, to be suitable for anyone. I used to say, however, that one problem that may have been typical of Istria alone, mainly because of speculation when it comes to real estates where agricultural land was sold to us for 14 euros per square metre. This was the official price of the Republic of Croatia or of the competent ministry. In Liechtenstein, it was 11 euros, in one Lombardy, Bavaria, etc. 5 to 7 euros which will say that those who normally wanted to buy something, trade something, could not simply participate, that only speculators could participate. And Article 16 is the buying championship, very short. In my opinion, when it comes to the buying championship that I'm not quoting right now, you'd have to have the owner. Let’s not set up some individuals here so that they can get under the allegations of other people’s land because you will argue with friends, neighbors against neighbors, village with village, family within that family or family and allow someone on the side to acquire something that someone has owned for 30 or 40 years, worked, etc. If someone had owned it for 20, 30, 40 years clearly that he should come to an opportunity, the state can't acquire it... it is clear that the same buys according to legal standards and that it has an advantage over anyone else, not that someone else higher than these conditions that the legislator here states in Article 16 can steal something with which he has identified himself, something that identifies his entire family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All in all, I think it would be good if the law went to another reading. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74090	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Excuse me. One correction, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain incorrectly said that all farmers were relatively cheap to get to agricultural land. That's incorrect because you said yourself that not all farmers are in an equal position. For me, in particular, farmers cannot possibly get to cheap agricultural land. It is very expensive in this respect and their efforts for competitive agriculture are even more respectful. But I'm glad to hear from you in such understandable tones. Apparently, the cameras may be doing their thing in the morning or because the staff is coming to Belgrade today, so if you have time for more time, you'll be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74092	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74093	I've never run a staff, but I know you've always been a regular welcome. Maybe it's because you had to. What you personally meant, I don't know. But I know you're on every landing in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74094	Mr. Representative, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74095	Not everyone came out clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74096	What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74097	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74098	There isn't. No, no, no. This time you won't. The Honorable Representative, 209th, or 214th, has nothing to do with it. Thank you very much. You're done. Let's move on with the debate. It's SDSS's turn. On behalf of that club, the distinguished representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74099	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The theme of agriculture and especially the segment of agricultural land available within the framework of agricultural policy is a thing that is always very good... For the debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, a very broad topic that is likely to be shared by anyone involved in such a debate has its own view of the problem and the view of the situation today in agriculture. For us, this topic is particularly interesting, and it is particularly interesting for the area of special state concern because it should, with one rational implementation, compensate practically for that damage in terms of lost jobs that occurred after the privatisation of combinations, the abolition of cooperatives, in our view of abolishing very strong cooperation, co-operatives, etc. So, to analyze laws, this and every other that is often found as a system law before us is an opportunity to give a general assessment of the state of some social relations related to the subject that these laws regulate. I'll just say the introductory phrase. So the land was at one point the most attractive interest of a particular part of society, and by that logic now is the opportunity to take the land and the question of when these opportunities will be repeated again. And so many participants have acted in these actions. Interest in the purchase of land, i.e. the agricultural land supply programme, was almost as an interest in privatisation, and besides, this is about a kind of privatisation of general social wealth. That's why it's such an interest in this process. In the very explanation of the law, the proposer cited five to six strong arguments, which made it clear that it was going into the amendments to the law. I'm not going to list them here, but we appreciate that these are in some way by the proposings spotted to say the neural points of the whole process. And these changes, which here, by amending the Law on Agricultural Land and installing certain solutions of the new and correcting old solutions, are likely to be sought in accordance with some experience in the current implementation of the agricultural land distribution programme, a little thing is likely to be corrected, directed towards some better solutions. Is it just these proposals that changed that or if I don't know? This debate will show. But I'll mostly go through a few articles that seem so authentic to me for discussion, so I'll give my opinion about them. Article 9 defines a reduced fee for land change. It's this famous article that's been pollemized so much here in this assembly, and there are conflicting opinions in the public as well. I'm not gonna paralyze about that. I'll just say that we think that in our concept, the basic concept of reducing the compensation for the re-use of agricultural land can be stimulating and should be stimulating. Because in a number of discussions when we talked about economic development we came to the fact that too much burdens the cost of construction, investment, etc. So that's where I'm gonna stop because it's not a field that I know too much about. But one general point of view is that this investment price should be cheaped, among other things, with a reduction in land re-use fee. But I also express a certain concern that we also think that this also opens and creates opportunities for certain mixings that will be inevitable in the area of trade with this land. So I believe that the proponent is also aware of it and that we will never create an ideal legal norm in a way that kind of mixing is eliminated. We therefore doubt that with this legislative proposal, we will be able to control precisely the negative effects of this provision and possible interference, and we are very careful here to analyse such a legal proposal, or solution. In Article 16, this is a very important article for us in some ways. Not because it is structured to talk about extended conditions for the buying championship but because it results in a number of different negative consequences in the process of implementing the land supply programme itself. For us, therefore, this article is the elements of this article that have been handed down to us by the legions of the whole law. Here I would say, I would refer to an example from a practice that happened recently, and it happened in the Municipality of Trpinj. So, according to the legal authorities, the Municipal Council has decided to do so in a way fair, fair and correct, both in terms of the concessionaire and in relation to the village itself, to say so as to be interested in the other part of the country. So they assigned 1680 hectares to the concessionaire by their original decision, and they assigned 1650 hectares to the village. And the thing would have been fine and correct if there hadn't been a sudden turn of events in about 10 days, a concessionaire in various ways, not to convince what, but to make certain members of the council the benefits and these council members change their minds, the other majority and the council very quickly change that decision in a way that gives the concessionaire another 1,000 acres of land to these 1680s. And the village, therefore, remains at the disposal of 650 hectares of land throughout the village, or the entire municipality of 5 villages. I won't say here, I won't qualify a gesture like this. In any case, this is also borderlined by the assessment of morality, borders and the assessment of the legality of such one behaviour, but the fact is that this village is one, this village, that municipality along with several surrounding municipalities one of the most developed and agrarian and cattle municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. And of course these people had the right to expect that like everyone else in all other parts of the Republic of Croatia, they were involved in rounding up their family agricultural holdings. That's why they've prepared themselves, and they've modernised themselves, and they've entered certain loans, counting that in this round of land, they'll be able to round up their property. And for them it's a huge property, which is the possibility of buying the land a modus vivendi in that area. Therefore, what is unacceptable to us is this way of conduct. This kind of thing happened a few years ago and in Jagodnjak Municipality, where it was also given a stronger concessionary by a certain way by the manipulation of the agricultural land institute. In any case, this is not the logic of the law, this is not the legislator's intensity, this is the opposite of what we're trying to achieve with the agricultural land distribution program. Article 20 speaks of a lease, new ones are being established, a new lease period is being arranged, and that is fine, but I will also say here that we still have in particular in the eastern part of the Republic of Croatia the concessionaires are paying 280 kuna per year concession fees per hectare of the country. When we recalculate that, so we won't extract any particular mathematics, but I have to say that in this way, if we compare that the basic lease was 860 kuna per hectare for everyone else, we have to say how much funds, the original funds were cut off locally, the budget of local self-government charged by such a concession fee. In Article 21, we are talking about the arrangement of the so - called so - called order. "the pasture cooperatives", about how a group of cattlemen will exploit a common collective pasture owned by the state. The idea may not be bad, however, if we are reading literally what the legislator here predicted, that these pasture communities must be organised as agricultural cooperatives I am asking whether this was meant by the form of the organisation of a agricultural cooperative in accordance with the Law on Agricultural Cooperatives which we recently had here at the debate, which means that in this pasture community they will have to join at least 7 people, that they will have to have their own capital, that this cooperative, or the community of legal persons, will have their own jury accounts, the responsible person, their final account, and all that together, bearing the legal form of the agricultural cooperative. It may also be a solution to the future, but I'm asking a logical question here – how will we of our people in Lika with one tradition of different use of pasture and with the structure of the population we have today on the ground say no, you can't use pastures until you are organized as a cooperative, as a legal profit or non-profit organization. So it's some sort of thing that we should talk about as a solution. The role of the Agricultural Chamber is also unclear here. Therefore, its task, i.e. its authority, is to organise such a kind of community, or cooperative. It is also perfectly acceptable for us and the comment of one of the colleagues who said, who asked why only one such community can be organised in one unit of local self-government? In Article 28, you provided for a series of elements for the termination of the lease agreement. I think this is a very good solution. We should have had this as a legal solution before, because just those numbered elements as the reasons for the breakup are also the life situations that are happening today and that have been happening so far. So here the land was still leased even though it was prohibited by law. It was leased very simply because large concessionaries or large tenants through incentives that the state paid very easily and very simply paid someone a rent. Therefore, all were satisfied and those who indirectly increased their surfaces came to a number of hectares and those who got these hectares very easily and now have charged them and it takes so many years, and all in all it bypasses is a basic legal provision that says that it is forbidden to sublet this land. Also, regardless of the ban on selling such land for the next 10 years and the land is sold. The legal form of doing this is unknown to me but I know that the land that is in the ransom, the lease, the sale and the legal traffic are being made. The economic programme we are calling on here should, in its basis, be a basic element of agricultural land, a basic measure by which we should have assessed that it will be available in the future with this land, and the purpose of this land and the effects that it achieves and even the number of employees that we will employ, etc. Unfortunately, this economic programme has been reduced to a mere form, to a declarative fact in the law, nor is it being controlled on the ground today whether it is being implemented, we often have the phenomenon that it is doing quite the opposite of what the programme was offered at the first time when we went to a tender for the purchase of a particular country. Therefore, here, in any case, the classical rights of mandatory relations should be applied, the obligations under the contract are binding if we are bound to something, signed, then any violation of these types of obligations should be a very simple relationship for the termination of those contracts. In Article 50, you are the proposing here defines a number of things, a number of jobs, competences assigned to the Agency. Among other things, the agricultural land administration is being abolished within the Resord Ministry, certain powers are being given to the Agency, and even at one point we have given the authority to restrict the transport of private property, the question only whether we have left agriculture, politics in the hands of the Agency, or whether this agency which is so conjecture will be able to deal with all these problems and carry agriculture as expected here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74100	Thank you. And on behalf of the National Minority Club, the distinguished representative Zdenka Chuhil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74101	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law amending the Agricultural Land Act stresses that changes and additions will speed up the privatisation of one of the most valuable natural resources in order to improve economic recovery, increased employment, faster and better positioning of agricultural land. However, we said the same thing a year ago, when we had changed a year old after a year, and I have to say that this has been going on for almost 20 years. In fact, 20 years after the adoption of the first Law, the land defined as social property became state-owned without even knowing how much land there is, in what state the land is and what purpose it is. Today, if nothing else, we have really taken a step in defining how to dispose of the state-owned agricultural land in a way that we know that the sale is intended for 220 thousand hectares but unfortunately, in those 20 years and today only 25% is sold, for the lease is intended for 131 thousand hectares in the lease is only 70%. For the long-term lease, 132 thousand hectares were reserved, so only 57%. The fact that the number of contracts concluded so far covers only 50% of the state land's total. Equally for return, there are about 64 thousand hectares left, or 63,000 999 hectares that go for other purposes, and indeed after a long time, it would be interesting to hear how much nationalized land has been returned so far. What makes me particularly happy is that after 20 years, we realized that the areas of agricultural land owned by the state, combined and aronded, cannot be squeezed and can be leased and long-term leased. I would even point out that a long-term lease should be preferred because it is known that the short-term lease, that land is not managed and that it is still a non-renewable resource. We in the Club of National Minorities have largely every time and every time we amend this Law and have stressed that there is no European country that currently does not have at least 15-20% of the country in its possession for crisis situations. That at a given time it has the ability to grow deficit products, that it has the ability to dispose of them through concessions or long-term leases. It would be interesting to hear how much such land has already been privatised, depreciated, or how much damage has been done, I will not now talk about a production that, instead of growing year by year, it has fallen from year to year, we have here today had a lot of data in what state our agriculture and I have been slightly saddened by today when I heard that one of our neighbours is exporting $2.2 billion and that they are importing everything by a billion and that their positive balance of exchange in agriculture is billions and 200 million, and their incentives to 4.5 million hectares are only 300 million euros. And they have a successful production and export. In this law we reintroduce the category of common pasture which is defined as a production technological unit for the pasture of cattle and poultry. A colleague spoke of having to be organized as a cooperative, but unfortunately it confuses a wording in a law that should not stand in law because it is not a legal form. I literally quote: "Croatian agricultural chamber initiates the procedure of establishing a pasture community which... natural and legal persons with residence or headquarters in the area of the unit of local self-government" etc. IS it, then, that this Law, along with common pastures, knows the pasture communities, or who makes up the pasture communities, and as for the common pasture? I think this needs to be fully restructured because the law does not know the initiatives, the law knows the specific rights or obligations to certain institutions or individuals. It is also a bit surprising that although it is a new form that must be formed as a cooperative or that it will be a community, you will have to answer, that it is leased immediately for 20 years. Something we don't know how he's gonna do business, something we don't know he's going to be in a new organization right now, I don't think the lease should be immediately defined for 20 years, but maybe for a shorter period. Because someone can take one let's call the tenant, the cooperative, for 20 years, in the second year, the third one will go bankrupt, or he won't be able to deal with that problem, and you've leased him for 20 years. Maybe you should be very sensitive at first. In addition to Article 19 of Article 43 of the agricultural land sale owned by the State, the direct contract shall delete and transfer to the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the management of state property. Perhaps it is one good thing that the state will only do so, but I am afraid that there will be a conflict of jurisdiction, because as the availability programme brings the municipality, the city, has certain plans, it is already in dealing with that land at a given time that can involve a state that simply through a free contract of certain land that it normally put into sale under that programme. Prolonged time for not paying the rent for the mining agricultural land to be leased from 10 to 40 years of age. In fact, I can't understand that someone once could have suggested for 10 years, or now four times as many. I personally believe that such proposals should not come to the Assembly. I took my time, and I analyzed why for 40 years, and I see that it's justified for 40 years because demining a hectare costs 80 thousand kunas and 8 kunas per square metre, respectively. But who could have suggested 10 years when he had to know and what demining means and how much it costs and how much rent it is to just release from payment in this House he suggested. I think things like that are just as inadmissible. I have to say that land management policy can't be just circumnavigation, that's all. sales, leases and concessions must already be on land management. Following data from soil analysis, manure consumption is clearly reading the fact that the poverty of our agricultural areas is primarily due to poor technology that returned to the 1970s but is partly due to the country's lease and poor management. By renting land, every master like I said from today to tomorrow, but I especially want to look back at Article 7 and Article 8 of the former law, and now these laws are being corrected. First, it is inadmissible to define that only for the purpose of the protection of agricultural land will further be added and damages will be carried out to examine and monitor permanently the state of pollution of agricultural land, etc. I don't think it's necessary to stress that pollution and damage all the time. Croatia argues that it has preserved soil, not polluted soil, and therefore this definition in order to protect agricultural land is carried out to examine and monitor permanently the state of agricultural land that includes, 1st determination of soil fertility, which is precisely under the fertility of the floor of the profession, and all others involve a set of physical, chemical and biological characteristics not to add them now and not to burden them. I think the whole article needs to be redesigned. It is even scarier in this article even though it is now to say the bill or supplementing the law has not been corrected and the Office for the Land that no longer exists is still being used. So we have in the same article to use the Office for the Land and then in the next article of the Institute, and at the same time the article is complemented and it is said that taking a soil sample is the center, thinking of the Center for Agriculture, Food and Village where the Office for the Land is integrated today, if I am not mistaken, that is, we have passed that law. And therefore, these articles are not at all purified and harmonised and the National Minority Club suggests that the law actually goes into second reading. Something else we warned about when the law was passed, and later on, it is a fact of who does the analysis and who is competent to do the analysis. It is said that the analysis exclusively works for the institution, pays for whoever is the land user although we know that there are enough institutions in the market that are authorised for pedological analysis or analysis of this species. The EU gives a similar institution to our Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village Monitoring over complete land but also pays the state, and when it comes to private users, they can choose who they want on the market, not who is given the monopoly and who is being imposed on them by the state. I think we need to clear these two things up here, too. Something else when the state rents agricultural land, it must define what kind of goods it gives, what quality it is, and not that someone who rents that land will now be doing analyses to see what the nutrient potential is, or what quality that land is. It must be done by the one who rents, and it is still okay that whoever uses the country to be a obligor every 4 years and to make an analysis to see which mara and how he manages that land. I also want to look back at articles 15 and 16. The fact that Articles 15 and 16 have been put out of force by the Constitutional Court precisely because it has been involved in ownership without giving the owner the possibility to be given legal protection or to have the possibility of objecting to administrative proceedings. And we are now looking for a solution to how to manage an abandoned land that is a potential source of weeds, diseases, pests, instead of giving an alternative to that, we simply reconciled with the fact that the Constitutional Court abolished Articles 15 and 16. It can still mean it's unprocessed land, it can still be to say weeds and all that harmful to the neighbor. In no country is it allowed, no one by law can force anything to sow on their land, to exploit it if they do not want to. But also every country has to have an instrument to force the land to be kept in a cultured state, whether it's just cut down, whether it's just immersed, just for the reasons I'm talking about. So I think once again, and this is why this law deserves a second reading, so that in a few months we don't go back to changing and supplementing because there is no country that doesn't exactly have the opportunity to intervene in the protection of its silver, to protect one non-renewable resource. For these reasons, the National Minorities Club will give the amendment that the law goes into second reading in order to solve the missing articles, secondly, we will take this as a first and that in that time it is really complemented and what has been left out, but certainly what is mixed up, to make one consolidated text, to clear what is today, and what is not from institutions etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74102	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. There are 17 people reported in total. She's the first law-abiding representative of Mirela Holly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74103	Thank you, Your Honor. At the beginning of the debate on this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Renaissance of Agricultural Land and Land Speculants, I would like to stress that I will not support this scandalous law, i.e. I will vote against the adoption of this law. Anyone who even reads this bill on a superficial basis without any doubt had to conclude that this was not about any law on agricultural land but that it was exclusively about the intention of this law to facilitate the reuse of agricultural land, in which, in fact, the ruling HDZ and HSS kuna as an extremely valuable resource in construction and at a miserable price that is incredibly unscrupulously suited to various unscrupulous land speculants. What is particularly worrying is that this creates enormous legal uncertainty and inequality before the law which is a serious attack on the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and by the restoring ministry and government. How do we explain these extremely difficult words? By simple logic, because in the event of the adoption of this law, unscrupulous land speculators who, because of their political ties and the provision of local sheriffs, can manipulate spatial plans will be in a much better and more favourable position than honest, ordinary or unequivocal investors buying building land at a commercial market price. Where there is a fair competition and equality before the law if one investor is asked to buy land at the commercial price of the building land, the other is allowed to buy thousands and thousands of squares of agricultural land at a significantly better price and then pay a very favourable fee for a re-use of 10% of the land's market price for a particularly valuable P1 or a valuable P2 farm plot or an even more embarrassing 5% of the market price of the rest of the agricultural land. Really very uniform starting positions for investors. Any reasonable person would think that the objective of the Agricultural Land Act is the protection of agricultural land and a wise and sustainable availability of this extremely valuable resource, especially when this resource is still in state ownership. From year to year, we witness that agricultural production in Croatia is decreasing, despite the increasing amounts the state gives for subsidies and potentials, we testify that the area under agricultural cultures is much smaller than in the former state period and that paradoxically parallel to the constant emphasis on agriculture as one of the backbones of Croatian development. How, then, and bearing everything in mind, to interpret a law like this that advocates further degradation and reduction of agricultural areas in favour of construction. Wasn't the ministry's resolute proposal of the law seriously confusing pots with the comprehensive assistance of the government and the prime minister who so likes to be presented as a passionate warrior against corruption. Croatia has indeed become a rather paradoxical country lately. On the one hand, we have a prime minister who yesterday, following years of competition over another of the many scandalous and anti-constitutional laws in the government's workshop, has announced on the subject of the Law on Golf Courses that the ruling coalition will propose that this law be abolished. And why, because a few years after the adoption of this shameful regulation, we can freely settle into a group of banana countries in terms of awareness of the corruption of the prime minister and realize that this law enables corruption and apartmentization of the coast. This came with careful study and analysis, driven by resistance from NGOs as if she had never heard criticism from the Parliament on this subject. It has thus demonstrated the extent to which the Parliament, which according to the current Constitution, is the most legislative body, i.e. one of the key institutions of the system that are doing their job well according to the prime minister. The Prime Minister's level of respect for the Parliament, or her relationship with Parliament, can indeed be compared to the brooch, as counterpart Milanka Opačić said the other day, a very handsome, formal decoration of a democratic system whose only role is to be a decoration on the suit of a completely autistic government. And suddenly, the enlightened prime minister concludes that we can build golf courses in Croatia without such a national law. The key question is whether it always takes the prime minister three years to carefully analyse each legal document from some 20 pages, which is in itself very worrying, or whether it is still the moment of a systematic court to abolish this law as anti-constitutional, about the point in Brussels that this law does not allow for the closure of chapter 23, or whether it wants to hand over to most of the Croatian public who receives measles and the very mention of this banana law. On the other hand, this suddenly enlightened prime minister sees nothing controversial in this proposal for a law on the re-use of agricultural land that is just as anti-constitutional as the Law on Golf Courses because it creates legal inequality, probably because it has not yet been able to read and analyze it closely. It still takes her three years. Although the prime minister is considering repealing the Law on Golf Courses, she does not seem to be at all concerned by Article 8 of this bill amending Article 24, or is not concerned that this article does not change the shameful provision of a valid agricultural land law which, without any explanation, favours investors in golf courses because I quote the investor to exempt from paying a one-time fee for the re-use of agricultural land due to a reduction in the value of agricultural land area as good for the Republic of Croatia in the event of construction of a golf course in a narrow sense. I do not worry that Article 9 of this proposal reduces even 10 times so far the compensation for the re-use of agricultural land, which encourages the destruction of agricultural land as a resource for the future development of Croatia and... Speculation, i.e. opens up a space for corruption when changing spatial plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to make the matter more absurd, the proponent agrees with the decision, the Constitutional Court's decision requiring the modification of excessively liberal fees for the re-use of agricultural land in construction as an alibi for these scandalous changes which further reduce fees for re-use instead of increasing the once-in-a-carrying fee in this proposal so that the investor can pay a fee at the level of the difference in the market price between agricultural and construction land he has further reduced that fee, thereby further jeopardising the constitutional principle of equality before the law. I am stabbed in the eyes and in Article 5, which deletes Article 17 from the applicable law, which ensures compliance with the Nature Protection Act in terms of the availability of pastures and meadows owned by a country located in protected areas of nature. By deleting this article, a message is made that the Nature Protection Act no longer has to be respected. The alarm bell is ringing because of an unmistakable explanation of the urgency of passing this law. I quote: "The proposed changes and additions will improve and speed up privatisation of one of the most valuable natural resources." Where it burns to speed up privatisation of one of the most valuable natural resources of the state. Isn't it clear to the promoters that such an argument smells like corruption? Furthermore, in the introductory part of the law on the assessment of the necessary means to implement the law, it states that no additional means are necessary to implement this law. That's right. It may not be necessary to provide additional resources in the budget, but should the ministry and the government not worry about how much loss and less budget filling will be caused by the adoption of such a law. Whom the State cares for speculative so-called. investors or public interest? It seems unfortunately for speculators land and spatial plans. And in the end, I can only say that I am shocked that before the negotiations with the European Union and that of the famous chapter 23 were closed, the government had released in the procedure such a proposal for a law that directly encourages corruption and opens a huge legal inequality for investors. Such a proposal can only be interpreted so that, despite the parrot’s declaration of European orientation, this government has grown significantly more favourably to party clients, so-called. investors who are in every regulated rule of law, and because of this government, Croatia is not, they call ordinary speculators and predator capitalists.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74104	Thank you. We have 2 corrections and 7 replicas, so first the corrections of incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleague. I listened very carefully to what you said. Otherwise, I deeply respect and appreciate your opinions and attitudes regarding the topics you are dealing with. But I'd come back today as mayor with the fact that I'm a parliamentary representative to remember very ugly, and I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that he's talking about it... to build and operate unscrupulous local sheriffs that allow through their spatial plans the re-use of land, thus encouraging land riots. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's not true. But you should feel very miserable because that local unscrupulous sheriff was elected to Zapresic 8 and a few people who probably didn't say this way when they chose him or me like you said. I'm not talking about myself. I'm here in the Parliament, so I'm thinking politically. But to send such messages to the public at the moment when within the framework of the law that we have changed and given to the executive authority and persons greater obligations and trust, and we know what it means to adopt spatial plans. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end!]] So this is the way and the comment that speaks, in any case, I don't think it's appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74106	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Holly, you have questioned the president's intention to fight and deal with corruption. You still said she actually just wanted to introduce herself like that. That's pretty much what you were saying. I think it's, I don't think, but I know it's an incorrect quote and I'm correcting it this time. I also hope that all these allegations are incorrect when you talk about how this law will lead to more corruption. So I'm not an expert on this law and I just hope that's not the case. If there's any sign of what you were talking about, then of course no one will back that law. On the other hand, that's my conclusion. I'm surprised a woman doesn't give more support to a responsible task. It is, just a little please. So comparing that responsibility and her relationship with everything she's wearing by doing that job with the brooch, so I don't know any elements on the woman's dress is really unacceptable from a woman. And I hope, I hope, because of the emancipation of women in society and Croatia, but also in the world that you will give our prime minister much more support. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74108	Thank you very much. I have to warn everyone, because so far as I'm concerned, everyone has gone red, so please stick to the Rules of Procedure for the duration of the debate. Replica is the first respected representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74109	Thank you. Here's my colleague Holly. You were talking about speculators and the possibility of corruption. I will read as a contribution to your discussion only one part of the Constitutional Court Decision which speaks of agricultural land which reads as follows: "From the very fact that agricultural land is an unrenewable source of the country's obligation to provide it with special protection, protect it from unpredictable free market flows and isolated individual's will." So, unfortunately, this Law leads to exactly the opposite situation of this regulation, which is indicated by the Constitutional Court and gives further incentive to individuals to speculate, or again by the ruling small group of people is allowed to benefit. It's not the first time, but I hope it's one of the last times.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74110	Thank you. Let's move on with the replicas, distinguished representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74111	Collar Holly, in your debate, pointed out that the proposed tenfold reduction in agricultural land re-use fee would be in the legalisation function, i.e. the legislation of agricultural land speculation as one of the most valuable natural, national resources and would open up a large area for corruption. However, this amendment, as proposed, is problematic with another aspect that I would like to point out, so this tenfold reduction in compensation, thus reducing the revenues of the state budget and the budget of the units of local self-government. If the state has already denied its revenue on behalf of economic development, it is its problem, although I honestly do not think that this one measure will contribute to economic recovery since all other measures are not being implemented. However, it is unacceptable to deny such significant incomes to municipalities and cities, especially when their original incomes are drastically reduced precisely because of changes in the Income Taxation Act and when municipalities and cities are as large as mountains. So this proposal in Article 9 is bad and it would be really good to reshape it in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74112	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74113	My colleague Jelash, yes, that is exactly what this is about, and that is why I pointed out in the debate that whatever it may not be necessary for the implementation of this law, additional resources are being provided, the question is raised, and this is why no word has touched on what the loss of the state and the budget will be not only national but also the unit of local self-government because such a law is being passed which multiplely reduces those fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74114	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Holly answered the line to give you the opportunity to answer me even though you deserve a correction of the wrong quote on several occasions and I would say at first the hard words fell, I do not think it should be exhibited here in the Croatian Assembly especially when it comes to articles that are extremely positive. And the article on pasture communities, Article 21, is the result of one-year field work together with all rural associations, local population and space users in protected areas, and this is their proposal because Article 17 was not enforceable because it was unsettled. So this is something that's good and that's positive. And it saddens me that today we have been listening to destructive debates that do not want to be mentioned and what is well done. When talking about Article 9, Article 9 is not an HSS wetlands. As far as I know, no one from the HSS club was involved in writing article 9, and I'm guessing no one at the HDZ club. Here the Proposer is calling for the Constitutional Court's decision. As representatives, we are not allowed to comment on the decisions of the Constitutional Court, although I would be happy to comment on the Constitutional Court's decision not only on this part, but on many other articles of this law that have been abolished as I would like to comment on and when it comes to some of the other laws that we have to vote here for which I consider to be deeply unfair. I personally spoke to a number of HDZ representatives as well as my colleague Kelic, who spoke on behalf of the HSS club, had objections to Article 9, I will say something more in an individual debate about this, but I would like to stress that not everything in life is black and white, there is no need for everything to be solved diversified and bunkered, but our job as a representative is to come together to good laws and at least as far as we are concerned, there was certainly no hidden intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74116	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74117	Thank you, fellow Members, for replicating me and thus giving me the opportunity to respond to your allegations. In particular, Article 17 which deletes this bill states: "The pastures and meadows owned by a state located in protected areas in national parks and parks of nature shall be made available by a public institution in whose area of protection the land concerned is located in accordance with a specific regulation." This specific regulation is the Nature Protection Act which requires such areas to be managed on the basis of a management plan, i.e. rules. E, I think that by eradicating this Article 17 which is the content of Article 5 in principle, it is in principle denying compliance with the Nature Protection Act which is a roof law in this regard for the management of areas that are protected in terms of nature protection and I do not think that such a thing should happen, or that it should be defined in a different way to act in such situations if it was of the interest of the local population. But I don't think this is how you can do it. And when we talk about having to take part in a constructive debate and improve the laws that are ahead of us, I think that this law that we are discussing today is so bad that it is not possible to fix it with amendments and that it would be best to withdraw from the procedure and that we are soon to discuss a whole new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74118	Thank you. We've got a second line. Dear Representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, in your debate, you pointed out, and I fully agree with that, that amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, i.e. amendments to the emergency procedure, are mostly due to this very reason to introduce these articles related to the reuse of agricultural land into building land, i.e. to reduce the compensation prescribed under the existing law and that it is now 10 times smaller. It also means that there is a space for corruption and for speculators, as you stated in your debate. And also what's important in that way is reducing the revenues that the state budget and the budget... local units would have from paying compensation for re-use. If that's really how I'm going to do it here, I have a newspaper article, so in one example, I'm going to see it that way that the terms here are actually about. So, a foreign investor bought 280 thousand square metres of agricultural land here in the Republic of Croatia, reportedly paid 26m euros, an average of 67m euros per square metre. If it meant that the investor would pay for the re-use of the agricultural land in construction because he intends to build here in Croatia and invest he would invest 18.8m euros in the state budget. If he were to pay a re-use now under these amendments to the laws now proposed by the state budget, he would only get 1.8m euros. And so this thesis and the reasoning of the promoter that this is one of the measures of economic recovery, I think it actually falls into the water on this example and that there is nothing from economic recovery because that is the way the budget is going to lose. So, you go to the speculators' hands and again you create fertile soil for corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74120	Thank you. Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic is coming up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74121	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Holly, you have well noticed some things, and I personally wonder if the government's intention is to create land capitalists who would then, through these provisions, by reducing that compensation for re-use 10 times less than it was, therefore, re-create their black liberal capitalist empires, and in fact, this law should not even bear the name of the Agricultural Land Act but the Law on the Restraint of Agricultural Land. Secondly, Article 7 here states that the method of keeping records of changing the purpose of agricultural land is prescribed by the minister. So again, something that has so far belonged to local self-government, the regional self-government is going to decide and prescribe the minister by regulation. And third, actually when it comes to the creation of land, let's say conditional capitalists, where they're so-called. The OPG where the small and medium-sized OPG, Mr. Secretary of State, we have over 150 thousand OPGs in the state of Croatia. Here this law doesn't care about it, and even it says here that it's about rounding up agricultural holdings, small OPG, middle OPG has nothing to do with it, they're here with this completely at a loss. One more thing I wanted to say is that I am running out of time, but that deciding on a competition to which agricultural land will belong under F. on page 8 of Article 16 to decide on a number of members of the agricultural holding or the number of permanent employees, so we know which companies in Croatia that deal with agriculture have a large number of employees and it goes hand in hand to them. I know I'm not, and I'm not declaring what companies they are. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74122	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Let's move on with the replicas, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74123	Thank you. My colleagues Holly not only that as you said this Law was not good but it is also harmful, the biggest corruption is happening and it has happened now, just to buy agricultural land and buy from peasants, very simple and the machinations and management of spatial plans re-scheduled right into construction. And what is now done with this law? Now this corruption and corrupt behavior are being built into the law. So to Sanader and during Sanader we had a situation that corruption was happening outside the law. From Sanader, in several cases, we have evidence that corruption is being built into the law itself. Because what the message is, namely, the HDZ is thinking of this bill, the elections are close, which is what we can offer our HDZ clientele, the factories have long been destroyed, road workers have long since gone, and the money has gone, and there are other winnings and holes deeper than any pit, and what we can now share. Share agricultural land, in what way. Not to buy it, to buy to God's peasants, but they're not buying for themselves, but for speculators of various kinds. But if the state were to function then it could react to this case, and then that office to prevent money laundering that no one knows at which address as a masseous lodge is hidden, and no one knows what its role is and what it is doing, so ask the dog, the dog, the dog, where you can buy that agricultural land from Mr. Money, and the advances were made in the last amendments to this Act when it was abolished, it's such a fuse that the purchase of such land cannot be transferred or sold, or any kind of alienation, within 10 years, so we don't already have and bought on someone else's behalf, and it's built even under privileged conditions, without any pre-determination or payment, and that's the law of corruption. Because the state says people don't do corruption, the state doesn't like competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74124	Dear MPs, if you truly consider what you have said, it is your civic duty to report it to the DORH, so I ask you to report nicely that a law that promotes it is passed. Let's move on with the debate, we're up to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74125	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. We heard from the secretary of state that the application of the Agricultural Land Act has shown a number of obstacles that slow down the process of availability to the state-owned agricultural land through sales, long-term leases but that it prevents and invests in general what Minister Cobankovic also spoke of. That's what this proposal is trying to do, except for that alignment with the Constitutional Court's decision to speed up the very processes that are slow. I will focus my discussion on a few articles of my thinking with certain suggestions and articles 45, 21 and 33. So as regards Article 45, I will say that the projects of raising multi-annual crops mean that, taking into account the regulations of the Service Treaty, they define the deadline for raising them within three years of the day of introduction into possession of the future land user, thus putting the inactive potentials of the Republic of Croatia into a productive agricultural function. The intensities of Article 45 were and were that the purpose of the detained forest land was to be placed under the control of the agency for agricultural land, because it will be carried out by the nature of the contract and which binds all other legal factors in the process, which means the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, the Office for the Land, the Croatian Agricultural Agency and the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. There's space here, we've heard data that out of the estimated 132 thousands and 612 hectares so far only 57%, i.e. 75 thousand and 316 hectares. I would like to point out here that this article is about investments which are significant amounts and the fact that forest ingredients that must be paid in full throughout this three-year period and for which each user has received a invoice with the exact terms of payment. And it is precisely during this period that plantations need to be raised but there is a possibility that control mechanisms, through agricultural, financial and tax inspectors, can clearly demonstrate the success of or the status of project realization as well as the amount of compensation paid in favour of the State and thus prevent any manipulations related to the land concerned. I think that provision is good, of course, with enhanced supervision, which is certainly never enough because it is indeed an extremely valuable resource. Therefore, the intensity was that all current individuals who have signed service contracts and comply with contractual terms and financial commitments still have normal ownership and that agricultural land should be controlled by the Agricultural Land Agency. It's the only way that investors can be insured and that means they can exercise the right to support, and that's not insignificant because their investments are very large. So, it's good that the land that's been brought in is meant to be considered agricultural. The procedure has been granted in spite of the dispute, and the price of investment in the rise of multi-annual plantations is quite high, and these changes should simplify the procedure but also speed up the development of multi-annual plantations. However, there are also those who have received contracts and within the legal deadlines have not raised plantations in very attractive positions along the seashore, and as they stand on the ground now, they already have the feeling that they have reserved areas for another time or other purpose. That's what I'm suggesting over that contract to strengthen inspection supervision and unless things are worth breaking existing contracts. I want to look back at article 21. I have to admit that somehow I'm in doubt whether the pasture community really has to be a cooperative. I am not even sure that it is good that Croatia is initiating the process of establishing a pasture community because I think it is better that the cattlemen themselves organise or agree and that the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture is helping them in all of this, because then there would be no question about the length of this lease that counterpart Chuhnil was talking about. And I want to look back at Article 33, since we have demining capacities in the Republic of Croatia significantly greater than insured appropriations and donations, I believe that they should be activated as best as possible through this programme, but of course the implementation of this Article means that the implementation of this article is in line with the provisions of the Law on humanitarian demining. For reasons of security, both users and civilians and pyrotechnics. I will remind you that there are slightly less than 800 km square in the RH of mine suspected surfaces, and 25% of that area makes agricultural areas more than 190 km square. I would also like to point out on this occasion that in order to be responsible for spending the state budget as much as possible and more responsibly control the definition of mine suspected areas. Because it's not a fixed category. ... according to the procedures of the Croatian Mine Action Centre change. So we have new surfaces involved. I therefore propose that somehow amend paragraph 4 in a way that does not exempt the payment of the lease from up to 40 years, but that the amount of the lease be reduced by the amount of demining costs. Because demining costs aren't fixed either. We can't take a fixed or average price and figure out how much we need the amount. I believe that this way we will not respect the Law on humanitarian demining or the Law on Public Procurement or the Law on Financial Responsibility. I believe there is room here to better define this provision of the article of the law. But for the sake of good changes, I will support this law, but here are some doubts about some of the provisions of the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74126	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74127	Dear colleagues, a year ago, the Secretary of State, with the coordination of the Association of Peasants, this law was approved and there was no common conclusion or agreement with the peasants on the co-ordination of the Association of Peasants. Suddenly after a year, here is the proposal legally resurrected, we would say. Furthermore, you're talking about manipulating the availability of state agricultural land and the inspection control you've been saying that. Manipulations occur before this law is passed, and they are about asking you in the form of questions to ask you these questions. How is it possible that 3 or 4 or 5 members of the same family at the same place of residence have each of their own O.P.G., let's explain it to me, and it happens? Furthermore, how is it that in the composition of the commission are the people who are the closest relatives of those who run for rent or sell or concession of agricultural land? Furthermore, can a regular student participate in the 117 transaction? They're asking farmers, peasants. Furthermore, I have been in many municipalities in Slavonia and here is an example of Nova Kapel, Drenovaci in... where people openly say that it is precisely available to agricultural land that is distributed on a party line. So then a village photographer if he's in HDZ has the right to assign a country even though he doesn't do agriculture at all. The 75-year-old pensioners get 70 acres. I don't know why he'd want him buried better in that country, right? And inspection, when the gentlemen who are now in possession and the head of the agricultural chamber has 900 acres of land so I guess the president is because he has a lot of land, I guess he's the president of the agricultural chamber. And when he didn't have a reference offer, he was getting the incentives neatly, and where was the inspection then? [[Intruder: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74128	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nevenka Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74129	Here I am, in my debate, my colleagues, pointing out that it is important that there are mechanisms of control or through agricultural, financial and tax inspectors, and I stressed that this is never enough for what you're talking about to happen. However, you are talking about failed available programs, not all colleagues failed. We in Zadar, Zadar County have a successful programme of agricultural land availability.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74130	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Let's move on with the replicas, the distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74131	Dear colleagues, when you spoke about pasture communities and Article 21 and the doubts that arise in your thinking, I would like to try to remove these doubts, because if our goal is to put pastures and meadows into operation so that there are no more chicars on them, it means that farmers or cattle farmers of different species, therefore, and those who grow indigenous breeds of horses and cattle in the cow, calf and poultry and beekeeper system, that I do not leave anyone out now, if we want to ensure that they use these pastures, then we must create conditions for that. Our goal, therefore, is to preserve biodiversity, our goal is to keep the peasant who uses these pastures and in some ways maintain them through, to get support. In Article 17 of the Law so far, this was not possible. I'm sorry that some people here talk crazy, and they don't understand the basics of agricultural land policy. But the fact is that we were unable to implement this article in the case of the Lonj field. We had to find a model that would allow farmers to use pastures and meadows to meet these goals to have preserved biodiversity, but also to get support. The only possible model is that the pasture community is registered as a cooperative so that all these goals can be met. In the current article 17, concession approval for the use of pastures and meadows in protected areas for agricultural producers, but unfortunately they could not achieve support for the fact that it is of course not our ultimate goal because if someone guards Croatian space, keeps the Croatian village, deserves support in that part and therefore this is the formulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74132	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74133	I agree with you colleagues because we in the Zadar area of Zadar County have large areas and it is precisely in protected areas of nature that we should put in the proper way and edit, meaning a significant and large part of Velebit and Velebit pastures just put into operation. However, my doubt was whether cooperative is exactly the model by which we can and should do it or if it is another model where they will agree and join together and then solve this problem more permanently than when it is initiated by the Agricultural Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74134	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's time for the distinguished representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74135	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So these amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land are one of the series of amendments that this law has always experienced, as well as the one since 2001 when it was adopted and there have been changes and changes. A new one was adopted in 2008, a large number of changes until then. Normally, these changes were often used in favour of large agricultural economies, some times in favour of the CAPs, depending on which political option was headed by the restoring ministry. Today these changes appear when the prime minister and vice-president of the government are for the economy, these changes should go primarily in favour of potential investors, as well as why we see from all this. However, the adoption of such amendments to the Agriculture Act has always led to some recommendations amongst the opposing options. This is the case this time because a great deal of shouting has been raised and there have been major reactions from I don't know, and there have been some protests in the Square by the associations and to what the opposition requires, and the opposition primarily requires this to go to another reading, or another reading, and that the law is not passed by emergency procedure. As usual, this is rejected, although many are opposed to these changes being made by an emergency procedure. I think one of the reasons I'm stating is that it's changing 58 articles, and the previous law, the whole law has 110 articles, so over 50% of the articles are changing, and then you have a very difficult time in the woods of that score, adding, subtracting, figuring out what they really are and what kind of changes they have, what the final result of these changes will be. That the interest is great for these changes is not by chance exactly because agricultural land is well of general interest, and at the same time Croatia will also be the subject of foreign investors' interest, but also the basis for the payment of support to the European Union based on the country's farmed hectare. Thus, in the next period, the insistence of interested parties in buying, renting or concessions for as many countries as possible will be increasing. The issue of agricultural land certainly stands out as Croatia's biggest problem of agricultural recovery. I think that's what producers and many farmers say that the issue of agriculture is about agricultural land. And what is the state of this agricultural land? According to some indicators, we process a million 34 thousand 540 hectares in 176 thousand 27 economies, or that's an average of 5.9 hectares. Less than 3 hectares handles 107 thousand economies or 89 thousand 70 hectares or an average 0.8 hectares, meaning in 107 thousand economies. From 3 to 20 thousand, 62,000 731 economies process 422 thousand 951 hectares or an average of 6,7 and above 20 hectares, and these are the real producers of 6279 economies processing 522 thousand 525 hectares or an average of 83 hectares. But what is important, in Croatia we have an orange area of 2 million 693 thousand hectares of which 890 thousand hectares are social property and even a million 804 thousand private property. What this suggests is that Croatia was a non-typical country that has been in a socialist bloc for 45 years, and it has not been done or passed into state land like our neighbours in the eastern countries. And normally, when they entered the European Union, they tried very quickly to recover it all, or privatized, which is certainly not as simple an example as it is happening there. Therefore, this argument to pass the law by an urgent procedure in order to prevent the negative consequences that would arise because of the inability to make the state agricultural land available faster, and I have stated how much of it is state agricultural land because the largest part, is twice as private, as well as improving the privatisation of one of the most valuable natural resources, I find unacceptable in this way and normally cannot give my vote for such changes of law. First of all, why? Because these changes are in favour of the reuse of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes, not in the direction of the processing of all areas that we have, but also for the reduction of these insufficient productions, regardless of how we have increased production. We have been away since the 1990s and the production we had in Croatia. One of the grounds for the urgency of amending the law and harmonisation is the compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision. This has already been the subject of speech, related to agricultural land located outside the building area, which will be covered as potentially building after the change in the spatial plan. The basis is certainly a change in the amount of compensation for a change. And right here again, the bill promoter finds an opportunity to reduce the value of the land that has been intended and the current price of the re-use decreases from 50 to 5%, or 100 to 10%. It is precisely the fact that agricultural land is unrenewable and the obligation of the state to give it special protection and to protect it from strange free market flows but also the will of individuals who are now managing them, which are local communities. That's exactly the part. That is why this reduction is certainly not meant to protect agricultural land, but rather to ensure that this re-use of agricultural land goes into non-agricultural areas. The question arises which benefits for those productions and how we will continue some productions such as sugar tails, etc. If that's how we reroute the land, especially the one that's good. Did the proponent who swears to fight corruption ask whether such a drastic reduction of re-use fees would lead to a speculative phenomenon of cheap ransom, lobbying, to be brought into construction land overnight and thus determined to make certain incomes. For the production of food and its needs for the state, it is quickly forgotten, and only the conclusion remains that our production is getting smaller and smaller. The state of this is not, this country does not even matter that income in the state and local budget also seems to be increasing, but it seems to be opening up space for them to reduce, but the same space for bribery and corruption. Proposer, I still have to mention this, he didn't take advantage of the opportunity to wipe out the exception of not paying for the golf course agricultural land. It is the most dissatisfaction among people that this Golf Act is likely to be withdrawn, or withdrawn from its application. For all these reasons, I feel it is necessary to leave the amount of such compensation. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end!]] Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74136	Thank you. We have two replicas. First distinguished representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74137	Thank you. Comrade Bodakosh, you said that this law, that this is actually one in a series of amendments to the law. I would say that this is a pre-election amendment to the law and that, in fact, we in Parliament today, or not just today, but in this next period we are passing and we are going to pass laws that are related to the European Union and pre-election laws that may be those that are raising to a group, let's say I don't know a reduction in the contribution, i.e. a reduction in healthcare now from 15 to 10 kuna. Or those who, for example, will please one smaller group of people. One of the arguments that could be heard today is that this Law is being passed because to improve the usability of agricultural land that now stands unprocessed. However, I think it would be better if this Law did not go into proceedings at all or voted precisely because it would lead to the unprocessed land today, but it is also worth potential for the future of Croatia when it finally comes to the head of a government that will know about this land. So, great value, and once it turns into building land then there's no going back.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74138	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74139	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues Borzan, exactly what you've been saying is that I don't say it outrightly any changes, and especially when we have 110 articles 58 we're changing, they're certainly trying to get something inserted, which is certainly not useful for agricultural producers, and also for people who deal with this problem. Just what I said, I think it's a question of potential investors. So will these investments be cheaper if we lower this agricultural land to 10% and 5%, respectively, the value of the re-use. Will that investment be cheaper or not? Please, that's what I'd like to hear where it is, because today the Deputy Prime Minister also spoke about how it's the main prerequisite for certain investments, that is, to be realised as such. Whether these potential investors would be direct buyers of that land and payment and re-use, or, as any case, certain people would buy who knew where some route would go, where something would be built and then sold as such. Therefore, this is only one way to reduce this value of land and reduce agricultural production at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74140	Thank you. We have another replica of the distinguished representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bodakoš, you were well aware in your debate that there is a possibility that precisely and because of these changes to the laws where this land is being reused agriculturally into construction, that there is a possibility that there will not be enough area to sow, you said, for example, for planting sugar beet, or you asked what will happen to agriculture when Croatia enters the European Union. Since I come means from Virovitica-Podravska County, which is known among other things for the production of sugar. So we have a sugar factory called Viro I must have the Croatian Government, or the Ministry closed Chapter 11. – Agriculture and rural development, and just by closing that chapter, it will happen that only 2 will remain in Croatia from 3 sugar trees. Namely, the quotas set by the EU are far below the potential of our sugars, since in the Republic of Croatia, these 3 sugars are produced annually by about 300 tonnes of sugar, and from our export quota that we have received are about 200 thousand tonnes. Which means there'll be no more work for one sugarcane in the Republic of Croatia. Those are the words that the president of the "Viro" administration said, and I see that Mr. Secretary of State is climate with his head, so those are the words of people who are presidents of the management of these companies, who know what they're saying. Which means that the negotiating team that led those negotiations did not do a good job because the quotas are determined means on the basis of the results of years of consumption, both industrial and private. Therefore, the person who presented the data from Croatia obviously did not present them well, and there is a real legitimate concern that one sugar shop will have to be shut down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74142	Replication response, Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74143	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleagues, Nado, you mentioned this part about sugar, about production, about exports. I purposely said the question of land which is clearly quality and which we have in sufficient quantities to sow sugar tail in Croatia. But what's going on? Sugars, so I think all three sugars have cooperatives and cooperatives and they sow sugar tails in Hungary, Vojvodina. What's that about? For what? Is it because we do not have enough land or that land that should be and which is very high quality and that we have in sufficient quantities in eastern Croatia, whether this land will also be re-purposed from that land, and that at the same time we will be left without it and that our sugars are shining sugar tails in Hungary, or Vojvodina, in our neighbouring countries. Normally, the safety of that production cannot be achieved in this way, and the issue and competitiveness of such a sugar tail which should be driven from further areas. Because normally that sugar tail as the production needed for sugars that should be sown around these sugars. Well, that's why there were sugars in Osijek, in County, there used to be a white monastery, now in Virovitica. Therefore, let us not be lightly freed and re-purposed quality areas of agricultural land into non-agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74144	Mr. Representative Vlatko Podnar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's my colleague Bodakosh mentioned a little forest, and apparently this is going to be the forest of regulations, and I'm afraid of the wrinkles of the law. I'm saying this for a simple reason because some colleagues like to say that it's grown up with a chic, and my theme is just going to be that we call it chicars, but again I'm saying they're not chicars, but they're the initial stages of the forest and the way it's then managed by that agricultural land. When we look at the plain and arranged agricultural areas is not a problem and is not at all the subject of the debate, it is not the subject of this debate, but it is precisely the mountainous and mountainous areas where, as a result of the abandoned and village areas, and also the abandoned agricultural areas of the state land are available in a way that the municipality, i.e. the unit of local self-government, develops a management programme, asks Croatian forests to get out of Katastra, ornanica, and that Croatian forests are given assurance that the mentioned agricultural land, or the mentioned water particles, are based on management, or whether they are located in the forest-economic base of the area and are mostly not located. For a simple reason, because it is agricultural land and was not included in forest-economic bases, i.e. the basic management of economic units. If it happens to be driven to the Catastro forest, it is required to repurpose the culture, or to align it with the actual state. I'll tell you from experience to say in the pond area of the municipality of Zdenci, which has existed since 1905, it's still being run in Catastro, like it's a forest. On the basis of which Croatia's forests should issue a conviction when it is no longer a forest in nature, it can also be seen that the orthophoto of the video is not a forest, but a farm area, or pond, has been translated. This is a simple question because, in accordance with Article 41 of the applicable law, the introduction into the possession of a lawyer, a geodesy and agronomist. In what way? The way he says it, it's right there, and here you go. But do they also warn the geodetic, or catastrian service to really change and bring the situation into the catastros such a real state that in the area of some catastrian municipality or leave it in a way so well you're in possession, you're now doing what you want, and then in the '90s, when the first lease of land, this happened that individuals were getting area leased, cut cherries that grew and then left it. Unfortunately, I am afraid that this situation is still being detained today for the simple reason that a large business has now started in certain municipalities, and on these surfaces a lease is being awarded, and then not to buy the tractors for plowing and sowing, or for feeding cattle, but to buy logs for wood. Well, it's becoming a very good and lucrative business. Because here you sell wood, it is not black because Croatian forests have to issue an escort, i.e. to carry out traffic with these trees through the Advisory Forest Service, but again the question is whether the part that was brought in is supposed to be pasture, whether it will really be brought in or will happen again that in 10 years we have called the Shikara, again I'm saying that it is not a shakara but are already finished forests, and unfortunately we don't have a law on the use of biomass, so that we know that they are, to calculate whether it's better to have it as a biomass or to have it as some pasture surfaces that serve private people to get a little rich in this way. The other thing is to translate the forest into agricultural land. 2005, 6. The government passed the regulation and said that Croatian forests must single out areas that will be refurbished to agricultural land. Looking at the aspect of joining the European Union, the necessary areas for raising cultures and multi-annual plantations and any agricultural, any vineyards, any olive groves, etc. It's not that bad, but what happened was that it simply stopped the transport of agricultural land for that purpose. So there was a huge amount of money, and there was a rock, and then these olive trees went up, and then there was a cry, so, you know, there's something we should start building there now. And then you, in this forest law, Article 45, we accept that. And you give units of local self-government to use, i.e. it will be included in the program. State land, I don't mind that units of local self-government include but it is a danger that what my colleagues said about changing spatial plans and that this olive with a view of the sea or the blue one with a view to the wave does not suddenly get building land, and it is 5 thousand and 700 hectares. Which can suddenly cross into building land. Now is it all in the interest of the Republic of Croatia I'm not sure. The other thing is the article in 44 that I've given amendments to, what's a multi-year-old plant? Multiannual vegetation can be a forest, but then it's known by the Forests Act, which is a forest, and multi-year-old plants can be reeds and shrubs. It's a multi-annual plant, so I've given the amendment to change what's grown up in the forest to become forest land and it can't be anymore, I've been slightly unscheduled by this agricultural land within the meaning of Article 3. The laws that have been grown by years of growth other than agricultural land P1, P2 and mined and by culture and area are defined as forest land, it is not defined as forest land, because in culture it says that it is an Oranica, an orchard, a vineyard, and I don't know what not, it is in nature then forest and forest land. So I also gave these amendments hope that you will accept it for the third reading and change, and thus repair the entire Law and at least get it then pure writing because in this 58-change and supplemental forest and those 110-day farmers, I'm afraid that when they read what it means, they won't simply understand what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74146	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll join those colleagues who wonder why emergency procedures. You explained there would be a faster availability for agricultural land. That is true, it will be sold faster, however, which guarantees that agricultural production will improve. The previous large fees were still one way to keep it, and in one way it could strengthen production, in this way I don't think it's going to be possible to achieve it. I also believe that this is an open opportunity to make money to speculators who bought and bought agricultural land, will continue to seek re-use into construction and can also re-sell. I would also point out that lately more and more decisions contribute to the losses of local budgets that we have heard in previous discussions and especially when we are looking at the exemption of investors in golf when changing agricultural land into building land. When we look in the Republic of Croatia at 89 golf courses are planned, when you look at the average golf course is over 1000 hectares, we actually see how much it is possible to lose if you naturally compensate for re-use if you are not paid. I believe that the exemption from compensation should still go towards the interests of the local community. And we also know that the obligation to protect agricultural land is good, but this law is certain that it cannot be achieved. Therefore, my opinion that in all acquisitions of the right to build payment obligations should be the same, so re-purpose should be paid and so should the golfer they must share the fate of other investors, other investors and I wonder what golf is anyway. It is not defined until the end whether it is golfing as a playground or whether it is all that goes with golfing or all that land that belongs to that project. So, I repeat, there are major damages to local budgets, and that is why I am against the exemption from payment obligations in obtaining the right to build. Agricultural land should all protect against very strange market flows from speculative sales, because the practice is cheap buy, wait, lobby, convert, pay, unfortunately bribe, etc. So the agricultural land is of great interest to the subject of interest and foreign investors, the subject of the interest of shoppers because whoever wants to come in that way finds the channels as they will. For years, farmers or agrarian experts have warned precisely about the problem that as many as 6 to 8 acres per day to end up in construction areas. And exactly what I was saying at the outset, a high tax still maintained that no such things would happen in the construction zones. In this way, when the compensation that investors are obliged to pay in the state budget for re-use is drastically broken down, I believe that this way we cannot protect agriculture in any way. Moreover, the prices of agricultural land in Croatia are extremely favourable, and this is the interest I mentioned earlier than many who want to buy it as much as possible today. As far as foreigners are concerned, I mentioned briefly but we have cases in which through various funds, offices buy this agricultural land and actually wait for a suitable moment when they can re-use it or build it on such a land. I think that protective intentions, not opinions alone, but I can see that there is no protective intentions and precisely because this is also the way to destroy a very valuable resource such as agricultural land. So practice repeats it, buys cheap, rescheduled, doesn't even pay for certain categories and then wait. The wait is earned by waiting, by reselling. Therefore, this law certainly enables speculators to do so. Look, I think someone in the discussion mentioned selling land on Peljesac today, right around the bridge. 5 million square meters, the biggest parcel, and I don't know who can buy it with big interest in recession time, spend tens of millions of euros buying ice, wait. Are those psychics? Recently in this House we were talking about the problem of the gray economy, maybe we'll call this a visionary economy. I think both colleagues and colleagues think that this law is a law of speculation, that the reduction of this amount is a reduction in land re-use fees that will negatively affect local budgets and the law we're talking about is a law on agricultural land, but I don't think there's anywhere to protect that agricultural land. In addition, the Ministry held from January 2011 that this law is controversial. And that's why colleagues and colleagues can't accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74148	Thank you. Replica. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74149	The chairman but here we still have something to clarify and I'm glad because it's already been said two or three times. When is the moment when land is refurbished from agricultural to construction? At what point? At the moment of issuing a building permit, which means that today in my Zapresic building area, 30% of the land is agricultural, because agricultural land is in the catastrus and at the moment of the construction permit being issued becomes building land. What does that mean? In that country, then Turk and the city will get 100 hectares of 100 million municipal contributions, I speak only because of the width we understand. Croatia is responsible for 60 million water contributions and for other fees. So, we misjudge the issue of agricultural land and its purposes, because, in addition, I, with my spatial plan and GUP, determine when and where and where and what amount of this building land that can be built in accordance with the law, and I currently have the procedure to build 5 hectares of land for 5 years, and nothing is done on it, to change the new spatial plan with the exit from the building land outside and, as such, there will be no more possible construction or will force the investor to build. So here we're talking about the way that I act and pass laws doesn't mean anything, but the moment when you go to work building permits. Otherwise, it is a new imposition which imposes new costs at the time of construction as such on those to whom they invest and independently of resale. And I would be happy to have this law ground these 30% of the land that is built but in the catastrophe agricultural because this would mean new millions in my city budget, new investments, promotion of construction and new employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74150	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74151	Thank you very much. My colleague, if you listened very carefully to me, I was talking about the obligation to pay for the right to build, that's true, but I mentioned golf investors, and that's what I was just saying about, that they should be in the same position as other investors, or in that case, I was wondering what golf means? Is it those hectares that they are or is it all expensive around here? That's what I was talking about. And I understand when it comes to paying, of course, by obtaining the right to build. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74152	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74153	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So today we are also discussing a strategic law or a strategic good law that is land. We have already discussed similar laws on several occasions, the Constitutional Court has had its comments. However, it is amazing that we are passing this law by an urgent procedure, which has also joined those 85% of the laws that this House has passed in an emergency procedure on the current tape. Unfortunately, this urgency is due to the fact that the laws are not formally dressed, although they are creamy because it is possible that in the laws that we adopt by emergency procedures we refer to non-existent institutions, agencies, etc. On the other hand, in some cases, the government changes both physical principles and constants, but good. Even the most well-intentioned amendments are not accepted because they come from the opposition ranks. But this is simply one creamy law, since one institution here is called in three ways in the law itself. Furthermore, it includes this famous golf course, and then by ensuring the position of investors in the golf course through this law, it is easy to let the public know that the Golf Act itself may be abolished. So, that fact itself points to one of the corrupt potentials of this law, which on the other hand is not referred to by the crucial problems such as the terror of a neighbor who will not deprive the neighboring plot, which is either a chicare or some sort of string or corn that is who knows when the defense is, so it's full of snow and the like, and you can't force a neighbor to bring it into some order that wouldn't be a distraction to the adjacent particles. Furthermore, the collateral sacrifice of this law is also the former land communities and also the land cooperatives in which people once entered their property, and they used them, and in the mid-1990s, it was state-owned and finally a few years ago, both the state and the grantarians signed up for land cooperatives, regardless of what people mainly continued to use the country without knowing what was going on, since they were educated and uninformed by the moss. This law therefore enables the country to rent or sell, thus terminating the continuity of enjoyment and disabling any possibility that, in fact, users, owners, and former owners, through lawsuits, prove their maturity and return to their country. One of the paradoxical situations related to this law is also a fact, but someone mentioned in the previous debate, that the Ministry of Administration also made an objection to this law, and although Mr. Minister later said that the law was in line with the Ministry of Administration that may be a fact. But it is also a fact that the objection of the Ministry of Administration regarding an article amending Article 25 of the basic law states: in this article and this bill amending Article 25 of the basic law, we oppose the change in the amount of compensation, and we believe that this opens up the possibility of profit to speculators who bought land as agricultural land, and after the entry into force of this law will require the re-use of agricultural land. And when we look at the opinion of the Ministry of Administration that mentions these 50 per 500 percentages, 10 etc., it's all the same as the current bill. Therefore, it may even be in line with the Ministry of Administration but not in a way that the article has been changed but I imagine that Minister Mlakar has given up his own opinion under external influence. Furthermore, this law also calls into question the adherence to conventions signed by the Republic of Croatia regarding the protection of nature, and there is no assessment of the situation, there is no word on this segment that the MPs may possibly understand that this is not the case. A few thousand years ago, Chinese General Sun Tzu said in "The Art of War" that the country is strategically well and I really don't understand why the Republic of Croatia in the 21st century is quite lightly about its basic good i.e. He does not care about his own territory, why he does not prefer to give in a long-term lease of land rather than prefer the sale and institutionalise corruption by putting golfes in this law as well. So the question is why, let's say, in this law, you didn't include pixelation both there and pixelation needs a certain area of land or some other sports that are also needed as basketball, football, synchronic swimming and chess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74154	Checkmate. Two replicas. First Mrs. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. When you spoke about unprocessed private agricultural land, you actually encouraged me to reply because these are also articles that I mentioned, which unfortunately the Constitutional Court abolished. In particular, the area of Banovina that I trust is known to be threatened by irresponsible individuals who do not live in the area but are owners of private agricultural land. On that land today, there's a mammal growing. What is much worse and much more dangerous is that such uncultified land has an impact on neighbouring parcels and reduces the value of these neighbouring parcels, people who have decided to live there and deal with agriculture. So it happens that farmers who would like to round up their possessions are not able, and private owners who don't care about their land anyway don't care about it. For this reason, I think that the Agricultural Land Act offered good solutions in this regard because it set up good mechanisms to actually make irresponsible private owners responsible individuals and how to place this private land that is not in function, which has grown, which poses a danger to neighbouring parcels into office. Unfortunately, these articles are out of force. And I wish we had better solutions here today if they exist or have a better quality but let's talk about it. I would not agree with you in the part where you mentioned that the legislator did not take care of the strategic documents and interests of nature protection because the national programme for the conservation of the original and protected breeds of animals and the Directives in the field of nature protection and all of this overlaps with the interests of farmers. It is pictured in article 21 through the pasture communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74156	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74157	My God, what I'm adding to your replica is that it really is the terror of neighbors in some cases and intolerable from fire to the spread of vermin, plant diseases, etc. And it's really a shame that you ignored these articles of the law that you didn't offer any other solutions either through bigger taxes or in some way. It is simply the state that must defend itself against the irresponsible owners of the country. And that's why I suggest, like many speakers before me, that you put the law in more reading. At the end of the procedure, you can do this week after week and once offer a complete solution that would cover all these problems that we heard about in the debate. As far as this part of nature protection is concerned, I only relativated and said that in the assessment of the situation it is not spoken of, and that is absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74158	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74159	Thank you very much. First, I'd like to remind you of how this law was passed. He was brought along with Branimir Glavas' assistance. He made a quorum that this law could be passed at all, a convicted war criminal. War crime is certainly a crime, but it's also an act of shame. It was almost equally embarrassing to do quorum in passing such a law. We didn't want to stay in that vote, we didn't want to do the quorum, we left the assembly and announced a request for constitutional protection. The others did it. And the Constitutional Court reacted. He has abolished a number of provisions of this law. In the case of amendments to the law, we have here the opinion of the Ministry of Administration since 14 January 2011 signed by Minister Mlakar. What does the Ministry of Administration and Minister Mlakar say? We object to the passing of this law by emergency procedure. What else does Minister Mlakar say? We object to changing the amount of compensation to determine the purpose change of agricultural land from 50 to 5%, from 100 to 10%, and from 5 to 1%, respectively. We believe that this opens up the possibility of making money to speculators who bought land as agricultural land, and after the entry into force of this Act will require the re-use of agricultural land. That's what Minister Mlakar thinks rightly. But it doesn't mean anything to the government. The government obviously has different motives and better reasons than those mentioned in the Department of Administration's opinion. That this law is all right, that everything is good in it, but that there is still Article 9 of this Law should be rejected. Because such a law, Article 9 is corruptly encouraged. He encourages corruption. How's the modus operandi? Simple, but how simple and efficient. Agricultural land costs 10 euros. So when the re-use fee was 100%, then it's not 10. It's 20 euros. But when it's re-purposed, then it's worth 200 Euros per square. Now even it's shrinking, so if 10 is 10% to that is one, it means 11 euros and it's going to be worth 200 again. So, even this profit has not been enough for anyone so far, it suggests the law to make these speculators money and increase. It is called for to be particularly cynical of the decision of the Constitutional Court that abolished this article. So let's see what the Constitutional Court says, why did he cancel that article? The Constitutional Court says: "From the very fact that agricultural land is a non-renewable source of the obligation of the state to give it special protection and to protect it from unpredictable free market flows and isolated individual will. The Constitutional Court therefore thought that the previous provision was too liberal and that it should be served because agricultural land should be protected. And the Government uses the Constitutional Court's opinion to reduce the fee and make the speculators even more profitable. It's government logic. What's the government's explanation? According to the government, law enforcement in practice has shown that there are a number of obstacles that challenge the process of availability through sales, leases and long-term leases to agricultural land owned by the state. So the government thinks not enough of it sold, it should sell more. Now, whether to sell more agricultural land for agricultural purposes, which would be fine, or sell as much agricultural land as possible to re-use it with as little compensation as possible to build on it, so that it could be earned. Obviously, this second article of Article 9 would not have been or would have been different, so it would have been about this way, when someone bought agricultural land and the re-purpose would have paid the fee in the amount of the difference from the price they paid to the price when it was re-purposed. So no speculation will be worth it. But it's not the government's interest. The government's interest is to please the speculators. And why the emergency procedure now? And apparently someone in the government is in a hurry to get a little bit more of an election, to make a little more use of it. So there are no two readings, let's get this law passed as quickly as possible because it's pretty clear who decides to re-apply. State-owned. So he knows what he will repurpose, which agricultural land will be repurposed, he knows. Well, the government knows that because it's up to the government to decide. Well, since he already knows which agricultural land will be re-scheduled, which prevents government members or connected persons from buying such land as agricultural land for 10 euros, to re-sell and then sell it for 200 or re-scheduling it to the investor who bought it for 10 euros, and the investor rewards them richly. It's a modus operandi, that's how it works. This all of Croatia knows that this is how it is done and that the land's repurposes are filled with wealth. And now it's not enough that they've swallowed up the wealth, but these treasures still have to increase a little bit, and the accumulation of wealth is a little bit easier. This is Article 9. Because this law, but deeply corrupt, is because it promotes corruption, which is the source of corruption, which is the legalisation of corruption, which destroys agricultural land as a agricultural land and encourages its transfer to the construction law should be refused. I have no illusions that anyone from the government will hear these words of my own, I have no illusions that they will listen to civil society associations, I have no illusions that they will listen to the voice of common sense, I have no illusions that in this case they will react patriotically, patriotically, they will react exclusively out of their own loving interest, of corrupt interest. Orders should be made in this country, and order will be made after the elections in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74160	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Branko Boxti.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74161	Thank you. You told your colleague, Stazic, that the government knows what state land will be redeployed. I wish you'd said in this assembly that's the land, in which position you're in. All afternoon you laminate in a way as if every day agricultural land is being converted into construction land. Since I'm assuming you've never worked in your practice or made any spatial plans then you perform as you perform. So, the unit of local or regional self-government brings a spatial plan and the basis of a spatial plan includes a certain land in building land. Certain ministries agree on a spatial plan. The public knows and is directed to all of this. I don't know about any such example so far that something like that happened. And we talk about it like every day in every community something like that happens. It's just not true. ... Oh, no, no, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74162	Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74163	Here we have passed the Constitution, a special law that will sanction everything that has happened in conversion and privatisation. The debates are great about whether it will be possible to sanction and cover all of this. And as the debates run, these laws come to our table. Worse than the ones that were for the factories, worse. Because the factory can build a new one, but when this whole farm sale thing happens to our most valuable resource, it's over, because it can only be done once and it's over. That's why your colleague's message that we're going to correct this law is my message and even bigger, so those provisions that apply to this will also apply to this. And it's a message to those who behave according to this law that they intend to do a dead end because they'll have to pay it all back because this is a shameless law, a law of kidnapping in front of our eyes. And by principle, as you have well noticed, so the government allows speculators. Well, then he doesn't do it because he likes speculators, but what he does by the principle of half a drink, he gives half a stick. Of course! So, there's a little something left. So, instead of protecting that most valuable resource of ours, it made it difficult to re-purpose such possibilities, so we remember how many years it was, how much it had to pay for the re-use of such land, the tenfold value of some times ago. And now here's what's been made possible, now in this way not only enables but stimulates it to do so. And why is that? Because this is all that's left. So this is an example of the law that the government is proposing, the majority of parliament brings not for their citizens but for the damage against their citizens. And a government that makes such laws is a harmful government. The government must pass laws for citizens, not against them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74164	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74165	My colleagues Ingrid's time is running out and elections are getting closer and it's obvious there's been a panic. Grab what else you can grab until the citizens have replaced you, and that's why this law is being proposed, and that's why it's proposed by emergency procedure. The only thing we can promise citizens is that this power will change, and it will come back with a tight interest on every dime they've stolen by this law and by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74166	Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74167	When the Government announces that the adoption of the Law on Agricultural Land or its amendments will solve the issues of economic development or investment, then something is wrong at the outset. If we deal with such a crucial issue with this Act and we intend to solve the problem that Croatia is an unattractive country for investors, then we do not understand the elemental things. The agricultural land law should be one of three key laws defining the direction of agricultural development as strategic activities in each country that has aman two pots for flowers, let alone as much agricultural and fertile land as Croatia. The second thing is that this approach to addressing the problem of available agricultural land only testifies that the government, i.e. this country, does not have an over-the-counter concept of agricultural development. I will dare say as long as Croatian agriculture is run by HSS and HDZ will not even happen. Because I didn't pull it out of my finger, it's not my political flossula, it's not me being charged in HNS HSU to tell you because you're political opponents, but it's a fact, you've been running Croatian agriculture for 20 full years, and whatever happened in it happened because you wanted to and suggested it. And therefore you have complete responsibility for everything that has happened and what has happened and which unfortunately could never have happened in Croatia's agriculture. There are a number of remarks that came from their own house, in private talks representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community are disgusted over certain elements of this proposal, and they do not understand how it is possible that this happened to the Croatian Parliament. You can laugh and I know that party discipline will do its part but there will already be opportunities to correct this injustice. I'm just afraid my colleague Stazic said that he'll be holding out at the last minute and that he won't be able to prevent it, but thank God that kind of rock doesn't get old, and I guess if someone came up with a relatively short time to make use of it, I hope they'll soon see a trail of each one soon. And so far, we've been witnessing how they've been rampaging in agricultural land, we've been witnessing who they are, who took all the incentives on farm land that they didn't even process. We witnessed the robbery of state money and in Kusanac, which I mention in this House for 15 times where agricultural land was taken into short-term rent, and long-term cultures were planted, so millions of compensations were paid because someone had privileged information where the hub would be on the highway. That's what they're called. The famous virtual orchards in the household. Not only that is a whole series of cases that say how and how farmers of agricultural land and amongst us there are those who are renters of state agricultural land and how much they pay for it, whether they pay for it, the newspapers write about it. The papers write about it. The Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on Golf are two dares to say, the most compromise laws we have passed in this parliamentary term. For those who cooked darkness, two laws carry a heavy burden on them and says the prime minister two days ago we will abolish the Golf Act, it is now clear why, now from this proposal, it is clear and why. Two are the basic problems I'd like to get up against here. First and foremost, which wants to legalize the robbery done in 1947, I will now read to you what the Croatian Community of Land Communities has sent to the Croatian public as a protest today. They say: "we oppose the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land because of its unequivocally intensities that agricultural land, which was mostly taken away from our ancestors in 47 years without the right to compensation, so far and according to the legal proposal from now on, is even more cynical and unscrupulous, tycoon and preferential sale. We are reminded that in 1947 we were taken from more than 250 thousand hectares of agricultural land and only 63 thousand and 116 hectares are now scheduled for return and other purposes. For sale, it predicts 223 thousand hectares and for the lease at 50 years, 263,000 hectares so stolen from us, to sell to the tycoons so that they shouldn't be returned to us, is that not faceless?" Yesterday there was a session here under this vault in Little Council about the problem of the return of property to the land communities. Three constituency committees, or some of those three constituency committees, have heard about this problem that we inherit and which we do not yet have political courage, and if you want the very wisdom of the people, and certainly solve the responsibilities by finally returning it because it has been kidnapped. And whoever buys one square of the kidnapped land, let them know that he bought it. And another thing, about this theme about land communities, about how 400 thousand people in Croatia today have the right to be authorized by the land communities from Pazin to Ilock and all the way down to Gračac are depressed and how they are eyelessly robbed by what their grandfathers have enjoyed for centuries. Some 800 years, and today they're told that their right wasn't real, that it wasn't property law. Is there any other limit to being insolent? And another thing I want to say besides this in the land community is this wisdom around the pasture communities. Last year, at this time, the administrative council of Lonjsko polje announced a single contest calling for those who want to feed the cattle on the surfaces of Lonjsko polje, nature park. Getting the circumstances the contest was announced so that no one could see it but just some. But it happened that someone opened the door and realized that there was an ad board behind the door, so that someone who had seen it had declared it all over the Lonj field, and when eventually several hundred farmers came forward, then they said, "Puj dot no more, the contest cancels out, we have no criteria, we can't, we're going to go to some new model." And that's the model that serves us here as the euphemism behind which the HSS stands just so that it doesn't have to be able to solve the problem it has promised to the owners and the land communities' authorities. Since 1992, he's been pulling them by the nose, since 2002, promising to resolve the issue, and now as a coward's egg, he's been offering them pasture communities here as some kind of solution to sublime it. It's a shame. If we've had that too, there's too many of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74168	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mrs. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74169	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. All that Mr. Bues said could be answered, look who's talking. And that's why I didn't think to answer but really so many incorrect allegations, I'm going to look back on this last one where he talks about pasture communities as cowards' eggs. So, fellow Beus is quite clear from your political debate that you did not read this law because if you did, you might then quote certain articles of the law and know what it says. Your goal is to actually defuse everything this government is doing, it's your right, you're an opposition and of course you're fighting by all means to point out that this government is not on the line that you represent. But pasture communities are a good project. It is the only project that can put meadows and pastures into operation in specially protected areas, and in a way that can be functional, that cattle can be fed there, that biodiversity is preserved and that people get support for it. I believe that colleague Roksandić will answer you to the part where you tell lies about some competitions in Nature Park Lonjsko polje because you have told a series of nebuloses that have nothing to do with the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74170	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm about to get a hold of my colleague, Petyr. You really don't know what you're talking about when you mentioned some so-called Beus. competitions. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74172	So what is it? It's a critical speech. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74173	Please, I can continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74174	... Calm down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a rhetorical figure not that offensive. Your colleague told me today when I chaired the Committee on the Constitution session that I don't know what I'm talking about. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, but I encouraged her to continue her freedom of speech. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a rhetorical figure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74175	This way, in the style of freedom of speech, Mr. Vice President, it's incorrect because he doesn't know what his colleague Beus is saying when he said that the Nature Park Institute Lonjsko Polje has opened a tender so that no one can see him and that no one knows. If you had read the law of the current law of Article 17, then you would have seen that it is here that the pastures and meadows owned by the state located in protected areas of nature parks are also available in the national parks of nature by a public institution whose area of protection is the land concerned, that I do not read further and do not waste time. Then you would see that the administrative council according to that article and the Ministry of Culture which otherwise cares and the regulation of the Ministry of Culture which otherwise cares about protected parts of nature has issued a public call for concession for pasture within its protected area, publicly transparent. And normally all the people who live and who are interested in the pasture in the area came forward. All according to the regulation brought by the Ministry of Culture because it also cares about protected parts of nature. And it's incorrect that it was nontransparent, not public.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74176	Okay. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74177	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Beus, I could agree with you that this law is a possible substitute for the abolition of the Golf Law, and indeed today it is much clearer why the prime minister announced it suddenly as thunder from the blue sky. What disgusts me is the fact that we're an irresponsible society that doesn't want to learn from its collective memory. And given the circumstances that you have included me in dealing with land communities and forest communities, I think that this people, in these areas, could manage better through land and forest communities agricultural and forest land and pastures, than they would know how to manage this law that leaves so much space for malversion. It is very indicative that in Gorski Kotar while forest communities were operating that there were 50,000 inhabitants, there are fewer than 25,000 inhabitants living in that same area today with a tendency to further fall. What does that mean? If it is not something that we as responsible politicians, as the largest representative and legislative body in the Republic of Croatia should imagine and go back and go through our memory and say what was good in our history and what was good at building new systems, then I don't know what more than that might decide to think about where we were going.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74178	If you lift the tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74179	Someone took it from me. Looks like they're trying to disable me in communication. ... /The noise in the hall./... Here's a colleague of the HDZ spokeswoman.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74180	See how good HDZ is, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74181	Oh, great, great, you're taking him home.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74182	It's something to be appreciated.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74183	A colleague of Hrelj, you mention the communities that worked in the mountainous parts of Croatia. I will only remind you that the land communities in the Gorski Kotar were the ones that electrified the Gorski Kotar, that many land communities built public buildings from their incomes, from churches to hospitals, ambulances, arms stations, municipality headquarters, schools, etc. because they had feelings for their own local community. It has nothing to do with what's being proposed here today. And this awareness-washing through the pasture communities and declaring them a good solution, it is enough to look at proposals that completely exclude the Institute of Public Competition, so you will see how the pasture communities will actually be founded, with whose help, or on whose initiative. There's no HSS there, of course, in the Chamber of Agriculture, right? Then which role will the ministries play in the process and which will ultimately be allocated to the pasture communities. And in order to be complete, it is proposed that only one pasture community can be established on the territory of one unit of local self-government, which is therefore cities and municipalities where there are 40 and 50 local committees, so at least so many villages, villages and neighborhoods. And now it is so generous to establish a pasture community. Well, all the honours of the HSS are broad hands when it comes to the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74184	Care should be taken with special care and care for pasture communities. Mr. Representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74185	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The current implementation of the current law has recognised certain difficulties as a result of uncertainty or insufficiently clear formulations of certain provisions of this law. Furthermore, certain issues related to the availability of agricultural land in the applicable law were not prescribed, and this was removed from these amendments. In particular, the amendments to the provisions of the law laying down the procedures or criteria for determining the right of the championship in tendering for the lease, sale and long-term lease of agricultural land owned by the state which is now significantly supplemented and elaborated, should contribute to the faster, easier, more objective and fair choice of the most favourable bidder in those tenders. Since 223673 hectares of state land for sale were indeed sold only slightly more than 50,000 hectares or 25%, 99,000 hectares or 70% planned were leased, and 75000 hectares or just 57% planned for a long time. It is obvious that some changes need to be introduced in order to complete the implementation of the state-owned land programmes, since it is in the public interest not at all necessary for agricultural land to remain unprocessed. In particular, I find it important to improve the fact that the criteria for the determination of the most favourable bidder have been taken into account for the rights of farmers whose agriculture is a fundamental activity. I also consider important amendments relating to the important simplification of the agricultural land lending procedure in the long-term lease for ponds that are prescribed to solve land and water use issues with one contract, which is an unquestionably important improvement in relation to previous legal solutions and the fact that the issue of ponds has not been sufficiently addressed so far. One of the measures that should contribute to better exploitation of agricultural land in Croatia is the introduction of common pastures as a form of land exploitation owned by the state. Since the use and maintenance of pastures is less demanding than most other forms of land exploitation is as much to expect that a part of the country's state-owned property that has not been interesting to the tenants so far will now become a potential land for pasture. In addition, Article 74(4) encourages more efficient use of agricultural land than extending the non-payment of the rent for mined areas from 10 to 40 years. The tenant who collects the mined land in the long term is obliged to demining the land on his own cost within two years. Although the value of the rent is 40 years in a purely financial sense higher than the price of demining land should be taken into account the specific risks taken into account by the tenant taking into account the leased land, as well as the specific benefits which he/she creates for the Republic of Croatia by demining his/her cost. The demining of agricultural land still below mines is of great public interest because mines pose a danger to the lives and property of all Croatian citizens. In this respect, the extension of the time in which the leased land is not obliged to pay the fee is fully justified because, despite the medium-term loss for the state budget in the form of unpaid land demining fees, it represents a lasting profit for the economy and the safety of the Republic of Croatia, which in the long term is more than compensated by the forgiven fees. Among the different improvements to the provisions of the previous law, the amendments proposed in Articles 17 and 27 of the new amendments and amendments eliminating the possibility that, in cases where potential buyers or leases of state land are ranked according to the order of priorities, those in the categories of lower priority may unfairly raise purchase or lease prices. In addition, the amendments in Article 42 instead of a provision prohibiting the sale of state land purchased at a discount introduce a more sophisticated first-purchasing mechanism by the Agricultural Land Agency which, without undue restrictions on the market, achieves the same effect, namely preventing malversion with the purchase of state-owned agricultural land. Finally, some of the changes that will allow for the efficiency of the control system of the use of agricultural land such as the reduction of the number of separate information systems and provisions that will in a very direct way increase the use of agricultural land, such as those of Article 43 of the amendment, which allows land which is not specifically intended to be leased for the purpose of making land available to agricultural land and thereby prevents their non-use. For all these reasons, I will support the amendments to this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74186	Thank you. One replica, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74187	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Box, you said one nice thing, and that's what you were saying about real farmers. I think it's important to subdue because here today we listen to a lot of soul-care workers like this, and I remember a good time when our farmers paid taxes on the ground, and today they get support. I remember the time during the coalition government when they were being treated combined, and then it was pouring, it was a bottomless bag. Today, it started in the direction of the OPG, the family farms. This is how competitive agriculture is created, how it takes care of the right farmers. And in that sense, the results of course in agriculture come. Of course they're coming. Milk production has increased by 170 million litres since 2003. So many other indicators show how to care for the creation of quality and competitive agriculture. It's an example of how to act and do, and it's easy to talk now, maybe say, maybe now we're for agriculture and we want them. When you were in a position, you didn't do it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74188	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74189	Thank you. You chose the right expression when you showed the right farmers. I would like to hear from this left who of you is a real farmer, or who deals with agricultural production when you know so much about this issue and talk about this topic the way you speak. In Benkovec, i.e. we have 1200 ha of land owned by the Republic of Croatia and all is leased for 25 years under our programme. We haven't practically had any objections, we've done everything according to the law. And by listening to my colleague Beus, my colleague Stazic and the others, I don't know we don't live in the same country as we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74190	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here in this I would say a dynamic debate that is going on today could be heard a lot of constructive debates, but also political assessments that are not based on this Law that is before us today, but on some perhaps subjective assessments or opinions for the reason that simply political parties are on different sides, and therefore they have different views on the world and also on agricultural land policy. However, when we talk about the Law on Agricultural Land, I would point out what I said and in a series of replicas that this Law brings forth really certain newspapers and advantages and that it is good to move towards amendments and amendments to the law, that it is a fact that these amendments and amendments to the laws require the urgency of the procedure as a result of the expiry of that deadline for the registration of farmers, i.e. agricultural family economies in Arcod and what is elapsed and the time when it is necessary to submit applications from agricultural producers for the exercise of the right to incentives. So it doesn't matter this urgency with what we heard here in this room as an argument. But I don’t expect all MPs to deal in detail with this problem because everyone has an area of their own interest. But it would be cultural and polite, as we colleagues and colleagues from SDP and HSU have listened to you say that if you don't want to listen to us leave this hall because we think we have something to say about this topic. And we are willing to talk in the dialogue tone about some solutions and, of course, fix them. That's what this hall and parliamentary representatives are for. For private conversations we have a cafe or some other institution down there, so you can discuss it there. This is an important topic. You yourself pointed out that this is too important a subject, so I would like to treat it that way and treat it if we really think it and if we act like it and live it. So I really believe that the pasture communities defined in Article 21 are the best solution that could have been achieved as a result of dialogues and talks with users of space, i.e. pastures and meadows on the ground and peasant associations and family economies, so I know that even other countries' experiences have been sought, that they have talked to both state attorneys and various institutions within the Republic of Croatia in order to find the right solution. What does this model want to achieve? This model aims to ensure that these pastures and meadows are used, that they are transitory, that cattle are grown on them and that they belong to that category of organic farming, which means that farmers will benefit more than that, but also we as consumers. But what is also extremely important is that Article 17, which has so far defined the use of pastures and meadows in protected areas, has not been defined, has shown its weaknesses in the implementation on the ground, resulting in these discussions that were mentioned today in the Chamber of Nature Park Lonjsko polje. Of course, half the information that they want to show in one political and incorrect way. However, the fact that Article 17 could not be drawn from the basic rules and on the protection of the nature of what I think every agricultural producer deserves and that is support. And that's why this particular model of the pasture communities that were doubted whether cooperative was the best model, whether it should go to some different forms, so there were suggestions to go to the association as a model. It has been shown that it is not possible that cooperatives are the best model because through such a form of association the right to support can also be achieved. The cooperative also unites various breeders who can be the bearers of the development of the region. It can be obtained as a legal person and re-promaterial at a lower price, it can obtain... but also other machinery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But he can also run development projects. And that's why I think this is a good solution that came as a proposal from above, as a proposal from the field. So it's not any innovation or fiction of HSS and HDZ as it is here all day trying to show it but it's... and meadows in function. [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]] I believe that this model of pasture communities will also strengthen and relations within the community itself, which I think is extremely important especially in rural areas, and this will open up an additional possibility and space for people to stay in the country. Through this model proposed, employment is also possible, i.e. self-employment, which today is indeed a priority in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, this model also allows for better product placement on the market, but also for the design of market marketing and education of domestic people. What is extremely important to me as representatives coming from Sisak-Moslavina County, so the county that has the most hectares under the pastures and meadows is that through this model the country is being processed, these areas are being put into operation, biodiversity and habitats are being preserved, meat is produced ecologically, and what is significant is helping local local people. This is the purpose and essence of this law, not what we could hear today in some other debates. What I also want to commend is Article 16, which is that you have returned that criterion of domicility. I think it's extremely important that it's also denied by all those who want to show that the peasant will buy land so he can resell it to someone else as if the peasant had no smarter jobs than he'll do trade and reselling. The peasant fights for his survival every day because living on earth is not easy, these are people who do not have an annual vacation, who do not go on vacations and winters, who eat their families and train their children from what they do. And that's why putting a peasant in a category of speculators as it could be heard here today, I don't think it's appropriate, so I could say it's ugly. This Article shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. And I think that this criterion removes many of the dilemmas that may have been well-intentioned and which appeared in today's debate. Of course I have to mention here and some of the weaknesses I see in this law and the dilemmas that come to me. One is related, or both, to the Constitutional Court's decision. I know I can't comment on the Constitutional Court's decision, but I have to say I'm extremely disappointed, so I'd say even bitterly that right now, we're discussing a law in which we haven't solved the problem of private unprocessed agricultural land. Those models that were proposed in the existing law, which are now out of force, were, in my opinion, correct. By putting these articles of the law out of force, my opinion is that still the Ministry of Agriculture was supposed to offer some other solutions today because we also heard through today's debate that this is a problem, unprocessed private agricultural land is a problem, it is a threat to neighbouring parcels, it is a threat to serious farmers and my view is that there should be an adequate solution. When it comes to Article 9 so-called I have here a Constitutional Court decision that says, because today everyone reads from that Constitutional Court decision what really fits in his debate, but it's not a bit read. And the point is that according to a lawsuit filed by the prosecutor, if I'm not mistaken from Kaštel, the Constitutional Court has complied with her request and assessed that those ratios, when it comes to re-purposed land, were not realistic, that they were too large and that they should be corrected. However, it is my opinion that such a provision as you put into the Agricultural Land Act would be ideal and could be applied when it comes to farms built on agricultural land that should be legalized because this is a condition for farmers to run for European funds. However, when it comes to investors, although of course I support the relief of investment and the promotion of new investments, I think there should have been a little different proportions here than those found in the law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74192	Thank you. One correction, two replicas. Correction, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74193	Well, my colleague Petyr said that the drafts of this law came from downstairs and here we are implementing them up here in law. I haven't heard of this public debate, and if the HSS branches have possibly discussed this topic on the ground it's unknown to me, but it certainly wasn't discussed by those who have problems with the placement of their products, it certainly wasn't discussed by my colleague in the White Manastir who planted an orchard out of his humble severance, and today because of such well-organised agriculture, that coffin, as it is said, is a brush, I don't know what to call it, where fruit costs more than the contents of that umbrella. So, until that stage, we brought producers to the Republic of Croatia, and if they didn't suggest anything, and if they are respected, you've pissed him off to us in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74194	And where does my colleague Hrelja keep his fruit in the rain? Where's the fruit in the rain? ... It's not in the umbrellas. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But something else, but it's rainy. Let's do two replicas, and we'll sort it out through these replicas. ... Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica with a view to the umbrella. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74195	Well, I wouldn't go into the area unaccounted for. I'm talking about what I know, and you and your colleagues, Petyr, well noticed that we all have our own area of interest in some way and that we can't all discuss quality issues, and especially not about such important and significant as agriculture. Maybe we can discuss it, but understand it a little harder. That's why it's symptomatic to hear today that our colleagues on the left say so with a ferocity about agriculture and know how they speak. And when the budget rebalance last year for agriculture was 600 million kuna, they were against it. I personally experienced it when I was talking here about plowing and plowing in this House of Commons, then it was caused by those who dared to talk about plowing and plowing. And I'm going to tell you dear colleagues that agriculture is a deep plowing that's been working all year, doing long years and mandates and we've proven it and proved it. It's not the palitative treatment of combinations, it's the creation of a competitive farm based on family farms, all of which are the results that prove achievements in agriculture, and in that sense, I think we can really be proud of what we've done in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74196	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, you have properly assessed today's situation in Croatia's agricultural and, of course, the right of MPs to allow everyone from their worldview and the area they are dealing with to engage in certain solutions. However, I agree that if this is the case, there should be one consistency, and I think you took a good picture of it with this example that you said because, in fact, if we want to have a competitive agricultural production, it is necessary to allocate the financial resources. It is among the individual representatives in the Croatian Parliament that certain political options always come to object that too much is set aside for agriculture, so there are some comparisons that would not be repeated there now because they are not appropriate. BUT exactly the financial contracts with the European Union and the financial envelope that was negotiated confirmed what we have stated, what we have drawn out in our budget, what we voted on, is that if we want to have competitive agricultural production, if we want the family, Croatian agricultural economies to survive, then we have to allocate 6 million kuna per year and the financial envelope of the European Union confirmed it because 800 million euros has been negotiated, which is somewhere equivalent to this figure that it speaks of. It is clear to any reasonable that there is no development unless the financial resources are also invested. However, I would not look at agriculture only through this benefit food production but through what I keep stressing and that is keeping the Croatian space and villages and keeping our identity, religion, culture, costumes and therefore saddening me, I can not even be angry anymore but grieved when I hear some reviews in this Croatian Assembly of distinguished representatives who go against both Croatian villages and against Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74198	Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74199	So, fellow Petyr, you either misunderstood me completely or I expressed myself so vaguely that you couldn't do it differently than to get it wrong. When I was talking about speculation, it didn't occur to me that I thought that peasants would speculate with their land and their premeditation, they can't do it. First, they can't do it because they don't make a decision to re-use, and second, they don't have privileged information where to re-use the land. When I was talking about speculation, I wasn't talking about peasants, I was talking about party politicians in the ruling coalition. Those in local self-government units, where they have most of them, can make a decision on the re-use of land and know what land they will re-use. And in agreement with the ministries that grant approval, they or the associated persons can buy that property cheaply as farmland, and when it is re-selled 10 times more expensive. So, peasants can neither do this nor have a basic prerequisite for doing it, nor have basic information. To be perfectly clear, I was not talking about peasants, I was talking about officials of the ruling coalition who proposed Article 9 so that, through the re-use of land, I could gain enormous wealth. Am I clear enough now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74200	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74201	Dear fellow STazic, I didn't speak of you at all, because if I had thought of you then I would have mentioned you by your name. There were other speakers on your part and we've been discussing this law all day, and it's quite clear to me what you wanted to say is you've just ignored the fact that we in Croatia have over 500 units of local administration and self-government and that in most of them there are parties to the right center of power but you have also a few mayors and mayors. Now I don't know if you thought that they didn't take part in the adoption of spatial plans, which is a prerequisite for any activity during the re-use of land because it would be extremely bad because it would mean that SDP's mayors and mayors are holding back the complete development of their community or city that I don't believe because many of them know and I know that they don't behave so irresponsiblely and in the way that you've shown here. I must remind myself that the Constitutional Court has just reached its assessment and the wording of this article and that the consequence of the amendment to this Article 9 is the Constitutional Court's decision. However, if you listened carefully to me, and I think you did not, because right now you misunderstood me, I said that this article is what I think is the weakness of this Law. Article 9 which is thus written under the influence of the Constitutional Court decision and of what is not resolved by this law which the same Constitutional Court has put out of force, which is the treatment of private owners of unprocessed agricultural land. So I hope that now that we've done this beautifully, we've completely and completely understood each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74202	One of our colleagues who is now in line is to this extent infinitely patient and persistent to deserve the nickname shined, it was one of the Pharaohs or the god Osiris or Rameses II. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74203	I thank Mr. President, the position of the sun and the planet obviously has some influence. Well, well, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Vice President. I believe that the proposed amendment and addition of this Act in the section relating to Articles 7 to 10 of the proposed law is only one segment in order to allow for the acquisition of large and zero earnings in the mixing of land, especially on the coast and on the islands, through changes to the positive rules on agricultural and construction land. In this, the Constitutional Court's decision is just welcome to cover the implementation of this legislative preparation, to legalise the enormous profits achieved by buying non-building land and turning it into construction land. Even though the decision incorrectly states that such a re-purpose is decided by cities and municipalities which is not exactly true because under the applicable Law on spatial planning and construction of land use in the majority of the districts, while the role of cities and municipalities is reduced to a mere crossover of the construction areas that the counties determine. The provisions in question refer to the payment of a one-time fee for the re-use of agricultural land for the purpose of construction. The question is, who's free from paying this fee? I believe that there is no reason to exempt payments for the re-use of those activities if they are carried out to obtain profits. The fee has also been released for the construction of the golf course, which sets golf courses under the same category as the construction of infrastructure facilities for social needs, public buildings for the purpose of revitalising the victims of the Homeland War, buildings in which Croatian defenders and others are provided. Indeed golf courses do not belong in this category and do not build for caritative purposes. Furthermore, the newspaper is that the fees are freed from facilities built to provide catering and tourist services in its own agricultural economy and rural households under which an apparently innocent name hides something completely different. These are according to the applicable Law on spatial planning and construction of buildings which can be built on an area of three hectares of agricultural land, which thus becomes a building particle at a distance of 100 m from the sea, the altitude of the ground floor, and the area of up to 200 m square meters and all outside the building areas. In the absence of rules defining the concept of rural households and the agricultural economy, and in particular the fate of these facilities, if both activities are not carried out or stopped, or the object of the change of owners, it can only be imagined that these facilities will be converted into attractive summer homes for selected users, this is how sunlit from the field we get information that, especially in the islands, especially in recent years, they have taken the maha of the bagatelle sale of such site-attractive land now not built with intentional re-use. In most coastal counties these facilities can be built practically anywhere. As regards the criteria which determines the amount of compensation for the reuse of reasonable or better explained reasons for the criteria by which the proposed compensation levels are established, except that it is clear that it is trying to please the buyer who bought non-building land at a cost anyway, in a way that is additionally cheaper for the construction price, which is also spoken of by Agent Stazic. In particular, on the islands and along the coast of recent years, she has taken a wave of cheap sales of such site-attractive land with the intention of a future re-use of one-off profits, where the method is present, be careful now that owners and this bazaar price are not paid, but only a small part, while the payment of the rest is conditioned by the degree of force of the plan that the land converts into construction, thus creating a critical mass of pressure from the owners of the plans and who rarely actively participate in such work themselves. In Split-Dalmatia County, it is now under way to make changes and complement the spatial plan under which the existing individual construction areas are declared inoperable because they are not sold, while others now non-building, which are more than cheaply bought, are seeking to urbanise even under the existing Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, are prohibited from establishing new construction areas. In this case, municipalities and cities can only watch what the county does because formal powers in the formation of construction areas do not in practice, and in the Split-Dalmatia County act as if they know in advance what laws will be passed. The proposed determination of the amount of compensation for the re-use of agricultural land actually punishes the owner of that land which did not sell it in time, rather than preventing the exact opposite of encouraging the determination of such land and its re-use. It is therefore proposed to return the law to the promoter in the process where the proposer must give clear reasons for determining such or such a level of compensation, and the same if it already differs in time not with the entry into force of the spatial plan but, for example, the day of transport of that land, and the date of entry into force of the plan. Finally, the debate on this issue is premature because it is in progress to amend and supplement the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which expects the criteria for the adoption of plans that are being re-purposed, so it is without substance to discuss the consequences of what is causing or the outcome is still unknown. Most of us in this assembly don't even know the approximate content of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which is announced because its contents the Government hides like a snake's feet. With relative certainty, it can also be predicted that, in the last months or weeks of its mandate, the Government will try to enable some mixed wealth, or that, instead of protecting the agricultural land of the seashore and the island, it will wide open the door to concreteisation and apartmentisation in the worst sense of the word. It can be predicted that the last obstacles such as the ban on establishing new construction areas outside the settlement, the ban on grounding of buildings within tourist settlements, further liberalisation of building facilities for family farms and peasant land that will be able to be built anywhere and along the sea itself, further detachment of municipalities and cities in the process of spatial planning in favour of the county while probably forgetting fiscal and other threatening regulations that would prevent non-commercial use of such buildings. Citizens will certainly be offered pre-election carrots in terms of limited opportunities to legalise their now lawless buildings only if they do not interfere with the intentions of investors to which the government pleases. In anticipation of the legalisation rules, we will welcome the pre-election time while other legislative preparations for the robbery of citizens will be carried out shortly earlier. In order not to come up with misery, regulations are not proposed as a whole land planning and management system, but as a result of political teating, they are going in hastily as follows. A drastic reduction or an unwarranted release from payment of land re-use fees, then liberalisation of such re-uses as well as the opening of legal non-competitional facilities will then all be beautifully drawn into the spatial plans of the county, followed by formalities in municipalities and cities, then the launch of permits on pre-purchased non-building land and finally if the project is sold to a real builder with huge profits in some of the above mentioned phases in the project development and the whole story can be called how to buy cheaply and expensively sell land in Croatian way. Specific examples where the counties illegally drew up construction areas on the net purchased and still completely unpaid non-citizen land, with the blessing of the resorient ministry. The times, however, in this term of office of government and parliament are getting smaller and smaller. Therefore, legislative speed is of decisive importance. If we're too late, the investment will fail and the investment will have to be returned. Who and who and what will have to return the question to the State's Attorney's Office that hasn't heard from this matter yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74204	Thank you. You didn't mind your colleague with this comparison about the lighted-up, did you? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74205	It was a bit of a distraction, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74206	I think there's only one difficulty with that, there's no blinding. That sounds familiar. [[Bauk: Now the sun is going down, it's okay.]] Mr. Representative Joseph Leco, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives of the government. First, those who challenged our right and legitimacy to discuss the Law on Agricultural Land. Well, it doesn't take a man to become a chicken to know what a kitten is, so even a representative doesn't have to be a chicken to know what the law is. This must be a kitten, this is a stutter of kittens. This is why and what the government's policy reveals when it comes to agricultural land. The government, in its argument, says the law should be adopted by emergency procedure in order to prevent the negative consequences that would arise as a result of the inability to make faster use of state agricultural land. One finding based on which the Government is proposing an emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. The second, proposed changes and additions will improve and speed up privatisation of one of the most valuable natural resources. Interestingly, this government thought of protecting itself after eight years. Great of this government, it can't be better and it can't be a stronger argument. Eight years of silence and three years of law was good, and then before the elections let's sell out the most valuable natural resource, agricultural land that they say we got for use, not property to save for future generations. So this really reveals the barbaric privatisation of the most valuable resource in every community. If this is yet to be added to the reasoning but in norm, Article 9 and Article 7 then the picture is indeed complete and dear colleagues and colleagues, you will be responsible for the consequences that will arise under this law if we adopt it. There is nothing more to read than accelerated privatisation. The sale, and at very low prices, nothing else. Otherwise, it is generally known that, it is a standard of democratic multilateralism, that in the last year or the last months, this could be said strategically and dramatically stuttered message. There's really nothing else to conclude from this, but let's go as soon as we can, whoever catches what you give. Nothing else can be concluded. If, and for a law like this, it is necessary to declare the objectives that will be achieved in agriculture in quantities, in quality, in usability, in workingability, if the goal and here is the stated goal, only privatisation then we really have nothing to talk about. Then there's really nothing to talk about. The government has undoubtedly declared it a target. She did not say this law will help to produce 10% more or shine 10% more surfaces next year or be produced or less imported into the Republic of Croatia 10% of agricultural products. She didn't say anything because that's not the point, it's the goal of speeding up the privatisation of agricultural land. And at what cost colleagues and colleagues. Is it realistic, please, is it realistic in our world that prices at the end of the agricultural land mandate fall 100%. Is that real, is that government credible? The agricultural land fee falls 100%, for the conversion and for the water. Or 50%. Is it credible for one government? It's not my people. We can't go like they're all chickens. So we can't go into such a cut and such barbaric privatisation of land that is really limited by quantity, by value, by content and without which you can't. It determines the future of this community and determines the schedule of forces in this community. If we know that, and all the world's parameters and experts say that food will be the most important in the future and will collect daily, then the dramaticity of this government's proposal is even greater. So narrowly party interest, unscrupulousness could not be expected trust even those most critical of this government. Well, if I didn't want to diversify my argument anymore, I'd be praying for something very important. In the final and transitional provisions of the bill, I do not think this law will be passed because I believe in the minds of parliamentary deputies, I believe in the responsibility of parliamentary deputies, at least at the end of the term of office. I no longer believe in obedience to any leader but in the mind of any representative. However, from precautionary measures, it is not acceptable for the legal order to build legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia to amend the Water Act by the Agricultural Land Act. It is a minimum legal standard for the law to be changed by amendments to that law. It is not possible to amend, in Article 57, the Water Act and this important article, the important Institute for the Protection of Rights under this Act, or the Water Act. It opens up a lot of legal issues, legal certainty, but we just don't edit the country, but it's to say we're being legal. Article 52 is also interesting to provide that transitional provision that units of local self-government which do not start to dispose of land within the time limit set out in paragraph 1 of this Article will be available to the Agency. This in other words says colleagues and colleagues who can decide in local self-government units speed things up, speed it up to the end, work it out as soon as possible, so if you don't want to, we'll at least transfer it to the agency. Here, I think that's enough. Thank you very much. I really expect responsibility in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74208	Thank you. One correction, three replicas. Correction Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74209	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So counterpart Leco incorrectly said that some of the MPs here dispute the right of colleagues on the left to discuss this issue in agriculture. That's incorrect, and it's not possible. Of course, you've been discussing this neatly all afternoon. It is a confirmation therefore that this thesis does not stand, but I said to discuss of course but understand and agriculture it is a little harder. Agriculture needs to live. So when you understand this problem so well, I remind you then why you were against 600 million kunas for basic disasters in agriculture in budget rebalancing. Why so much to laugh at these support villages? Well, it's not just the support for agriculture itself. The village should live as counterpart Petyr says. There needs infrastructure and plumbing and everyone else to keep our village alive. And then, in that sense, I'm coming back again to that thought of mine that I said that words without action are like bowls without food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74210	Replica Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74211	You're saying a colleague quite reasonablely that the aim of a law like this should be to just improve and agriculture, to preserve this land as our non-renewable resource, to fertilize, at the end of the day, everything that the citizens believed and wanted to believe that you would do, not sell, not sell. And we really need to ask ourselves, so who gave you HDZ gentlemen the authority to sell this out. You've sold out the factories, you're in charge, and now you better get rid of yourself this way with your clientele, and then share it with each other. It's something that's inadmissible. And I believe that you are doing this in the best faith as one request, a desperate act of calling the rulings not to do it, to reason, not to be involved at least because of the benefits they do not have. It was those who settled in government and individual ministries, in certain conclusions. But indeed, fellow Leko, it is now truly the one who trusts them once more.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74212	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74213	Thank you, dear colleague Ingrid and fellow Milinkovic. I have to say, it's not my job to judge what someone thought, it's my job to listen to what they said. And for agricultural land and the speed to be implemented, achieving the objectives declared by the Government is also an argument that this is not a law to comply with the acquis of the European Union. This is to say our homework. Unfortunately not only these generations but also future generations, but the government did not want a public debate on this law. If she wanted to, she'd say here's your first reading, check out what the farmers say, what the experts say, what the food producers say, etc. so we would come to the Croatian Parliament in an argument and we would speak of this law and expect an increase in production. As the government did not do so formalist defenses of this proposal itself further compromises and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74214	Ms. Representative Mariana Petir, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74215	My colleague Leko, you correctly apostrophed that the issue of food production today is extremely important. I would even go one step further and I would say that in fact food production is something that directly affects the sovereignty of a country. That is why it is extremely important that all those who produce food have that food where they produce it. So they must have agricultural land. And that is why I am surprised by your part of the debate where you are in some way trying to challenge the possibility of selling state agricultural land to Croatian agricultural families because it is no newspaper or invention, it is a policy of all Croatian governments for the past 10 years. Well, it was politics and coalition governments. I was an advocate at the time, and I know what laws we passed. So in order to produce food, we have to have resources at our disposal. The resources are agricultural land. A farmer who will invest hundreds of thousands of kunas or millions of kunas shall be in debt if he is not sure that this is his land, that it is worth investing in, that it may be paid to fertilise it, that it may be paid for, and that it may be in his possession. And I'm really surprised at this debate of yours today, because it's like you've wiped out the last 10 years, all the laws that have been passed so far as never existed, and now you're introducing some new innovations here. So without agricultural land there is no agriculture and food production. Amen. I mean, the thing is quite clear and it's written in all the previous laws on agricultural land. And this surprise today is completely unclear to me, and I'm surprised by your surprise.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74216	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74217	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Petyr, you're imputing to me what I didn't say. How do you know who will be the buyer of agricultural land? ... It doesn't say anything. [[You can't hear Petyr.]] It says here it's a tycoon robbery privatisation, at prices below 100 percent of what they've been worth until the last months of this government. That's worth it. No, this law also speaks of re-use and sales. [[Intruder Shakespeare: Peace please!]] So it's not about hiding, it's about revealing. It's not about insurance for peasants. It's about insurance for the purchase of tycoons. If that's the policy to keep it, that's all we have to tell the citizens. That's what we're different about, nothing more.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74218	Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74219	My colleague Leko, you're talking about privatizing agricultural land, I'd say this law is done in two ways. One is through the reuse of agricultural land where we actually permanently lose agricultural land, it passes into building land. And I therefore personally think that the amounts paid for the re-use of such agricultural land of a very high quality land cannot be paid to re-use only 10% of the market value within the building land. So that's one look. The second is the one relating to the privatisation of state agricultural land. I think here in this situation you should be careful. Farmers have so many credit obligations that they simply most of them and cannot buy such agricultural land at such a price. I wouldn't mind a peasant getting even a lower price if he does and if it's his activity and products. I would even say that, by value, agricultural land is this that is potentially more valuable to the state-owned than the entire privatisation of social enterprises. Why am I saying that? Because you don't have a processing food industry if you don't have agricultural production. The processing industry, or food industry based solely on imports, has no future. We must have domestic raw materials that are competitive and that can go to the processing industry. And that is why I think that this should be cautious and especially as regards the protection of agricultural land and must be found a way that the land will not be unprocessed but that the land that is suitable for production must be processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74220	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74221	Oh, thank you really for the additional argument, and if that argument will help me to see the problem, I'll be happy. I wouldn't add anything to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74222	Ms. Representative Karolina Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74223	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what's really ungrateful at the end of the day, and after this long debate, I'd like to say something new, so I wouldn't want to repeat everything my predecessors and predecessors have actually said about this bill. So, I would agree with my colleague Lek who actually warned about some of the things that I would like to warn you about, and that's actually for us here in the Croatian Parliament, at least the representatives and representatives of the SDP, but also for the interested public who, of course, is part of the public, made up of the associations, made by the agricultural producers, which ultimately by consumers, so all of us, in an exceptional way, reacted negatively to the fact that there was not one public debate that would therefore involve all those who have something to say about this law, these changes that are actually long-term, I think, against agricultural production, and not for agricultural production, which is actually against one development, which, as someone here mentioned actually allows one sovereignty in terms of food production and at the end of the management or use of our national resources, are those common goods, which are forests, the ground, water. After all, these are things that we somehow, the common good for which we, at least I thought we agreed in the Croatian Parliament and achieved a social consensus that in no way should we fall into private hands and not become some sort of coin for manipulation. A few days ago in fact, in front of the Croatian Parliament, a group of citizens maintained a small performance I would have called it, warning of all the dangers and harmfulness of such a bill. And since here are some of our colleagues who deny the right of some of us to talk about agriculture, I think we can talk about everything on the agenda in the Croatian Parliament, at least I thought that was the case. I, of course, also consulted something that was actually publicly directed or announced a coalition of associations that included, therefore, many associations that deal with not only agriculture but also environmental protection, the rule of law at the end of the Republic of Croatia, includes some 50 associations that have actually expressed negatively about this bill and have requested that this law be discussed here in the Croatian Parliament in two readings so that a quality public debate could be held in the meantime. As mentioned here by the Ministry of Administration also in its opinion since January of this year, it has actually requested in some way and called on the Resort Ministry to respect the code of consultation with interested public in law-making. Unfortunately, this code is very little in Croatia because we know how much law is actually passed by emergency procedure. What I've heard from my colleagues, Lek, is that we're thinking somewhere in the same way, actually the most concerned here, and that's privatization of state agricultural land as an excuse for the fact that this important state-owned resource is allegedly now not being managed properly. In fact, it speaks in a way of saying that this government did not know and does not know how to manage national resources for the benefit of citizens and citizens, and then I can also say that I agree with those who very often say that this government is implementing an anti-national policy and I can only support that opinion. I think that this is indeed one law that is very much against agricultural production in the long term, and then also against some development, the uniform development of the so-called processing industry in Croatia and the uniform regional development of Croatia, which is so before entering the EU, in which these days one long-term common agricultural policy should be discussed, which should take effect in 2014, so somewhere just at a time when Croatia should become an EU member. And therefore, it will be important to determine everything Croatia will do within that community within the next 6 years, so somewhere by 2020. What is therefore scandalous, I think, in the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for which it justifies the adoption and proposal of such solutions is a sentence which therefore says that the proposed changes and additions will improve and speed up the privatisation of one of the most valuable natural resources. I really can't understand why they would privatize one of the most valuable natural resources, and I'm really interested in what wise man wrote this and I'd really like to know if it's the politics of the Croatian government, I think it is and I'm actually glad that you put it this transparently in this explanation. I would not, therefore, repeat everything my predecessors and predecessors have said, how many times is the fee reduced for the change from agricultural land to building land, we are aware that much is said to be necessary in order to stimulate economic development, which actually means that agriculture can in no way contribute to the economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia, and I cannot accept that somehow. And the fact is, in fact, that often agricultural land is converted into some entrepreneurial zones, and unfortunately it is also reduced to one, at least I have witnessed the same examples in several areas in Croatia, that entrepreneurial zone is reduced to a single ice that is actually fenced with some kind of wire and in which there is no entrepreneurial activity and then it is seen on the spot that the real intensities of this law were. Some colleagues and colleagues have mentioned the Constitutional Court’s decision to bring this Law in some way in line with it, and I will quote only one part of that decision, so the Constitutional Court also says the fact that agricultural land is non-renewable, the country’s obligation to provide it with special protection and protect it from unpredictable free market flows and the isolated will of individuals. I think it is very important that and that the proposer of this Law should really read more carefully or with little more sense for the reality and interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia should propose such a law. I don't know what information you've been running, which are estimates in which way, how much agricultural land will be refurbished into building land do you have that data and how the reuse of agricultural building land will contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia, or to the increase of GDP rates. So if you have this information, and you are calling for these amendments to the law to encourage economic development, I ask you nicely to inform me, of course as well as my predecessors from the SDP Club I really cannot support this Law in any way and I hope that he will actually experience drastic changes or that eventually we may not adopt it if there is happiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74224	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Mariana Petir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74225	My colleague Leakovic mentioned that there was no public debate, I must say that it is not true, there were six stands in my county where the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture were held. The stands were initiated by family economies and peasant associations, and I know that they were held in other parts of Croatia, that the State Secretary Relickovic himself was on 20 of these stands, as far as I know, the present Mr. Mikolčić and the minister himself. Whether a failure has been made so much that it is not a major public debate for all other interested associations was here at the Ministry of Agriculture would probably contribute to the understanding of certain articles of the Law and this could be a lesson for future adoption of laws that relate to such topics because these topics are obviously of interest and should also be of interest to those associations that are not close agricultural and rural associations. However, it is not fair to say that there has been no public debate, it has been debated in a field full of three months about this Law, and just some of the solutions that are in this law were drawn together with peasant associations because they looked completely different in the first draft. What I want to do here as a distinction, therefore, is one of the purposes of which I have objected to as a representative and which is found in Article 9 and the second is the sale of agricultural land to family holdings, which is clearly and loudly emphasized what the procedure is and how it is achieved and it is written in Article 16 of this Law. These are two different things to discuss separately and I don't think anyone reasonable can object to the sale of agricultural land to agricultural families because without it there is simply no development of agriculture and then no food production and the meaning of their remainder in the Croatian village is lost. So there are still differences that need to be highlighted and not downloaded by the same denominator.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74226	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. The club of representatives of HNS HSU five minutes of debate, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74227	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I've been listening very carefully to you all day, and I've decided not to replicate to anyone but to address at the end of this session today. In fact, at the elementary school of colleagues and colleagues, we were taught that without air, we could not live but for a few minutes, without water for a few days, without food for a few weeks, and we stuck to those principles for centuries until the year 92. In 92, Croatia started importing food, and until then it exported much more food and agricultural products than it imported. For decades and centuries. My colleagues and colleagues, after that, begin some stages in the development of the Republic of Croatia in 92, and today we are the principles of phase 4. Let me tell you what phases these are. The first phase was the privatisation phase, someone would say a successful phase, the factories came into the hands of those who had capitalized on them, who knew the technology, who expanded the production, who hired the people, the others would not agree that this phase should be assessed so. In fact, specific criteria have been used in this privatisation, very specific. The second phase is the phase in which production and export are changed and replaced by imports and trade. Import and trade. This clearly refers to both food and agricultural products, and you have spoken a lot about it today. The third phase is when it moves on to tax money, budgets and state budgets and county budgets and local budgets, as well as extra budget funds from large state-owned companies of county and local companies. In fact, this money begins to be directed according to specific criteria for individuals and companies per day for years we have been hearing about affairs with regard to this. My colleagues and colleagues today begin phase four when we decide to sell out the few remaining natural resources. Again, don't do it, buddy. That's your attitude. I have the right to my position. Someone's going to say great politics. It's an emergency procedure that needs to be done. It's funny we didn't think of that four years ago at the beginning of our term, so we exploited this fantastic mechanism. Someone's going to say maybe everything isn't so great, maybe it's really going to happen when we get into phase 5, what are we going to have left of our colleagues and colleagues? I suppose mass eviction of what my grandfather had experienced in 1902 and the third year when he had to go to America with his belly for bread. It will probably happen to my children after this fourth phase if it is as successful as these previous three.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74228	Thank you. One correction. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I want to correct an esteemed colleague in this stage four. Well, the Land Law has been in effect for 10 years. The mode of management of sales, leases and concessions in force is 10 years. What's being offered here today by me is just a more complete and quality solution. First of all, I'm happy to finally stop the sale of the composite and arondated land of large decorated parcels that the state is behind them and that they can only go on long-term leases and leases. I think this is far better and I really don't see why this stage 4 is so critical.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74230	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development Stjepan Mikolčić. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74231	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me just a few references to the comments you had in the debate on the amendment and addition of our Agricultural Land Act. First of all, this final reference was to discuss this law in several readings so that important moments could be discussed. I will be responsible to say that this law is in public or in a certain way seen at the hearing for more than 10 months. So then we appointed a commission, a commission of 35 members appointed by all representatives of all relevant institutions responsible for the issue and, of course, representatives of all agricultural groups, whether it is family farms or representatives of associations, whether they are farmers from the agricultural sector through the HUP. Now it turns out we didn't know what was going on on this subject. I could also conclude that at many times and debate certain things were taken out of context and generalized, so it turns out that this law in terms of agricultural land management was designed to sell the land to speculators, to give the country to some farmers who, on the basis of false data, would achieve incentives etc. without concrete firm arguments for such... I don't think reality is like that, but in the most part, the intentions of this law and the previous laws are in function of the progress of our agriculture and agricultural producers. I'd just repeat here a lot of times here is an accentive re-use and the height of the re-use fee. Until '85. there was absolutely no compensation for the transfer of agricultural land to others primarily for construction purposes. '85. Legislative solutions introduce this and we have 5% of the value of saying market prices or other land prices that were in the form of re-use fees by 2008. In 2008, we have a solution that is now in the current law. And these solutions are the fact that they have simply slowed down and were major insurmountable barriers to investment in Croatia, above all for greenfield investments. And you know very well that there are such examples and it makes it very difficult for me to say investment and investment cycle in Croatia. I have to compare, you've all had a chance I don't know I'm guessing to travel the Italian highways from Venice to Milan. This is the area that is the most significant agricultural area of Italy, but on the left and right of the highways are absolutely industrial parks and zones. I wish it were that way with us. The space for speculation and abuses related to fees in this law, I don't think there are any more or less than there were yesterday, sooner or tomorrow. Speculation space, above all, in the spatial planning segment and decision-making on the re-use of agricultural land for some other purposes, is in the management of local administration and self-government units. Hence, there is an address for any such abuses. But not only do we have a corrective mechanism for such a thing here in the law, but other competent bodies do, I think, the Ministry of Construction, about spatial planning and a number of other things. The price of agricultural land. Is there now a mixed amount of this fee that reduces the agricultural land price itself in terms of the availability of state agricultural land in the form of units of local administration, municipalities and cities with the title of the initial price? In the past seven days, the rule has been amended where the price for the sale of agricultural land has not been reduced but increased by 10%. Therefore, they are relationships or findings. Either that part of state agricultural land reserved for return or other purposes. It's not 50 or 20 years, it's the kind of land we have, and we have a 20-year lease and a 50-year lease. So if in possession of that land is a legal person, it's practically land is kind of like these long-term leases that are supposed to be given for 50 years or only physically for 20 years. But in clauses and laws and contracts will stand when the conditions for the return of land are obtained, when the conditions for bringing this land to some other purpose. And absolutely these contracts are broken down and it returns or re-purposes or for road infrastructure, etc. But still, not to pollemize most of you are no longer here. I thank you for your debate, for all the suggestions, remarks, and for the well-intentioned and not well-intentioned, I thank you for the amendments that we will consider and if it is possible to install in legal solutions and improve the provisions that have been discussed here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74232	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final proposal for a law confirming the Convention to reduce cases without citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74233	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Land Act. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. First of all, we will vote on the proposal for the conclusion of the HNS and HSU and HDSSB Club which reads: The proposal for a Agricultural Land Act with the final proposal for a law will be followed by a third reading. Would the applicant's representative like to make a statement on this proposal? Vice-President Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74234	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Parliament. The government does not accept and stand by its allegations made in the draft of this law, amending and supplementing this Act as regards an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74235	So, please, you can make a statement about the amendment, not a proposal for a conclusion that the government has not accepted, and therefore there is no amendment and you cannot discuss it. This is according to the Rules of Procedure, so I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU and the Club of Representatives of the HDSSB. Let's please get involved and vote on this proposal for a conclusion. Please! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, you made the suggestion of a conclusion. That's what the government has come to terms with, and there's nothing to discuss. We can't reopen the debate. Please be clear. Let's get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion proposed by the HNS, HSU and HDSSB. Please make a statement. Are you in favour of this proposal conclusion or not? Here. Everyone has a right to plead. The result? So we've previously made a statement about the proposal and it's not accepted because it's 77 against, 35 for and 1 abstention. So he didn't get the necessary majority. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 106 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendment? Please, raise your hands. But we can, let's get involved and vote whether or not we're going to accept a debate on the government's amendment. Here. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. The result? The Government's proposal was accepted to discuss the amendment. So it's accepted by 82 votes for, 5 abstentions and 12 against. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the tabled amendment to the Government. You've all got it. Is there anything else special to explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74236	Thank you very much. Mr. President, so there's no need to read the amendment the government has proposed, you've all got it in materials. What I want to say in the explanation that by following the debate and the course of the debate is about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, we have seen that there is a need for certain things to be regulated in one way, I would say a better way. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In order to clarify, the previous proposal stated that this paragraph 1 would set as the initial price as the price of agricultural land. This amendment establishes that it will be established as the initial price of building land, which will ultimately be realistically seen and increased the total price of the re-use of agricultural land. There he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74237	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the amendments to the government. Let's please get involved and vote on the amendment to the government. What's the score? This amendment was accepted by the majority of votes, 83 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 13 against. The review of the other amendments is divided into benches. I would like the proposal's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted by the Vice-President and Minister Petar Cobankovic. Here are the amendments of the Legislative Committee to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government accepts Amendment 1 and let me say that the Government accepts all amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74239	Thank you very much. All amendments to the Legislative Committee become an integral part of the bill so that I do not repeat it later. Second, the amendment of Ms. Zdenka Chuhil to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74240	Unfortunately, the government doesn't accept it. It has already been proposed by the Regulation on the methodology for monitoring the agricultural land situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74241	Mrs. Chuhnil, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74242	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I think too much of the article emphasizes pollution, too much of the article stresses the damage to the land and I think this simplified definition of quality includes because it uses professional terminology, and it does not throw the weight exactly, I say what I said, as if Croatia has all the land damaged and polluted. That's how we approach this article. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74243	This amendment has been withdrawn. The third amendment of the Legislative Committee was adopted. The fourth amendment of Ms. Zdenka heard from Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74244	The government does not accept this amendment. No changes were made to the regulations relating to the cost of land analysis, and the existing solution allows the Centre for Agriculture, Food and the Village to also use the services of all authorised and other institutions authorised to carry out this job. Which means that other institutions authorised for this job will also be involved in soil analysis processes, sampling and soil analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74245	Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74246	Dear Ministers, we're making two mistakes. No one can place the goods on the market without being certified, and neither can the lagging land to which no analysis has been made. In any case, when subletting the analysis, state institutions should work if nothing else is in the framework of a monitoring centre, which should be monitored by the EU because the EU provides monitoring funds to an institution that is at the state level. Therefore, we should have taken over, and as part of this monitoring, we also make the first analyses that also define the state of the land, rather than the one who will take over the land, and does not know what kind of land it gets, or what kind of cat it has in the bag. And secondly, I don't see why the introduction of a monopoly over the center in the sense that the center does everything when we have today and with the colleges of institutes that are authorized to work pedological analysis. So this is a monopolies draw. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74247	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept, Mrs. Chuhnell? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment 5. The Committee on Legislatives on Article 7 which has been adopted. Then six. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74248	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The text of the proposed article was brought into line with the Ministry of Construction, Environmental Protection and Spatial Arrangements, which I would have just said and a resolution ministry related to this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74249	On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74250	Thank you very much. In our amendment, we thought that we could prevent the possibility of various speculations related to purchases, sales fees and the purpose of agricultural land functions. By changing the purpose of agricultural land, we also consider the exploitation of sand, gravel, stone, ciglar and potter clay, surface spears, and the creation of a dump of solid and liquid waste. But here, I demand a vote on this HDSSB amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74251	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept on Article 7 of the HDSSB Club? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We are passing the Legislative Committee to Article 8. 8. Article 8 of the HNS-HSU Representatives' Club
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74252	The Government does not accept the amendment because the proposed amendment does not refer to the text of the amendment to the Agricultural Land Act. So we can't even technically accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74253	So it's not the subject of change, is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74256	The subject is to change as soon as the article is changed, the text is changed. So that's the wrong interpretation. In the Rules of Procedure, the explicity writes an article, not an indent. So you didn't get a good interpretation. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74257	Who is for this amendment to the Club of Representatives? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Nine. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74258	The government does not accept this amendment. The government has practically arranged this part of this area with its amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74259	I'd like a representative club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74260	Here, I withdraw this amendment because it was actually consumed in the government amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74261	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. 10th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-HSU in respect of Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74262	The Government does not accept this amendment for a reason because it is contrary to the proposal for a proposal for Article 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74263	Mr. Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74264	Given that the government has proposed that Article 25 of the basic law be regulated by increasing its corrupt capacity, we have proposed a solution that will reduce and justify public protests against the government's policy in the event of agricultural land and the convenience of the construction mafia. If you do not accept this amendment, you are definitely making clear what your policy is. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74265	Who is for this amendment that the government doesn't accept at the HNS-HSU Club? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 9 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The same committee on Article 13. So the Legislative Committee is the same as Article 14. It becomes an integral part because the government accepted it, so we move to 15. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74266	The government does not accept this amendment because the decision-making deadline is contrary to the agricultural land available on the grounds that this is not an administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74267	Mr. Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74268	Mr. Ministers and farmers and peasants and all of us, and you know that many requirements for sale, lease, concession of agricultural land lie in the drawers of the ministry for a long, long time, many months or years. As a result, this amendment wanted to speed up the procedure for making decisions on sales, concessions or leases. Unfortunately, you don't accept that, but I'm asking for a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74269	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 16 and 17. The Committee on Legislatives on Articles 15 and 18 and Article 20 It becomes an integral part because the proposal is accepted. We are moving to the 19th Amendment of the HNS-HSU Representatives Club as regards Article 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74270	The government does not accept this amendment for reasons because it is necessary to dispose of land until the conditions for return are met. But also in the contract is a clause given possibility, in fact, there is a possibility of termination of the contract when the terms of return or change of purpose are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74271	Mr. Beus Richembergh on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74272	The message sent by the Government by the hijacking of the agricultural land, taken back in 1947 to the land communities in the future, is a 50-year lease of hypocrisy and insult to the people who are waiting precisely because it is in the procedure of this Croatian Parliament that would allow their return. So it's a message that deeply offends them. We are looking for a vote because it will allow for the precise positioning of the HDZ and HSS government policies towards property of land communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74273	Thank you. I am voting on this amendment to the HNS HSU on Article 20. Who's in? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. We're moving on to the 21st Amendment of Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil, not Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. HNS HSU representative's club on Article 21?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74274	The government does not accept this amendment because it opposes the proposal concept, our concept goes in a different direction and unfortunately we cannot accept it, it goes in the direction of granting common pastures and such is the concept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74275	Thank you, Mr. Beus-Richembergh, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74276	Well, it is unfortunate that the government publicly announces that its concept is to avoid a public tender that it will continue to lurk at the disposal of these pastures. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74277	Who is for this amendment to the Club of Representatives? Thanks isn't age needed by the majority. The 21st Amendment of Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil to Article 53a.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74278	This amendment is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74279	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 22. Amendment of the HDSB Representatives Club to Article 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74280	Of course the Government does not accept this amendment is not in the spirit of the law, it is not in the spirit of the concept of this law, the concept of this law is that agricultural land is used best and available. One of the conditions, this is a long-term lease, is certain that it is very important that one who will be chosen, one of the conditions for selecting the most favourable promoter be the number of employees. And, of course, it is the proposalr's interest to keep as many employees per unit of surface as possible on a given agricultural land as possible and therefore remain on our proposal and we do not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74281	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74282	Of course it is on your trail to create agricultural capitalists in the Republic of Croatia and of course it is a waste of Croatian farmers and SMEs. Of course. That's why we've written this amendment that shows you by refusing to please the agro mafia to large entrepreneurs, who have more employees and we know and you know and know the citizens of this country who are and how they came to the country through your government, your agricultural chamber and everyone else. And you yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74283	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Legislative Committee has been adopted. Then we're going to 26. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74284	The government accepts this amendment and I thank the Advocacy Club for its correction, correct and good correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74285	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 27th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives to Article 34 Accepted. 28. The Committee on Legislatives on Article 36, etc. It's accepted. It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 29th Amendment of the HDSB Representatives Club to Article 36 The government accepts the amendment. This is an amendment which is in the spirit of the concept of the Law and I thank the Proposer for the perceived lack and we accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74288	The government does not accept the amendment, what is proposed in the text is in line with the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, which is the home ministry of forests and forest land.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74289	Mr. Vlatko Podnar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know now if the Ministry knows about Article 4 of the Forest Act, which defines what the forest is and what the forest is. So, I think there's something wrong there, so I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74291	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. The 31st amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 45 has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the Law. And the 32nd Amendment of Mr Vlatko Podnar to Article 45
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74292	The government does not accept this amendment because it is contrary to the concept of the legislator.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74293	Mr. Vlatko Podnar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, obviously, the concept is to sell this forest land, not to remain owned by the Republic of Croatia. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74295	Who is for this amendment to the representative of the Podnar. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 33. The Legislative Committee, then 35. Legislative Committee and 36. The Legislative Committee on Articles 47, 55 and 56 have been adopted and become an integral part of the Proposal for a Law. And we have another 34th Amendment of the HDSB Representatives Club to Article 52(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74296	The government does not accept this amendment for a simple reason because the local self-government unit has had a deadline from 2002 to the day of today and still has time to go into the process of making state agricultural land available. That unit of local self-government which does not wish and which has not had or implemented the programme, has neither carried out competitions, nor deserves to be a beneficiary of part of the income based on the availability of state agricultural land and the availability is transferred to the Agency for Agricultural Land and Income to the Agency, who does so and the money. Fair enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74297	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74298	You are here, Mr. Cobankovic, as a criminal battle, so you would punish units of local self-government by seizing 50% of their money in respect of sales, concessions or leases. What's the point, you got yours, both you and Todoric. The intruder doesn't understand. You're giving this clump a warning. Furthermore, I'm talking about the difference between if the agency made the sale, lease or concession, or has already done so by local self-government. That's the 50% left, leave it to local self-government. Why are you punishing local self-government? ... /Speaker disabled./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-25-0.u74299	Thank you. Who is for this amendment to the Club of Representatives, which the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Minister. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 80 votes for, 1 abstention and 35 against, together with the amendments adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We continue to work, and as announced we will move on to a point that was in the consolidated agenda under item 6, and we will return when the conditions for these other points that we have just temporarily skipped. As soon as the board reports get here, we'll get back to them. So we move to - Final Bill on Confirmation of the Convention on the Reduction of Stateless Cases, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 797 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr. Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior. Here you go.
