ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66183	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the work of this 22nd session of the Croatian Parliament with the agenda point we announced. Is that on behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66184	On behalf of the club, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66185	On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66186	President-in-Office of the SDP Representatives' Club is seeking a 10-minute break so that the club president can address the parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66187	Mr. Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66188	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament The HNS-HSU Club is also seeking a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66189	But you need to specify why you're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66190	We'll be very happy to point out. It is about the current situation regarding the government's responsibility, the situation that has led to the heat in many areas at the moment, and we think that you must give the right to the clubs of representatives of Croatian parties represented in the Croatian Parliament to express their political views in this regard, i.e. to propose further steps by Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66191	Thank you. However, you are looking for a debate on the item of the agenda which is not included here, and it is known that the procedure is going when something is to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, a point of the agenda must be proposed. But you'll get a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66192	Understandably, we join the IDS Club in this initiative. We're looking for a break of 10 or 15 minutes and for the Prime Minister to address this House and tell us why he's sending the police to the people, why hundreds of protesters are now closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66193	Hello, please. Please, you said if you're looking for a break, you're looking for a break. But you can't talk here right now and open a debate about something that... You need to tell me why you're looking for a break, not an explanation for what you're going to say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66194	Before you asked Mr. Beus to explain, and now I'm trying to explain, and I'm asking him not to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66195	Please! Are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66196	We're looking for a break and we're asking the Prime Minister to come and talk to you and what's actually going on in this country. And when he'll be out of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66197	Please. Mr. Andrija Hebrang on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66198	Well, Mr. President and we're looking for a 10-minute break, and the explanation is all the opposite of what Mr. Lesar said.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66199	Here, please! It is known that some point that MPs or clubs think is coming to the agenda. However, you are looking for a break from the clubs and you will also get a break in 5 minutes to explain why you received a break. So we continue, so now it's a break from, we continue ten to ten. Here at 9.50 a.m. is the session. You'll be given the order of your call. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with our work. According to Article 223a, club representatives asked for a break in order, the SDP club Mr Zoran Milanovic on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go. Five minutes. And please, before I do, I apologize. The Bureau of Parliament held a session the other day about how these problems of ours are taking place, how we lead and what we lead, etc. concluded that any debate may take place in the context of a normal controversy without personal insults and insults by parties and clubs. Here I am before, not for Mr Milanovic's sake, but for all of us, I am especially emphasising and asking that we act like one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66201	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and MPs. After Saturday's protests in the centre of Zagreb, which at one point became organised into violence, the government spokesman, so the person who speaks for the head of the government and whose statements and statements the government's leaders sign and stand behind, said that there is, or that the Government has, that the Prime Minister has knowledge, indications that some opposition parties have funded and organised violence, so that there is no peaceful gathering of citizens, which is the right to exist and without us giving it to them, because it stands in the Constitution, but that some opposition parties have, and it is known that opposition parties in Croatia and Parliament have organised and financed violence. Therefore, on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Prime Minister, the government spokeswoman accused the opposition parties of a criminal offence and a very serious crime. The same day and then after a few days of the co-excessive authority of the MUP, or police, such a claim by the government's spokesmans, were explicitly denied and said that this was not true and that they were from criminal processing, and that is the only means and the only source of information for the police concluded that what the government spokesman said was not true. Four days later things are still where they were Saturday. The Prime Minister has not fenced herself from an incredible statement by her spokesman. Yesterday, however, she said, let them ask a spokesman what is an unmarked form of communication in parliamentary democracy, because it is the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister who are responsible, not a spokesman, and the oil was brought to the fire by the Deputy Prime Minister who said, "That the indication may not be present today, but that tomorrow may be." This is very suggestive for one vice-president of the government and vice-president or vice-president of a large Croatian break. It's very serious stuff. It's not the first incredible information, I'm not going to tell the truth yet because we're waiting for evidence that's coming out of the mouth of highly-positioned irresponsible people, because it's irresponsible behavior. The Prime Minister is running away from responsibility, running away from a clear answer to a completely legitimate question, who is responsible for the financing of violence? Who is responsible for organising violent protests, and what did her spokesman mean when he said so? At the same time, the police have been defuncting the entire time of the government, denying the Prime Minister, and at the moment I was right, and the Prime Minister has an obligation to come before this House immediately or as soon as possible, if she is not allowed to do so at this time and to explain what knowledge she has. Otherwise, there's simply no explanation. One more thing in a series of recent falseties, including the truth about who has been tipped off that he is being prosecuted, or that there is a criminal complaint against him or an Interpol fugitive. So we call because we think it's in the interest of Croatia in elections, not early elections, but elections. It's a democratic method and a democratic means. We don't encourage or have anything to do with violence or ever or ever will. The prime minister asked again yesterday when she would say, at the end of the year. If we finish negotiations on EU membership by the end of June, and that is what we want, we are not in the way, but we will stand for it, as well as the success of the referendum, because we have been doing it for ten years. If we finish negotiations by the end of June, then according to everything we know and what everyone in Brussels knows, the accession agreement cannot be signed before November, and those who know something better say it in December. If we sign then, and we want this accession agreement, then we can't hold a referendum before the New Year's Eve. It's numbers and it's pop-up, which means the elections can't be before February next year. I'm just asking you to keep that in mind and that the Prime Minister has that in mind when he says that the election will be at the end of the year. So we don't need the truth, we need the truth in Croatia as hard as it is, and I say it's heavy but it's not painful and it's not perspective. I'm closing up. We call on the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, to come to the Parliament and explain what she thought about her closest associate and person who spoke on her behalf when he said on Saturday night and reiterated that some opposition parties were behind the organisation of violence and serious crimes. The police have denied it, the Prime Minister is hiding from the public. It's time to stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66202	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richemberhg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66203	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We are in an opportunity to talk about one of the most difficult economic situations in Croatia's history, and we are all aware of that. However, we are also in a situation that we can characterise as a serious political crisis. Unfortunately, all the efforts of the government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor in implementing the Economic Recovery Programme have proved unsuccessful. This is one of the whole series of reasons why a large number of people in the Republic feel dissatisfaction with opportunities, does not see the will, willingness and ability of those responsible for the necessary changes and what is worst of all is not seeing the perspective. It gives rise to frustration on a personal and collective level. They are now proving restless, they show up among other things and protests. Demonstrations as a legitimate democratic form of public communication with authority or part of the public with authority, which will make time more and more distant and less perspectives will be increasingly radicalised. That's what we need to be aware of and responsible for everyone. The dissatisfaction that is materialized by going out on the street, trying to get to Mark's square, demands for the government and the Parliament are still a good sign because it testifies that a large number of citizens in the Republic of Croatia still have confidence in the institutions. As long as it is so, the government must not and cannot ignore the demands of citizens. They've articulated themselves through several messages. The first is for the government to go and stand down. They're the ones who certainly won't vote for the government. But the second is also to determine as soon as possible before the dates or a specific date of elections in the Republic of Croatia, and that is good news, because people who are looking for a date of elections believe that elections can solve a large number of problems that we face. However, any ignoring such demands, ignoring the fact that it is ready to look the real situation in the eye radicalises the situation and increases the number of those who will increasingly be prone to radical solutions. That's something that neither we here in Parliament nor the government can allow. To everything that has been happening in recent weeks and months, the government has only made two comments so far. One, said by the prime minister herself, is that the protests prevent or make our way into the European Union more difficult, and the other is by the government's spokesmans that behind the protests, but specifically behind the violence that followed as the finals of these protests, the opposition parties stand on Saturday. Both messages and other messages are extremely worrying because they testify to the government's level of irresponsibility to look the real state in the eye. It is the minimum courtesy of each government not to underestimate their problems in communicating with citizens. All the statements we've heard from the government in the last two or three weeks have just been going in this direction to underestimate people and their problems, from those who are unemployed, and then administratively trying to erase them to those who are looking for a job, but they're told they don't want to accept the job of a shepherd or a Samaritan and to those who may have switched old for a new car, so they're told they're relaxed. If we are not aware of what products such statements are, we are not obliged to discuss them. The HNS and HSU Club believes it is good to set the date of elections, parliamentary elections and that this approach will only reduce these tensions and the mistrust of most people in the government. This is a responsible approach and therefore we join the request and other opposition parties that Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor come before the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible and says the government's views on this issue, but also that she is aware that the last days and weeks of this government are being announced by the date of parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66204	On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66205	Mr. President. Yes, I think this country should be addressed as soon as possible by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister should address this House. For me, even gentlemen, it's not a problem to plant a lying government spokesman, it's in his description and the list of jobs simply to lie and I don't think we should deal with him either in the opposition or in the president of the state. But the problem in this country lies above all in the fact that this country is collapsing, economically, socially, morally, that the police wanted you to admit it or not to beat the people, that hundreds of people were brought in for some informative talks of which some 60 people were detained, to protest. I'm afraid it can also endanger the season, that clearly because of the extent of corruption, every authority is disgusted and that the power of a Greek legislator simply does not want to give the people an election. And if it were up to me, I think we should ask for a meeting with both the government and the president, announce a gathering of the people, and look for elections tomorrow, so that that 2nd month may happen to us. Gentlemen, these are actually problems. We had, as you know, two months ago a government reconstruction. We got two new ministers, two new Deputy Prime Ministers, and it was supposed to relax the government, and it was supposed to relax the opportunities in a country that was getting worse. The work is a kind of destabilization of Croatia, and above all, it is caused, I see, by fighting for HDZ's legacy. All institutions from defenders to the Croatian Football Federation have been torn apart in that form. And the other problem is, what Baus was talking about, is that it's just a country, that they're in a country running from reality. And while the country bleeds gentlemen on the Blood Bridge, while the government hides the number of unemployed, as industrial production grows or decreases, gross production declines, we simply have fun or is called sheep, talking about relaxation etc. A man also asks himself why they're for example. Protestants in one Libya are heroes, and why in Croatia are hooligans. No one clearly rightly attacks the police, but it is also the wrong dissatisfaction of citizens to declare hooliganism. It is clear that, above all, the party in power wants to protest with dignity, but you are the ones who took this people's dignity. And the problem isn't, but it's true that the protesters, too, means those who protest with dignity and unworthyness seek only two things, elections and let the government stand down. That the opposition organized protests, so that's normal nonsense, but I'm not sure that people will be invited to the streets soon, from one Zagreb to Pula, from Vukovar down to Sibenik. Not that it's collapsing, not that it's breaking, but as Facebook people would say, "Jaca plays the end." Gentlemen, this government is gambling with this country. And I can't imagine now that there's something you want to do with some referendum, the arrival of the Pope and something like that. What I'm most afraid of is that we can question the season. If we question the season, we'll be the same as Greece. There will be no bread in Istria, not in Dalmatia, not in the coast, I am afraid in Zagreb. I also understand those in the shouting authorities, so who will be the one, which the government can bring down with 15,000 protesters in Zagreb, 2000 in Split, with several thousand organised via Facebook. But also, gentlemen, you must know that no government can be held apart from the will of the people, so neither will this one. And I want so much to believe that the protests of all the protests in this country will be almost parliamentary elections. And you should simply be aware of that. Yes, this government of Croatia does not take back. And that's actually the point. And that the police don't put themselves between the government, the MPs and the protesters. Because I think that's what nobody...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66206	Thank you very much. It's been a while. I need to intervene. It is neither the task nor the writing of a government spokesman nor any spokesman to lie as set out here by MP Damir Cain. Please refrain, I think we refrain from such qualifications and such disqualifications. Please! And secondly, legitimacy in the Parliament is gained mostly by the government in the Assembly, in this assembly. If we won't respect our decisions, the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, then who will. If we question some of the things that arise from the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, then who will respect it. I ask you to stay within what Mr Milanovic started. He expressed his position and failed to qualify or disqualify. What he thinks, I don't know, but here at this pay phone, it's not and I pray we stick to it. What? What's he in? You can't fix the president, you can't make any of it. This is just an intervention to go in some kind of order.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66207	It is not my intention to make any correction, but to make one point about what was said earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66208	But he can't, he doesn't have a business opportunity. Please! I'm sorry, but you don't have business opportunities. [[Serb raider: Not true.]] Each of the MPs can get up like that and then make a suggestion. But there is a Rules of Procedure of Article 223a. and I respect it both the letter and the spirit of that article of the Rules of Procedure. I appreciate that you want this, but please there is no business opportunity nor has the business opportunities to correct Mr. Damir Cain's incorrect allegations. Please! And on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66209	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I would like to give a brief answer to the very constructive steps and proposals of the presidents of the SDP and HNS Club and the very destructive president of Mr Cain's IDS Club. We as the most responsible party, because of course we are leading the coalition we must say something about all these remarks. First of all, we're not against going out on the streets. Street demonstrations are a democratic right. Let us remember only in the past year what we have seen in the streets of Paris, what we have seen in Berlin and in other countries where democracy is a little longer tradition than in Croatia. But we are against the destruction of people's property and threats to other people's lives. And that's where the Croatian police reacted and did not beat the people, but protected the lives and people's property, and that's what needs to be done. And we didn't see a single protest against the police. As for our statements, as counterpart Milanovic said, we suspect the opposition is behind it. Look, the police didn't deny it. The spokesman said we still don't have any evidence to prove it. So that's, yeah, yeah. He's writing about it, not yet. But he said we don't have any proof of that. But he didn't say we're not going to look for any further evidence, because the police have to respond to every suspicion, and that's what counterpart Anticevic knows as a great lawyer. On every suspicion of criminality, the police carry out certain actions. Let them do their job. And I said yesterday that I heard in the bar and on the street that there were such attempts and I immediately added but I don't believe it. And today I say I don't believe it. But I don't want to affect the police. Let her do her job independently and get out with the results of that investigation. And then, and then let the spokesman apologize and everyone else who offended her. And vice versa if it proves that there were some contacts. So I ask that we leave it to the competent institutions and not politicize. As for the call for the Prime Minister to come, she cannot come at the moment because she is busy with very important jobs concerning the conclusion of the negotiations for entry into the European Union. We will inform them of your request, of course. We'll let her know about her schedule and her other appointments, and we'll see what the situation will be like. But I have one thing to say. What I saw in Mr Milanovic and Mr Beus's statements, however, is our goal in the short term and the one that is our direct, most important conclusion of the negotiations and entry into the European Union, with this in mind and the answer when elections will be held. The constitution said when was the last deadline. When it will be before that depends on the conclusion of the negotiations. As soon as the negotiations are over and the election is signed on the agenda. Mr Hannes Freedom said so himself yesterday, and I think he speaks not only on his own behalf, but on behalf of the European Commission because he represents Croatia's negotiations there. He said don't call the election before you finish the negotiations. Of course, the left agendas put it on page eight today as "morning" or they didn't put it anywhere like others because it's water on the mill of Croatia's future. Our common interest is to complete these negotiations and indeed immediately after that election. So the answer when the European Commission will know, our negotiators know, those who decide at this time together with us on our fate, so let's help them finish these negotiations, end Croatia's 20-year historic cycle as part of a civilised Europe, not as part of the Balkan mentality. It depends a lot on us in this House whether we do it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66210	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, as the president of the HDZ Club has said, we will convey to the Prime Minister what we have heard here today as proposals from the clubs. And I think it's all good that we've heard all this and that in one normal way, in accordance with our rules and Rules of Procedure and we expose and propose and in one constructive way and we end this current debate which, when the Prime Minister is able to come before the Parliament, we will be able to hear more details and concrete answers. Thank you very much. And now. And there's one correction to the incorrect quote, so I apologize to Mr. Grubisic, I'm a little bit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66211	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian National Assembly. Namely, there are several corrections to incorrect allegations, but let me start at the end. Mr. Freedom has actually denied Mrs. Prime Minister that these protests have nothing to do with the entry and accession of Croatia to the European Union. That's what Mr. Freedom said, that demonstrations are one normal phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia, as well as everywhere in the world. Secondly, Mr. Vice-President of the government you were talking about simply said there would be evidence, so there was evidence for our defenders, and in particular Branimir Glavas, evidence was subsequently created. That is how you intend to create evidence against these protesters. Third, when you talked about the election, then the easy and ad hoc was said by the Prime Minister at the end of the year. Maybe it'd be better to say, or if she said, she'd be on Sunday. That's her answer to the question when the election will be. And last, people's property. So where is this people's property? Well, you've privatized everything, gentlemen. Well, there's no people's property, Mr. Hebrang. Where does the people's property come from now... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66212	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66213	This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure, just a little correction, so it doesn't turn out like I said it. I didn't say that Mr. Freedom said that due to the protests the elections are being postponed, as my colleague claims, I said that he said don't go to elections until you've finished the negotiations, it's quite something else. Protests are a legal, legitimate thing in every democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66214	Thank you. We can read, even on page 8, what Mr. Freedom said, let's not guess. Let's move on with the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, after the Prime Minister has been informed of the initiatives that were here at the beginning of the session, she has called me a while ago and I can inform you that Mrs. President is in response to the Government's question that there are no new elements and when it is that the public will be informed and in this sense she can't say anything. The Prime Minister, such as the chairman of the HDZ club Mr Andrija Hebrang, briefed the Assembly on the tasks related to the talks on delegations coming from the EU and particularly rapporteurs for chapter 23 and around 50 of the European Parliament's representatives, and she is in these talks. And if it does, it's estimated that the new circumstances that can cause the address are that they'll reconsider and see, and today the answer is this. I think your reasons are reasonable, that there's nothing asking us to do something here right now for a special debate. When the reasons and the new elements are seen, then there will also be a response from the government to the Parliament. So, I think it's okay and that we continue to work normally no matter what today and the next days these demonstrations are announced that are legitimate, unless they're violent. We move on to the final draft of the law. What? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66216	Let's not call and ask for a break, just a word, two. Please, Mr. President of the Parliament. We've been looking for the evidence that you've now conveyed that the Prime Minister has said. First, I looked at the government's website, and it says today March 2, 2011, there's not a single announcement today. So it sounds completely inconclusive to any excuse for any meetings or events. That's the first one. Secondly, Mr. President of the Parliament, is there a greater insult to both you and us sitting here to ignore us as elected representatives of citizens in this way and thus sends a message to the public so that nothing can be said about what the whole of Croatia is buzzing and talking about. We're discussing a subject today that deserves attention, but on the streets are peasants, students, Facebook players, defenders, so don't we really need to talk about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66217	Please, you said what you meant. Let's not discuss it. I explained and informed that I had spoken with the Prime Minister and the answer she gave me in this regard. This morning, the president of the SDP club asked for no other explanation here about events or events, but a statement by the government spokeswoman and what the Prime Minister has to say about it. I've informed here that there are no new elements when it comes to being notified to the public. I don't think there's any reason or need to open the debate now because there's no business opportunity to open the debate now. I merely conveyed what the Prime Minister gave as one reasonable explanation for these issues today, which were in terms of committee clubs and nothing else. We can all open up a debate now why this, why that. This morning we had a precise statement from the president of your club and party asking for an explanation regarding the government's spokesman's statement. ... Please, I have no reason to open a debate here right now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please note my explanation. Everyone has the possibility of, why, correcting an incorrect quote is gone. Please. Thank you. ... We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on subsidisation and state guarantee of residential loans...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't know what you're going to talk about, I've given an explanation, there's no replication or correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66219	Let me, well, I can... and so can I on behalf of the club ask for a break, let me just correct the incorrect allegations of MPs... Well, give me a minute, I'll ask for a break. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I'll ask for a break. So, it is not accurate information, Mr. Vidovic, that today there are no events in the Government of the Republic of Croatia because I have reliable information that the prime minister is intensively relaxing to relax... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66220	Please, I have provided an explanation regarding the request and the debate held here this morning by the president of the SDP Club, the representative of the HNS and IDS and HDZ Club, and I have provided this explanation in connection with this and I ask that we continue with the work of the Croatian Parliament. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We're continuing with the session as announced. So we are going to propose a decision on the appointment of members of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council. Before that, on behalf of the club representative Mr. Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66222	Dear Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, because of the failure to meet the demands of parliamentary minority clubs in this House, especially the SDP club, that the prime minister respond and address this House I seek immediately at the beginning of a 10-minute break to make decisions on working in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66223	Mr. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66224	For the same reason, Mr. President, we're also looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66225	Mr. President, for the same reasons and the HNS club, HSU is looking for a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66226	Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66227	... that the elections may not be held in 2012 and the degree of dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens also requires a 10 minute break from the IDS club. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And get him back from Bratislava.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66228	Mr. Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66229	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, we want a 10-minute break to explain why there is no prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66230	Thank you very much. Now, it's 9.35, and then at 9.45, we're here, we're going to continue with the session. It's a short break at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the session as five clubs requested a break. Then let's get in line. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. So I will mention before anyone that the Bureau held a session and made some conclusions about how we would discuss and behave further in the House. Of course, it applies to all those who will participate. Here, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66232	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On the third day in a row, the SDP Representatives' Club is asking for Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor to come before the Croatian Parliament and explain the government's views expressed through his spokeswoman. Neither the trip to Slovakia nor any other prime minister's obligations can be beyond the reasoned request of parliamentary deputies. The SDP representatives' club as well as HNS, IDS and HSU's clubs are currently a parliamentary minority. But indeed today they represent the will of most citizens of this country who are increasingly seeking elections. The prime minister has been elected to parliament, answers the parliament and it is unacceptable to ignore parliamentary demands for days. We remind you, by means of her spokesman, the government has accused opposition parties of organising violence. This is therefore a serious criminal offence, and it is perfectly logical that the prosecution must be carried out not only against the perpetrators of violence but also against the organisers of these crimes, marking the opposition parties as guilty, for the organisation and financing of violence, the Government of the Republic of Croatia fully openly announces the persecution of the leadership of opposition parties in Croatia. She can't be taken differently than a serious threat. It is clear that the work of meeting the plan that Mr. Vladimir Seks announced several months ago in October last year was announced by Vice-President of the Parliament. He said here in the parliament that because of his actions, the SDP could come under the influence of the law and ban the political party's work. It is obvious that the HDZ is preparing, on the basis of false accusations, the persecution of opposition politicians and the ban on the political action of democratic parties. This is how the Government of the Republic of Croatia's political situation in Croatia becomes dramatic. The fundamental principles of democracy and constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia have been compromised. Aware of the critical nature of the situation and the possible difficult precisely unscrupulous consequences that could lead to further irresponsible behaviour of the SDP government has already called on the Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, to immediately determine and announce the date of parliamentary elections. For the citizens of this country, setting that date would mean knowing by when they would still have to endure a government that no longer has their support, which would reduce the tensions in society and ensure such peace in the days ahead. That is why we reiterate our request that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia cease hiding and that even today, at the very least from the road to Slovakia, this Parliament will be informed when it will appear before the MPs and explain the government's monstrous accusations against parliamentary opposition. The prime minister should not only explain these attacks against the parliamentary opposition, but also seek the country's citizens' increasingly difficult position. People are desperate. He collects food, energy, and people still lose their jobs, they can't repay credit wars, they don't know how to survive. If the justified revolt continues to grow on the street there may be catastrophic consequences. The SDP therefore insists that Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor is still on his way to Slovakia today to inform the most representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia of the Croatian Parliament when he will appear before the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66233	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66234	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Once you say them, even the fastest horse can no longer reach your words. This is an old Chinese saying, and at that time horses were a decent speed measure. We live today in a time when the technological achievements of horses, at least when it comes to speed, have left more romantic significance. Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor has been saying more words in recent days that would not only reach the fastest horse, but also in the hopes of formula one, and if the problems with catching up with its pearly statements continue, they may also have supersonic planes. Since the cooking of potato salad that has ruined Croatian citizens not only their stomachs but also their lives, through a statement that it does not need to know what the price of fuel is in Croatia because it is neither infused nor paid as a prime minister until a refreshing statement, apparently more relaxed life for Croatian citizens. Yesterday we also had a chance to hear another pearl in the low pearl prime minister's statements, which offended not only representatives of the Croatian Parliament from the ranks of opposition but also all Croatian citizens who are the same representatives, but also put her in a well-paid chair. The statement that the elections will be decided by the majority in the Croatian Parliament, and not by the street, would not be controversial if the prime minister did not forget that the Croatian Parliament had a minority other than the majority, so the opposition and that the majority and minorities were legally elected representatives of the will of all Croatian citizens and not only the HDZ voters. And forgets that it is hypocritical to call on election day and also texting citizens to go to elections, so on the street from their homes to set up selected, comfortable and well-paid chairs. And then when those same citizens come out on the street without a HDZ call, they tell them they won't decide how long she and her constituents will be sitting in these same chairs. While we are to be placed in the chairs of the public's going out into the streets is a festival of democracy, and when we need to be moved from the chair and rightly so, then the citizens are going out to the streets of hooliganism and the law of the mob. The Prime Minister Kosor also accounts for the Croatian Parliament not only for the majority in the Croatian Parliament, but for the entire Croatian Parliament, and the entire Croatian Parliament is made up of the majority and minorities. Ignoring the demands of legitimate representatives of this highest representative body in Croatia means unworthy of acting as the prime minister acts. The Croatian government lives in its world, in a world where there is no crisis and does not see Croatia's reality as unfortunately as it is. And it confirms the truthfulness of the sayings of things, not as they are, but as we ourselves are. And you government gentlemen are not good representatives of the people, you are bad representatives of Croatian citizens, because you have made them poor, unemployed, hungry and unhappy with your actions. Everything in this world changes, except for good and bad deeds. She follows us as the body follows the shadow. And he says another wisdom, our deeds still follow us, and all that we were today return to us. Yes, Madam Prime Minister, your actions always follow you and everything you've been, but what you are today, they are returning to you today. Your refusal to come before the Croatian Parliament is a sign that you are afraid, and man is afraid of what he doesn't understand, and you don't understand the torment and misery of Croatian citizens, because you live in your world, and you confirm that we all live in the same sky, we just don't have the same horizon, because your horizons are different from the horizons of Croatian citizens, because you are flying high, but who is flying low. Our job isn't to see what's going on in the distance. It's to see what's clear in front of us. You see something from the height, and you don't see a finger in front of your eye. We're all wrong, it's not a sin to admit a mistake, it's not. But by your persistent refusal to come before the Croatian Parliament, you close your eyes to the truth about these mistakes, and if you close the door with all mistakes, you will close them to the truth. Your actions are not a sign of perseverance, but of stubbornness, and the difference between stubbornness and perseverance is that what is considered a perseverance when the goal is good is interpreted by stubbornness when the goal is bad, and your goal is not the good life of all Croatian citizens, but the staying of you and the chosen as long as possible in the ruling chairs, which is a bad goal. The ship you're taking doesn't know where it's going, and it's more important to know where you're going than to get there fast. And you will come here sooner or later, and you will pay your dues for all that you do, and you will come sooner or later and before the people, and you will also pay him bills, and you will not like the reckoning of your deeds. Be assured of that. And, Mr. President, at the end of the Presidency decision of the Parliament, I suggest that we call on another session of the Assembly in the extended composition, but this time we invite Mr. Mladen Barisic and, in accordance with our agreement, that there are no names and last names and labels that are most strictly prohibited from mentioning any name and last name of those who have robbed the state more in front of Uskok and the DORH. ... A shame for the Croatian state that the fate of Croatian defenders depends on the mercy and mercilessness of the Serbian prosecutor's office. [[Speakers not included, not understood.]] That's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66235	Thank you. We've got three more clubs, five minutes to last as long as it's prescribed. On behalf of the CNS, and HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66236	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The clubs of the parliamentary minority, the opposition, demanded that the Croatian Prime Minister, Mrs Jadranka Kosor, address the highest representative body of the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible with an explanation of the statements of senior government officials, including party officials, who accuse the opposition parties of committing very serious crimes. Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor openly ignores the Croatian Parliament. She not only said yesterday that the decision to hold new elections would be decided by the majority in the Croatian Parliament, not by the street, not by a single word at the request of the parliamentary opposition. However, the history of ignoring the Croatian Parliament and the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, in the case of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, exists before. I would like to remind you, about two years ago, on the proposal of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion under which it obliged the president or the president of the Croatian Government to go to the Croatian Parliament once a year and present a report on the state of the nation. When we warned Ms. Prime Minister Kosor that she had not fulfilled her obligation for neither 2009, nor for 2010, she replied by humiliating the Croatian Parliament, she replied in a letter stating that this conclusion of the Croatian Parliament actually refers only to the former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader without referring to her. Such a level of ignoring, such a level or a sublime relationship towards the highest representative body, is therefore a constant policy for the government chaired by Mrs Jadranka Kosor. The government of Ms. Jadranka Kosor has not been able to deal with the problems that have proved so serious that Croatia has fallen into the biggest economic crisis so far, and according to what has been seen in recent weeks and in a very serious political crisis where, in fact, under the question, it is possible for all problems to be solved within the institutions because citizens are extremely dissatisfied with less and less confidence in politicians, and institutions, and no longer trust in the Croatian government, no longer have confidence in the Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. The opposition parties in this Parliament, as counterpart Stazic said, represent a minority, but don't forget they represent most of the public, and if it is ignored then it is a sign that those who run Croatia lose the compass, lose the bus, and believe it will return as a boomerang already in the next elections. Not only the inability to solve key problems in the country, but the open tendency to lie to constants is Prime Minister Kosor's policies. It was not long before a key opposition party was indicted for preparing a coup with the former prime minister, preparing a parliamentary coup. They've never been proven to lie. Today, through another person, because there is no courage to go out and say it on its own, it says that opposition parties are financed by violence. Because of all this and because of this illogical relationship, as the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired, Prime Minister Kosor no longer has to come before the Croatian Parliament at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66237	Who's in jail like this, so you need to get out? ... Many times, I have asked all MPs not to rule as investigative authorities, as police officers, as prosecutors, and even less as judges. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't call what you're not in charge of, and don't call your colleagues here like someone's already in jail, so he hasn't left yet, I think he's here. I think that this is how we re-downgraded the level of this debate of ours, and we can talk about everything as you can see very harshly, argumentarily, unargumentedly as we will, but let's keep ourselves and our colleagues' dignity. Although I have repeated this countless times, I will not get tired of this by repeating and asking MPs and MPs to help the chairman of the session to keep the session under normal circumstances. We only have weapons of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that are often used in such a way as to either respect or disrespect or be partially respected as to whom it suits. I ask you to refrain from judging, investigating, persecuting, accusing, and so forth. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A warning? A warning like this once said once was a final measure that doesn't get any effect. They are said here so many times, and we have never felt that after a reminder was made that something had been fixed, and it had further escalated. Obviously, in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I would need something else to determine, not a reminder that represents nothing really. So we turned her into not at all. So, in the extreme, I'm going to be in a state of extreme need as far as I'm concerned, not even this time, but I'm going to ask that we rule correctly and that we don't insult or accuse anyone. If we can do this in the next few months that are still coming to us in this assembly, I'll be glad and we'll all be kind of relieved, and if we don't, we'll keep fighting the problems the way we are. However, we were also at an extended session of the club, the Bureau and the representatives' clubs, where we made all of this, we made the right conclusions, we sent it to clubs, and there were no dissonant exactly some tones, but we mostly agreed more or less, but obviously it wasn't enough. Please help us finish this session of the Parliament within normal political relations, so to speak, in the Parliament and to finish this session there somewhere in the fall of this year, I don't know when the elections will be. As far as the majority and the minority are concerned, we can't claim anything because the elections aren't held, when held, then we'll know who has the majority, who has the minority. Thank you very much. I'm a little out with this story of mine, but I'm gonna keep saying it. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can't hear you. ... So you see what it says here, it's talking and it didn't get the president's approval. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's right. But when you say it like that, it's obvious you should look yourself in the mirror, you know, and not just the other ones, but you. That's the thing. I asked at the extended presidency, I want to say this again here, I prayed at the extended presidency when they applauded me from the opposition side that I was not happy at all. You know when I'd be happy? If they applauded from the opposition side, when their representative was rightly warned, as did the other side when this other representative was warned. Not just the other side. Then that would be fine, then that would be correct. Let's move on. Here's your turn on behalf of the IDS club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66238	I agree, Mr. President, that it can be said in a very nice way. But I don't think there's any greater interest in the government, for any government, than tracking opportunities and conditions in the country. Foreign policy protocol interests certainly cannot be the priority of any serious government, not one serious prime minister, and I find so much notified that President Kosor addresses this House. I assure you, gentlemen, that far more than a protest in Croatia at the moment is a bit of an economic and social ineffectiveness. Far more than the protests in Croatia devours one social imperceptibility, one boast of the ruling. Far more than the protests of Croatia at this time hit corruption itself and what has become perhaps a serious problem of the facts that Mrs Kosor tells us that the elections will be at the end or early next year. Gentlemen, when we talk about this economic dimension, you know that all the countries in our environment are slowly coming out of recession, that Croatia is sinking for the third year in a row. That industrial production in the first month of this year is 6.7% less than the same last year. About unemployment, etc. We've already said everything. They're offended, I'd say, and the feelings of the citizens themselves are messages sent to the protesters. On corruption, the fact that half of the country's political leadership, which won the 2007 elections, is in prison on another occasion. I think this message by Mrs. Kosor that the elections will be held at the end of 2011 or early in 2012 is the biggest step at this point in destabilising the country, it degrees the crisis. I assure you, Mr. Representative, do not ignore these protests that are taking place in the City of Zagreb and that will take place today in Ban Jelačić Square. This is not organized, there are no more spontaneous things than this facebook gathering and so much I ask Mr. Seks not to pull some parallels with events in Zagreb in 2011 with events from the 1930s, as these protests in 2011 cannot be compared to protests in 1971. The people who gather there, you need to know that they're not fascists. I assure you that at this moment they are the most conscious part of this nation. And know that every message being sent is quite articulated. Of which they return the apartment they clearly say that someone has come to the apartment, that they are a lost generation, that someone can't make something for 10,000 euros, and they will never make 100,000 euros in life the next day. There are messages I don't accept either, which are heard there. But we should all defend their right to peaceful protests, because these people are not hooligans, and the hooligans are the ones who took their future and who robbed this country and left these people with no hope. And they need to know that any political goal can be achieved in a peaceful manner. There's this articulated message for future power, either the government will be successful or it won't last long or it will hold, and that's what I think it's all about. As far as the flag is concerned, it is understandable that we all condemn it and it is entirely relevant whether the IDS flag, HDZ, SDP, etc. is on fire. but I also didn't notice gentlemen when more appeared at the defence rally, and yet it's legitimate than perhaps a thousand flags not to Europe, that any of the HDZ has reacted. I would also like to say this more and more to the public who is following it so that these protests in Zagreb or Pula, or Sibenik will not endanger the tourist season and it is not necessary for the people to fear it. I was the first to show this fear, and today I claim that Croatia is neither Libya nor Greece. So, finally, in one Rome, don't I know where Budapest also shows a lack of mood for power? It's legitimate, and if we don't encourage them, we have to let them try to articulate their will. And you know that the mother of all protests...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66239	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Andri Hebrang's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66240	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a colleague of Caine's, he's very good at proving that it's ugly to say in nice words. I think that this debate today is about raising a little temperature again, and we see it as a legitimate political struggle, so we're just going to answer a few of the accusations that we've experienced again today, which is that we've announced a persecution, that Mr. Shakespeare has announced a SDP persecution. It was a reaction, gentlemen, to your statement that the HDZ summit is not criminals, but that you are correcting the diagnosis that we are criminals. Well, of course he has to react to that. Also very nervous lately understandably, the nervous Mr. Cacic calls us a ship of lunatics. He gave us good material for one countersuit, because he announced a lawsuit against us. But I ask you to drop such heavy accusations and slanders because those at this stage of Croatia's development are not welcome. They will be used by those who do not want to stop our journey to Europe will use them and say this is not European civilised behaviour and indeed not civilised behaviour. Madam Prime Minister doesn't avoid Parliament like you said. Yesterday and you can see it in all the media, she was a housewife and she had an opening speech for 55 Europarliamentaries plus Mrs Vivian Reading, plus the president of the club of the largest parliamentary party or group of EPP, so she worked very hard yesterday for Croatia, working for a trip to the EU. Today he's on the same assignment in Slovakia as you know. It is a pre-planned road which, since it is indeed international agreements and activities, could not be avoided. But I would call again to reduce our tensions, to behave civilizedly because we are really at the door of our joint programme and our positions and our opposition, it is the end of the negotiations. I'll just quote what Mrs. Vivian Reading said yesterday after the meeting. "Croatia's progress is remarkable in all chapters. Some chapters are not officially closed yet, but there are no bigger problems. The European Commission is impressed by Croatia's progress." These three sentences have been summed up by the great effort of the past 20 years to create a Croatian state in the liberation of the Croatian state, in a whole series of transformations of our legislation, our behaviour, our economy, to enter into the frameworks of European civilization and finally after centuries of fighting have been torn away from the Balkan mentality. So I would ask that we continue along such a way as to close the chapters and not allow some to open those chapters again by burning European flags. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66241	Yeah, for the same reason I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66242	Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66243	We are witnessing that yesterday the prime minister addressed herself and HDZ's membership, so today would be the turn to address representatives of the Croatian Parliament. She can do it again since yesterday, but she should probably give us a chance to tell her where the country is right now. Or it's possible at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66244	What are you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66245	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66246	What are you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66247	We're looking for a break so we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66248	You're looking for a 10-minute break?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66249	About those moments to read.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66250	Mr. Andrew Hebrang, on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66251	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66252	Thank you very much. So, ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session at 10 to 10. Here. At the time of the break. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the council and counsel, we will proceed with our work. Several clubs requested a break, so I would like the president of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66254	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, your HDZ colleagues are a firm majority, solid and stable, like nitroglycerin. But I won't look back at yesterday's press conference by the president of the party who would like to go to Europe, but the Parliament is too far away. And where is Europe? I won't even refer to pointless accusations, although we were willing to listen to them here in the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to ask and point out one more time, we're doing everything we can to keep this awkward and unstable situation from getting further complicated and not getting oil on fire. Let's keep the dialogue within the framework of the institutions. As strong, hard and strong institutions are, and the state is. Of course, the institution is not only a Parliament, the institution is both civil society and citizens' associations, so yes, both a civilized and peaceful street and it is an institution. If the institutions of the state are too hermetic, and that happens to us. And that is why by its persistent refusal to come to the Croatian Parliament of the Prime Ministers and the president of the HDZ, it makes these institutions even more hermetical, and the dissatisfaction must be out and it is now civilized and funny, sometimes and firey, we have seen it on the example of the flags and the SDPs, but it is society, it is democracy. The Prime Minister makes a big mistake, persistently and without arguments refusing to come to the Parliament not to make bills, not to capitulate, not to bend, but to talk. Although its legitimate right is to do so through a party press conference and to use the word I use 200 or 300 times, and it is legitimate. And people will evaluate what's right. And we don't think that's right. We plead once again, not me - we, to avoid the HDZ party agenda and the struggle for influence and domination in HDZ now and after parliamentary elections taking over the fight for Croatian national interests. This is not a war for Croatian national interests this is one engagement for all of us who are rational optimists and who believe that Croatia is able to complete negotiations and that it can and must complete negotiations by the end of June and become an EU member. Once again, there's no topic we can't discuss here in Parliament. It may be there and there in the last 4 or 5 years sometimes and any reason for meetings of the Prime Minister and the opposition of the broad spectrum once or twice, and I won't tell you how many times I've personally gone to the Banks Court or High Street, but now it's really enough. When I say enough, I don't think we're over it, but it would be enough in one normal communication, it would be time for the Prime Minister to come to Parliament. Please, every party has its own problems. Don't let your problems become dominant Croatian problems. It's all settled in a democratic way. The Prime Minister should have come here by now, and she obviously won't do it. The initiative was taken by the President of the Republic. The very fact that for the first time in 11 years since Croatia's semi-presidential system was abolished, the president of the state called for consultations speaks for himself. These consultations are not mandatory. The only mandatory consultations are consultations on the composition of the executive authority. This is an exception. But when there are exceptions like this, it's the best indication that the country's condition is exceptional. It's not dangerous and we'll do anything not to be dangerous, but it's serious. And serious people come to serious problems in a serious way. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66255	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66256	Your Honor, Mr. President. In psychology, there is a term of write-off, signifies an internal unconscious mechanism that writes down, ignores or reduces some aspect of reality. In doing so, he reacts to this deviation from reality as if it were real, true, and treats it as reality. There's something called escape from reality, in professional circles this is called escapism. Yesterday, the Croatian public had a chance to see what these phenomena look like in practice. Yesterday's press conference at the HDZ centre could be taken as a mandatory teaching content in one of the colonology studies, especially when the topic is narcissism. After yesterday's press, the Croatian public met the Croatian prime minister in a different light. We saw her like I saw Kosor. It sounds nice, especially to her herself and is shorter and easier to pronounce, but Croatia is not much of a benefit from that knowledge. The Croatian reality is what it is. We are a country that spreads the waves of protests with the right of dissatisfied and bitter citizens. They are dissatisfied and bitter about power, those who have brought the state into the state in which it is today. For the state of the country, the most responsible is power, and the HDZ has been in power in Croatia for the past seven years with its coalition partners. Under this authority, Croatia has become an overindebted country, a land of unemployed, impoverished by its authorities of robbed people. We wanted to be a regional leader, instead of a regional tiger, we became a paper tiger. We are the land to be placed side by side with Jar, Kazakhstan and Botswana and not in a beautiful but in a bad light. For days and weeks, Croatia has been calling and sending a message to Prime Minister Kosor and the Croatian government. The people in the streets also call it the Croatian opposition in the Croatian Parliament. We all call her, but she can't hear and she doesn't want to hear. She's in her world, in a world that's not real. The Croatian prime minister is in permanent flight from reality. The only problem with getting away from reality is that no one really is and can escape. If we shut our ears for a minute and close our eyes, will the problem disappear when we look around again? He won't. The only thing we've achieved is that we've just lost another precious minute. And Croatia has no time to throw away, Croatian citizens have no time or patience to throw away. It's said in the people: "It's burned to the fingernails. And instead of listening and listening to the people, I Kosor calls on empty presses and with rarely seen self-sufficientness enlarges his character and work. In principle praise me my mouth when no one else will, she will do it herself. Yesterday's press was held in the centre of HDZ probably because construction works are under way in Banski Dvors to arrange a new room, a room where Prime Minister Kosor will be held in the future, the mirror hall will be called. It will be all in mirrors and walls and on the floor and on the ceiling. There won't be any chandeliers or conspiracies so the prime minister won't have to say anything. They won't have to say the grand self a thousand times, the image will speak for itself according to the saying, that one image speaks more than a thousand words. And for the impression to be even better in the mirror hall, the press won't even have to come in. They will follow all of this from the neighbouring room so that their physical presence and cameras do not violate the overall impression that the prime minister would not be in a position to call the VONS session unsatisfactory with the impression of the media. It will be such a magnificent hall a worthy figure and works by Kosor. Croatia is convulsing in problems, and the prime minister is telling me what kind of problems you're talking about, whether you believe me or your eyes. Madam Prime Minister, in the end, look from the Upper Town to the Lower City, you've taken off high and too high, and who's flying low. Open your eyes and unplug your ears and get off the cloud, land from the sky heights until there is time for a quiet landing, because the clouds that are overthrew above the Croatian sky do not look attractive. Hear the messages of the singing people, O Jaco, Jaco, so Allah brings us Jaco to the stick of the dust. And in order to achieve the objective of all EU entry goals, do not forget that the goal is to ensure a good life for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and while it is outside the EU and when it is in the EU. And in order to achieve that goal, step aside from the authorities and call the elections. For the sake of Croatia and for the good of all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66257	On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66258	Your Honor, Mr. President. Yes, the situation in the country is a verse. The verse itself you see that it manages simply Croatian, the government does not control the situation, the agony is absolutely in action. There's no telling what he's doing right here on the left. Thank God that our CNB is stable, that the President of the Republic has one strong authority, that the people are not for violence, the people absolutely support the protests, but are also being rewarded by violence. Now, how's Vlad baulia? It's easy for the government, but behind it when someone's a bum, it pulls back the country. First, a few days ago, gentlemen of the HDZ attacked the president, and then yesterday or yesterday, you attacked the governor to enter politics because man freed those 6.3 billion kunas, and if it weren't for one euro, it would have been 7.3 kn today, which would have destroyed the budgets of the overindebted citizens anyway. Now he's imputed that a man goes into politics if he goes somewhere, if he's smart, and he's smart, then he'll probably choose an international bank or a domestic bank. How's Vlad baulia? For example. Yesterday, the prime minister did not look back, for example. to Mr. Karamark's names, that the DORH and the D.O.D.A. are responsible for the prosecution of the defense attorney. The chief of police was the government, as was the minister of justice. It simply shows that each and every one of you is pulling to your side. What are the chances in this country in the end, and the police minister has failed to join the HDZ. The prime minister has her exact style, the prime minister has one outstanding taste, it costs but it doesn't matter, but yesterday she was under the usual decentity gentlemen with that scorpion brooch. You can put on a scorpion brooch, but that symbolism is ugly, because the scorpion is a poisonous ugly animal, it bites, it poisons, it's a dangerous animal, and as such, it's better that these animals stay away because it destroys everything around it, and eventually it will destroy itself. I'm not immune. Secondly, Mr Milanovic said well, so it is civilized and protest against the opposition and throw some purple color at the IDS premises even though I pray them in the future, you do it with red color, teran color, refoska, as is the case with Istrian blacks. You cannot today, and it is clear to all of you that it is a sign of equality between the opposition and the government. It's just no one smokes anymore. The opposition is not the one, although it manages certain counties and cities that are responsible for the opportunities in this country, and in fact, the government has the one who heads the country and the one who runs large monopolys, or large companies. After a long time, Mrs Kosor spoke to the Croatian public, unfortunately not from the parliament but from the HDZ centre, she showed us how much she held to this home even though she was chaired by this House and that she cared about the Parliament as well as the snow of last year, which is not surprising because she was detroved on the basis of the worst recommendation in the RH of the one from Salzburg. And that's the same thing to say. I said yesterday, no gentlemen can stand that every other day someone 4 or 5 grand is protesting under his window. He's the first of all, even though I only think for one day he raised Mr. Hebrang's hands, president of the HDZ Club. And he can no longer defend the indefensible, but I say he has to defend his grandson even though I'm sure his grandson is not threatened by any danger from Facebook. And so much for paraphrasing these very protesters, let the end be played. Because this agony in this country is taking too long. The gross product doesn't grow in our environment alone, industrial production is what it is, for two, three years in a row.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66259	Thank you very much. I played the ending at home now. Thank you very much. You're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66260	Why are you so nervous, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66261	I'm not nervous. I'm very calm and calm. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66262	Let's not be nervous. Take it easy. All of this can be done in a nice way. You don't need to force anyone, and especially... a scorpion bites someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66263	You should, yeah, yeah. The comparison with animals is very appropriate to you. Please leave. .../Speakers speak in the same voice, not understood. It's a symbol, look in the mirror a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66264	Well, I'm still prettier than you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66265	Yes, yes, you are indeed a model of beauty. (Laughter) And you're still a role model, champion of something else. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] One correction, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66266	A colleague of Cain said that Mrs Kosor spoke to the Croatian public yesterday. That is not true because, in the context of her address, she spoke to the opposition parties, not the citizens, and unlike the other opposition parties, I believe, and I really don't think that Mrs Kosor should ever come to Parliament anymore because there's nothing more to say here or we have anything to ask her.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66267	It's a fixer-upper. HDZ Representatives' Club, president of Mr. Andri Hebrang's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I fear that at its historic turning point, Croatia will enter the European Union or remain in the Balkans experienced what it has experienced so many times in its history, that we are pulling the hand brake ourselves. Which is why, who does not care that all the political and social energy of this country is directed towards the conclusion of the negotiations, but is now discussing the date of the elections. From the request of the opposition, from the demands of some on the street, from the demands of some media, the main topic becomes to come down from power. Is it important for Croatia whether the elections will be a month or two later or if it is more important for Croatia or if the Croatian priority is to finish all negotiations in June and get the date of the accession contract, and therefore, of course, the date of the election. What is the priority, government or European Union? I think that at this historic moment we should agree and achieve a minimum of agreement and together help what our friends from the European Union have advised us to do. Focus all energy on the talks, on lobbying, transfer all your energy from home to our goal, it is the European Union. And after that, the election will come. The president made it clear, I will announce the day of elections after the negotiations in June. So are we so impatient to ask now whether it will be a month or two sooner or later? The question of when elections will be so hot that it has completely overshadowed the finals, the grand finals of our negotiations for the European Union. And even here I see spins all over the paper supposedly that I asked the election to be after the negotiations, that I asked for it at the party's presidency. Of course, I didn't ask for it, but after the negotiations are over, the day of the election can be announced. Well, let's go in that order, then let's go in those priorities. Let us all finally focus once on the strategic objective, and the strategic objective is the European Union. Because I'm telling you, if we just break everything we've done so far, and we've been working for Europe for 20 years, 10 years in direct negotiations, and before that 10 years we've been making assumptions about opening negotiations that were bloody, long and painful. And now we're gonna make it all for two or three months before we call it nothing. So don't we have so much responsibility, so much consciousness, so much responsibility in front of generations that come because Europe needs Croatia as Croatia needs Europe. Croatia needs Europe for stability in the region because we will be a role model for our neighbours in the region, and Croatia needs Europe because 80% of exports go to the European Union and 90% of tourists come from the European Union. And that is why I appeal again from this place, the prime minister said she would come before the parliament, but her priority is to finish the negotiations. She is now talking to Mr. Purd, which I also consider to be one of the priorities because it has been desecrated by the sovereignty of the Croatian state. It also now holds a cabinet session, which is also very important. So, it's not playing, it's working in Croatian interests and I'm asking you to consider it. And let my advice be summed up in one single sentence, and it says: our elections will not escape, and Europe unfortunately can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66269	SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66270	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The stand-alone Democratic Party's club believes it is necessary to reach agreement in Croatia on two vitals by the end of the 6th month, as there is still an agreement between the ruling coalition and the opposition, between the government and the opposition on a time frame for holding parliamentary elections. We believe that the agreement on both things must be reached immediately, must be reached within a week or 10 days. If this is not achieved and we do not go in that direction, then the chance of completing the negotiations by the end of the 6th month will no longer exist, and when this chance will be created again and when such a moment and such assumptions for the end of the negotiations will be opened and it will be made unclear. We believe from the Club of Representatives of the SDSS that this chance should be used no matter how much Chapter 23, for whose realization we are vitally interested, there are still a number of open issues and a series of open problems. However, we consider a series of open issues and open problems to be vital interest, including the Serbians in Croatia to finish negotiations by the end of the 6th month. The same goes for determining the time frame for holding elections. It is necessary to completely remove doubts that it is intended to be expanded, that it wants to buy time or that it is in any way difficult to agree on the timing, the time frame for holding elections. And we think that these talks with the President of the Republic tomorrow and the day after tomorrow should result in the creation of assumptions for a meeting between the government and the opposition to agree on that moment. If it is necessary for that part of the agreement to go to a debate in the Parliament in which the government would address both matters and given the conclusion of the negotiations and given the time frame for holding elections, we at the SDSS Club are not far from thinking that such possibility should also be created within 10 days, within a week or 10 days. We'll finish this session tomorrow. But given these two vital and important things and given the continued and dangerous trend of destruction of the institutions of political and all others in Croatia, and the destruction of the credibility of political parties and political programmes that the parties have both candidates and people who run the parties, not only those who are in power, but also those who are in opposition, not only the parties, but also Parliament, then I think it is our duty to put aside all the reserves that we can have on this right now and to put aside in the next week or ten days with previous consultations that I believe the meetings of the President of the Republic will serve as an assumption that one such opportunity is then made, whether at some special session of the Assembly or otherwise. But no doubt it is necessary to have a conversation about it. But it's not our place to propose a final solution. It is up to us to appeal once again that it is necessary that, after the talks with the President, he sits down urgently and tries to arrange for the modals to achieve these two goals that ultimately aim to keep this Parliament and parties in the political life of Croatia from having the relevance that they have so far, and which they seem to lose more and more from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u66271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69609	Let's move on with the agenda. We move to the point - Final proposal of the Law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II, second reading, P.Z. No. 396 Proposer: You received the proposal by mail from HDZ and HSS. The government delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ and HSS Joint Club of Representatives, and they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendments were also submitted by the War Veterans Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Would you like to explain more to the representatives of the clubs? Yeah. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, president of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69610	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here are four years since I made this law, proposed by the Croatian Democratic Community club, later the HSS club, who modified and accepted the bill. For four years, there was supposed to be another reading, which is quite significant, but I hope it takes one of these important laws to come really, I won't say perfection, because it's impossible, but to achieve the achievement of our goal, which is to correct a 65-year injustice against those who were killed after World War II, without the right to stand trial, so without the participation of the rule of law, they are by legal definition innocent victims. Who's this about? It's about the disarmed army, it's about civilians, women, children, priests, all those whose killings started in Bleiburg, on a bridge near Bleiburg, and ended somewhere where cross roads from eastern Croatia, Serbia, Macedonia were ending. No country in Europe and the European Union has ever remained in debt to those victims and the purpose of this law is no investigation, this should be done by the competent authorities. The purpose of this law is to give honor, dignity and dignity to that victim, who was anonymously buried, murdered by a macho, without the right to any legal protection. So it's about costumes that come out wherever the Croatian country is trapped, so far it's registered near 900 cemeterys containing a large number of bones. We are talking about cemeteries that were created after the end of World War II, so after 9 May 1945, when the current Geneva Convention was signed in 1929, which clearly said the disarmed soldier must surrender to the civilian authorities and the civilian authority must judge him. So even a disarmed soldier can't have another treatment, but any other person who deserves or is cast a thorough doubt, a well-founded suspicion that he deserves a trial. But killing, as it happened, definitely condemned Europe. I must say that the Parliament adopted the 1481 European Declaration by the European Parliament in 2006, which is a declaration of the need for the condemnation of communist crimes. The only Croatia has not yet implemented that declaration, although we have adopted it. I must remind myself that we have also adopted in Parliament the European Parliament resolution, which was adopted in 2009, which concerns the European conscience in totalitarian regimes, and which I quote the following sentence: because Europe's memories of tragic past must remain alive, honoring the victims and condemning the perpetrators are the basis for reconciliation. The basis for reconciliation is to honor the victims and condemn the criminals. This reconciliation must be based on truth and memory. This law is exactly what it does, and it meets the provisions of this declaration. In the end, no less important, we have also brought in this House a declaration of condemnation of the totalitarian communist order of '45. until '90, and we brought 30 June 2006. On the basis of these obligations, we have joined the creation of this law. The law condemns a totalitarian, fascist order that is a civilizational fluid and will not and should not be discussed. However, communist crimes did not experience such a conviction. We do not condemn them in this law, we in this law only restore honor and dignity to the victim. Every bone dug up isn't just a mere remains, every bone dug up is one person, one man, one child, one's cousin with all of his fears and fears from that period, with all of his dilemmas, with his personality. And that bone represents the person to whom this law gives the possibility of having a marked grave. So it's about crimes against those who were killed in peace after the war. The law defines those who were killed as civilians, as disarmed soldiers, as well as those who were killed in communist tapes and those who were killed abroad by UDBA. They're all innocent victims because they didn't have the right to stand trial. How does the law intend to restore integrity to this victim? By setting up an office that will have its director, its board of directors and a whole series of expert teams that will first explore all the cemetery and carry out a test dig in parallel, I repeat the test dig of the remains, based on these test remains, the age, the place and the time when the crime took place will be determined. By means of georadors and other technical and technological aids, it will be evaluated at every site as many of these victims and will enter the Eyewitness by the number and locality of the victims. And the eyewitness will run an office that will be established under this law. How will the office work, how long and how much will it cost? To answer that question, we have to ask ourselves, and how many such victims were there? We don't know, but I'm going to quote a few documents to predict that this office will work very, very long. I'm going to quote a few documents that tell us about the numbered data killed on the crossroads. The notice of the House of Marshal Joseph Broz Tito to the head of the British Military Delegation on 17 May 1945: "Please inform Field Marshal Alexander", this is that Alexander Harold, "that Marshal Tito has received his deposit since 16 May '45. about the surrender of 200 thousand Yugoslavs." Document number 2, Joseph Broz Tito's speech a few days later in May '45. in Ljubljana. I quote, "We've liquidated 200 thousand bandits, and we've captured so many more. 200 plus 200. Djepeša OZNA for Croatia numbers 118 since 16 May '45. 250 thousand refugees in Zagreb. We don't know the total number because the application department has been destroyed." It was destroyed so it couldn't be registered. So 250 thousand registered plus an unknown number unregistered. A speech, i.e. a document in politics on February 1st, '51. Aleksandar Rankovic, head of OZNA, an institution that organised the killings, says, "Our prisons went between '45, so after the war and '51. 3 million 777 thousand and 776 prisoners." 3 million 777 thousand 776 prisoners of cca 20 million inhabitants as far as Yugoslavia had. "As we liquidated 586 thousand people's enemies." And perhaps the most credible document from the English archive, the British 8th Army official document that took over and extradited the executioners to the prisoners, so the British 8th Army official document states that there were 200 thousand disarmed Croatian soldiers and 500 thousand civilians in Bleiburg. If we take minimum data and there were a couple of tens of thousands of victims, it imposes provisions on this law. First of all, these remains are impossible to dig up as requested in the debate. It's impossible to move. It took us ten years to take care of the remains of 1163 exhumed on the Macell Mountain. Now imagine a few dozen thousand. It's technically impossible, it's legally impossible, it's organisationally impossible. That's why we stand by the law wherever it's possible for the victims to stay where they are. But the office is obliged to arrange this cemetery, access roads, a prominent record of which the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings, a prominent religious sign in agreement with religious communities. Because this law doesn't distinguish either religion or nationality with the victim. The victim is a victim. After that, he teaches the county to maintain the site. Why is it important to surrender to maintenance? Some graves that were decorated 20, 10, 15 years ago have again healed into weeds, thorns. Just visit Maceljska Mountain, you must dress well as true climbers to get to those pits that have been found, and even more to those 30 caves that are yet to be seen. These pits are only because the grass on that part is brighter because for decades the decay of organic matter changed the color of the grass and wherever it was buried there were bones found. So we must not only arrange such graves but also maintain them. I think the law hit its task and because between the two readings we didn't actually get any major criticism. Which in the first reading, as you know, both HDZ of course supported this first reading with its partners and SDP. So once again, after the first reading, we sent a circulatory letter to all the representatives’ clubs to see if there were any objections. We didn't get any comments. From a public hearing, and I'm obliged to say, we have several objections that we have not accepted. We also have a few remarks that we have installed. Why couldn't we accept it? We couldn't accept the public advances of former high-ranking state officials who claimed these were armed soldiers and they were justifiably killed, they weren't civilians. It's a lie. At the time, there were crusaders and other armed groups who resisted the official then Yugoslav government. And the official government has officially reacted. And if he was killed in an official official assault, the deceased should not have an unmarked anonymous grave. I hope that's the kind of government she buried under her name and last name. This law is not for those, but for anonymous victims, who did not resist, who were killed by hand tied, who were killed with a wire around the wrists that were killed and unfortunately buried without any human words or human rights to defence. The second observation was why you did not extend the law to the period of war. The answer is very simple. All countries have passed World War II Law on military graves. Why can't Croatia pass such a law? Because Vicko Krstulovic then head of the Yugoslavia's Interior Secretariat, gave orders in 1945 to re-orient and excavate all war graves. And these graves, knowingly according to that order, are overstretched, and are no more, he has even ordered that the fences and flowers planted to be sold in some kind of auction. So we can't go during the war. Another reason why this law does not treat the period of war, because there were not only innocent victims in the war, this law treats only innocent victims. There were war crimes against civilians on both sides. The war knows neither ethics nor morals, and these are the victims that were killed after the war ended, therefore they are all innocent and such objections are absolutely to be rejected. We also reject the objections of those who say that with this law we want to politicise and that we want some pre-election points. I put that law in the process four years ago. I had no idea who would be in power and whether there would ever be another reading, and let alone no politicization at all. It just couldn't be politicized because it was impossible to predict that time. It should also be said that this law does not serve political purposes and that it is also accepted by the opposition in the first reading. So, I'm reading in this law one good thing. Except for the height of the sacrifice that we must raise to the level of European civilizational standards of behavior, I see here the closure of some wounds from the past and some of our divisions, because in this way we put behind us all of the political energy we've spent on proving who's guilty, who's not guilty and what happened after 9 May 1945. In this way, the victim is satisfied and we can focus our political strength on Croatia's future, rather than Croatia's past. And another detail that's important. Young people don't know anything about this, our textbooks don't talk about these victims or speak very superficially and very little. Through the truths that will record this office and the young will come to historical truth and historians will get material for historical truth and we will finally draw a line and say, now we no longer need to turn the past. And to those who predicate, and there's plenty of them, why do you always turn back? There's only one message for them. The only thing more important than the Croatian future is that its bloody past is not repeated. And that's why I'm asking you to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69611	Thank you. Mr. Greek? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Does a representative of the government want an extra one? Yeah. Mr. Stjepan Adanic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Family Affairs, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69612	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has no objection to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of Graves and Victims of Communist Crime after World War II with amendments to the final draft laws submitted by the HDZ and HSS Clubs in the Croatian Assembly of the Act of 15 February 2011. This law applies to the victims of pornography at times when they apply the legal civilization provisions on the right to a fair trial. After the end of World War II, which officially ended on 9 May 1945, individual and mass killings of people, civilians and developed soldiers occurred without trial since the regime. An unacceptable and unreasonable civilian war sacrifice regardless of the circumstances in which it was created. Every victim deserves a civilized relationship, respect, and must never be forgotten. This bill should allow all victims to pay their due honors after finding and marking graves. We support the adoption of laws because we believe that this is, among other things, a civilization norm and a civilization's reach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69613	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the War Veterans Committee, the chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69614	Mr. President of the Parliament, fellow MPs. The Croatian War Veterans Committee at its 25th session held on 23 February 2011 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of Graves and Victims of the Communist Crimes after World War II, which was delivered to the president of the Croatian Parliament by the Croatian Representatives' Clubs of HDZ and HSS in an act of 26 November 2010, and the amendments to those submitted by the applicants on 15 February 2011. The Committee held the debate as a parent working body, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of 17 February 2011 which does not object to the adoption of the law with the proposed amendments to the proposal as an integral part. Representatives explained the intentions of law-making, which primarily refers to the giving of the duty of honour to victims of communist crimes after 9 May 1945, and to the regulation of the obligation of systematic organisation of the finding, marking and maintenance of graves of communist crimes. No exhumation has been proposed in the proceedings, except for the trial or identification of the victims, since it is a large number of victims and a significant passage of time since the crimes were committed. In the discussion of the members of the Committee, it was warned that the subject matter of the act was not in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, or Article 152(3) thereof, which said that the proponent in the light of the final proposal of the law was obliged to specify the differences of the solution proposed in relation to the solution set out in the draft law. The reason why these differences occurred was because of those proposals and opinions which were given on the draft law, which the applicant did not accept, with reasons why he did not accept, that paragraph 2 of Article 5 of the Law proposal was left out, and that there was no reasoned proposal by the Committee on the text of the draft law that a member of the Associations of Homeland War was appointed to the Council of the Office. The law is supported because of the need to honor all innocent victims of the totalitarian regime, but the possibility of investigating war victims should be considered. It is necessary to do everything possible to maximise exhumation, identify the remains found for offspring and a dignified burial, and knowing that today's technique allows it. Following the debate, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the final proposal of the Law on the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of Graves and Victims of Communist Crime after World War II, together with amendments to the Proposers and the following amendment of the War Veterans Committee: Article 15(2) adds the words "and so are the members of the Committee on War Veterans". We have explained that these are proposed to appoint one member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament to the Administrative Council of the Office for the find, marking and maintenance of the graves of the victims of communist crimes after World War II because it is the working body of the Croatian Parliament and parent for victims of the totalitarian regime in accordance with Article 81. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69615	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69616	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The bill before us, as Mr. Hebrang said, has been in circulation for four years now. However, we have it in front of the Croatian Parliament also relatively long. It is not the only law waiting for its order for a very long time before this Croatian Assembly, but it is very interesting that it came to the agenda now before some who wait longer than it is at the time when this initiative, or the law itself, and the debate on it, coincides with the messages recently sent by Minister Karamarko. Whether the promoter, and then all of us together, are aware of how much this topic is subject to manipulation and abuse, given the fact that many of the very important facts from which the premises of this law take place are still not fully defined at scientific level. But it must never be an obstacle to our humanity at a scientific, historical level. It must never be an obstacle to political responsibility to mention every victim of every war. Because as people have said, war is smarter than I am is one of the greatest, if not the greatest evil that can ever be invented in the history of mankind because it is with itself above all because it implies in its root the sick and antihuman ideas, it brings a whole series of evils that leave behind only and exclusively blackness, sorrow, trouble and pain. World War II, the bloodiest world conflict, particularly bloody, has proved to be in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. The former Yugoslavia and that old Kingdom were not only the subject of the occupation from Bulgarian fascists to Italian fascists, but also the site where the Quislin forces were exclusively numbers and cannon meat, the means of achieving the most sick political, absolutely non-human ideas. The second world war unfortunately did not end in Croatia on 9 May, according to the bill, and there will be one of the disputes. It is known that a complete group of E armies under the command of Colonel General Alexander Veir refused surrender and capitulation signed by the German army on 9 May and that combat operations involving both Ustasha and Chetnik and Belarusian forces lasted until May 15th. So, very active combat operations are being led across the territory of today's Slovenia. Armed formations refused to surrender. It caused terrible crowds, air raids, land and heavy civilian casualties that were retreating in the columns, believing that the occupation Quislin forces would provide them with a transition to the territory controlled by Western allies. So what happened between May 9th and May 15th is the bloodiest part of this story. This bill implies that the war ended in Croatia on May 9th and that everything that happened until 15th, until the silence of armed fighting and the surrender of armed armies, above all large troops, was not war. It's the premise's fault. Furthermore, drinking to each victim must be based on every democratic state. If she shares the sacrifices, if she shares the dead sooner or later, she will face the wrath of those who have been wrongfully forgotten or who have been silenced. Since '91. the year to date, since the action of that famous commission led by its modern vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, and then by Constitutional Judge Vice Vukojevic, there have been public objections which were primarily caused by politically shaped conclusions and commissions in which they were regularly held that they were not only in columns from Bleiburg and Dravorad, but also from other areas on this terrible crossroad, they were not just Croats. It insulted many victims. And I ask when we were already so solid where the Government of the Republic of Croatia was when there was a memorial to those who perished in the Krindi camp. Where was the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it was marked in Valpovo? Where was the Government of the Republic of Croatia when the mention of home or memorial centre of the Danube Krauts was opened last year? Is it possible to wash your position just by financing a part of the activity, but you do not want to be present. It's not good. It's not good, because the victims we're talking about here are those Italians who've been thrown into photos between 800 and 20,000, but according to how and who's talking, how they interpret, how they write. But certainly among them a large number of civilians. Among them are also 48447 names and names of Germans who died of hunger and November, from diseases in camps established by the then communist authorities only for the Germans. Between them and 5582 names and the last name of the numbered children. So, to say that the war victims were directed only against one nationality would not be correct, it would not be true. But if we rise to that level that will give each victim a pitet, which will honor soldiers who are killed on all sides. I was ashamed when the German Union for War Cemetery Care without the presence and assistance of Croatia edited a German military cemetery in July '45. in Vrapac, in Mirogo and in Split, Lovrinac. Let's not share the dead. We can't let any law do that. But we must not put the victim in the same position as the one who committed the crime. So, we need to be aware that the complete group, the E Army, along with all the Quislin armed forces including the Chief Body Association until May 15th, was militaryly active, opposed at all to the idea of capitulation and that huge victims fell precisely in those seven days, six days. On the other hand, let us not share sacrifices if we want to give them a full drink. What have we been doing for the past 20 years on this plan? Is it possible that the modern and democratic state only in 2011 wants to legally settle the issue of gifts to all the victims of war, i.e. the pores, of a totalitarian regime that has come from the winning wing? That's a lot of criticism. The very fact that today in early March 2011 The Croatian Parliament discusses this, it is a great criticism of our own conscience. But also, it is our obligation that when we talk about this, we do not involve either parties or politics or elections. And it's not good when actually the public speech of the Home Secretary announces this debate of ours at the moment when we know that the last year has not been a finger move on this issue and that he just now remembered it in the election year. It's not good because we have reports on the work of the MUP, it's not good, because we know what the police's work programme was and we know that it wasn't taken into account at all, and today it's one of the most important political topics. To the souls of those who seek to draw attention from the problems they face. But equally to the souls of those who want to achieve political points. If there are and wherever they are. I wish that, according to all the victims of this space, wet blood so much in both World War I and World War II, and after that, especially in the Homeland War, if we really had a relationship with all these victims as a living man to the one who is gone and the worst thing is just forgotten. I wish, therefore, we had the strength to rise above it and if it were our daily behavior, our daily attitude, not the attitude we will remember and which we will verbalize only in election years. It is not good that this is always coming back to us and it is not good that this law says that the office it proposes will actually rely on what the commission was doing under the orders of Mr Vukojevic but only because of that, only because if nothing else but the dispute over its findings was up to the sky, because it was violently moved here in the very neighborhood of the Croatian Parliament, in the Bombles Palace which was to be returned four days later to the former owner. Only to avoid being returned was the newly established commission, on its neck, on its nose overnight because the law predicted that when a state institution is in real estate which is subject to return there was no restitution. That's what's wrong with the Bombelles family, but it's about each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69617	Thank you. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69618	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, in this pathetic speech by Mr. Gordan Beus Richembergh, there could be a lot of correction. I'll fix only two. First, it is incorrect to place the claim that they were being led as it seems from your speech some major war operation after 9.5.'45. which could cause this number of victims. That's how I understood your speech. Secondly, it is also incorrect that this was motivated today, the adoption of this law by the statements made by Mr Tomislav Karamark's interior minister, because it seems to me that a year ago this law was in the first reading. And what is the absurdity of everything in our country is that this law is linked to the current policy, or political parties and elections. Please explain nicely to the Croatian public what this has to do with hundreds of thousands of victims in '45. the years with the election. If someone feels responsible, I don't know why people today feel responsible for going to the election tomorrow, about these events. You can explain that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69619	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69620	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, absolutely incorrect quote from colleagues, Richembergh, that an active resistance was given from May 9th to May 15th, that it was still fighting. 200 thousand Croatian soldiers of the Domobran and Ustasha laid down weapons and so-called weapons, disarmed to kill in the Bleibur field, for this there are witnesses still living in Austria today, people who will testify about this blood crime, and that is confirmed by Tito himself when he said after 17 May in a speech in Ljubljana that he killed 200 thousand bandits and that he has no one to answer to.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69621	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69622	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The proportions of communist crimes committed, and the nature of the regime at the time, are most clearly mentioned by a large number of covered and unmarked graves in Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. These cemeterys testify to the most severe type of crime, systematic mass executions. In the past 20 years, various ways have been recorded and part of a location of approximately 1,000 such cemeterys, most in Croatia more than 700, and Slovenia more than 500, including most likely the most massive one in Tenzna, Maceljska forest and Jazavka. It is estimated that it is only part of the hidden cemetery, where at the end of the war and in the first year of the war, killed members of the defeated Croatian, Slovenian, Montenegrin and German armies, as well as numerous civilians of Croatian and other nationalities and even children. Researchers found 718 tombs, of which 628 mass and 171 individual tombs, were found in Croatia. In 84 tombs, more than a hundred victims were buried, and of which, in 40, more than 300 were buried. It is estimated that there are more than 89 thousand bodies in these pits. No case against the communist regime's defendants in the last 20 years has been ended by a judicial verdict for a crime, so it turns out the same didn't happen, although we know that's not the case. Regardless of that, we still have hope that those perpetrators, who are still alive, even though they are at an advanced age, will be prosecuted, because crime is a crime and never gets old. It would be desirable to make peace with the truth, to show remorse for the misdeeds, to try to reconcile with the victims and their living relatives, to ask forgiveness and to ease their conscience. And remember, at the end of the war, the country was the most soaked in the blood of the victims killed without a court. This was done by various communist formations throughout Croatia, and it is estimated that in the vicinity of Sisak and Banovina, the revenge was the most pronounced because there lies up to 45 thousand victims. Follow the surroundings of Krapina, Macelj, and Zagorje. There's been a lot of evidence in the caves that tells us about the identity of the victims and how they're liquidated. Mass graves were often destroyed and destroyed, turned into dumps, and covered up in various ways, so the victims and their graves simply did not exist. Families killed, if they knew or assumed where the cemetery was located, were not allowed to visit or mark them. Yet, neither the fear of the regime nor the flow of the decade have suppressed that sacrifice in their relatives or friends, but neither the still frightened witnesses nor the perpetrator of the crime. We at HSS consider it necessary to identify all these cemetery sites, mark them with an appropriate mention of the features, and enable funeral rituals to be held by all religions, to demonstrate piety to victims, and therefore, together with the HDZ Club, we have proposed the adoption of this law. We believe that families should be allowed to live up to their grief over the loss of their fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters, sons and daughters, who could not survive because of the uncertainty about the place and the time of execution, because of the conspiracy to keep quiet about the crime, i.e. bans on the very mention of the tired. This law raises the voice against totalitarianism, especially against the concealment and relativisation of terrible communist crimes, whose consequences we still feel. For the human mind, it's almost inexplicable that a grown man, for whatever reason, takes the life of another human being. It's against the nature of man. Something is deeply insolent about him. Taking the lives of people who belong to a particular people or not supporting an ideology is even stupider and more difficult to understand. Unfortunately, though, we are witnessing that this was happening, and it is happening. According to the Christian view of the relationship with the victims, it is the sacrifice that needs to be focused in terms of revealing the truth and respecting its integrity. The victims of the past are still being manipulated for the purpose of obtaining some gain in the present or the future. In particular, in Croatia, some victims seem to have the right to the status of the victim, and some of them seem to have been denied the right and some victims are innocent, and for some, it is implicitly suggested that they are themselves guilty of being in the wrong place at the wrong time. When it comes to victims of the communist regime, especially Bleiburg and the crossroad, it is up to Croatian historians to determine the final number of victims of this human disaster, which was painfully cut into the collective memory of Croats. Today, more than half a century from the tragedies I mention here, it is completely unclear how part of modern Croatian historians still find some justification for Jasenovac, Bleiburg or crossroad. Bleiburg and the crossroad, but other communist crimes are serious traumas of the Croatian people, and until they light up, there will certainly not be a step in the face of the crimes of their own people and no cleansing of memory will occur. Even though the years of less and less those who can testify to their experiences and horrors of World War II and of porn, it is important that their help and testimony in the truth be given to a new generation and to keep an adequate understanding of these events, with all the roughness and need to clean up memories. New generations, especially children and young ones, have the opportunity to shed light on the truth that can only free us from open and hidden conflicts stemming from the manipulation of the truth. We advocate that all truthful means are being investigated as soon as possible by all aspects of the event before, during and after World War II, although it has been so long, and in it many opportunities and efforts not only are not in vain today but it is necessarily necessary. It is necessary to make an effort to make available all relevant documents and testimonies, to open archives that have to do with the understanding of the overall context, to apply a valid scientific method that is longing for truth and commitment for good. A job that can look exclusively like a historian's assignment. Because it is usually said to be a profession, and others need to turn to the future. This job is not just about historians, it's about each and every one of us. We know that much, especially peace, depends on each one of us, on our wishes, attitudes, our words and gestures, but first of all on our efforts to be open to the truth. The names of the victims, their lives, their personal walk through darkness bind us to seek the truth. Hundreds of sites in Croatia need truth to which nothing is added, from which nothing is left behind. A truth that will not be silenced by new ideologies and promoted to the level of new humiliation and crime. The Croatian population during the 20th century was struck by a tragedy that, according to Pope John Paul II. marked by three great evils, fascism, Nazism and communism. To justify a totalitarianism, i.e. to cover up and overcome the injustice that he has done, means to bring lasting unrest into society and the public because historical lie is also a crime. Questions related to World War II and the totalitarian regimes of the 20th century will not cease to bring unrest and enmity into our society until the same measure is applied to all totalitarian regimes and the same measure is guaranteed to all victims. Every victim of terror is the tragedy and shame of humanity. Each victim should remember to be marked with dignity, and such a tragedy should no longer be repeated. Because of the victims of communist crimes whose bones are scattered and whose graves are not known, the HSS, with HDZ, referred to the parliamentary procedure of the bill on finding and marking, maintaining the graves of the victims of communist crimes after World War II. This law applies to victims in the past. So, at a time in which legal, but also general civilizational provisions on the right to a fair trial apply. In the area of the Republic of Croatia, mass killings occurred after World War II ended. Many of the reasons for the serious communist crimes of that period are true, but they all share the death of political opponents because of their different thoughts and feelings. They were killed without trial or in mounted trials without defence rights. All victims killed under such circumstances are innocent and deserve full respect. The Croatian Parliament accepted the European Declaration of Conviction of Communist Crimes, and on 30 June 2006, it adopted a Declaration on the Conviction of Communist Crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia from 1945 to 1990. The declaration condemns all communist crimes listed in Article 2. Resolution 1471 of the Council of Europe. The victims of communist crimes are, as determined by the Council of Europe Declaration, killed in the name of ideology, class of combat, and the principles of dictatorship and proletariats. According to the declaration, their victim is the result of a disagreement with the criminal communist regime. The international community has not condemned the perpetrators of these crimes as it did with the terrible crimes of Nazism. These victims have been erased from memory history because there are no records of their number, nor of the marking of the remains in their unknown graves. This prevents the convenient marking of victims’ graves and honors earned. Rehabilitation of victims of communist crimes is our duty. Marking their graves is our debt to the past and to the future. We can't return the victims, but we can and must give them due respect. This law determines how to find and maintain the graves of victims of communist crimes from the post-World War II period. So here we want to say once again that this is a law that goes in the direction of decent marking the graves of small people who didn't really have much choice at the time of the big conflict. Just because Croatia was small in this war and for reasons of occupation of 2 totalitarian systems, fascism and Nazism, and the ruthless Ustasha authorities in Zagreb, and then the People's Liberation Forces that were increasingly blushing as the war neared the end of someone in a village ended up where the first stronger of course under the threat of arms picked him up and took him. Victims of that period include persons killed in communist persecution, trial, prisons, and camps. Equally worthy markings deserve victims killed abroad by the communist Yugoslav regime and organised by Yugoslav secret services. Most of these murders have never been investigated or recorded. This bill should allow all communist victims to pay tribute after finding and marking graves. Communist crimes are known for their ideological hatred and unrecognized ethnic investigations. We want to point out by this law that every human person has the right to human dignity even after death because it is a fundamental ethical principle. In order to end the demeaning and silence of these unrecognized victims of war and porn and to allow for the right to the public and the pedagogy, an objective and complete study of these war crimes and crimes against humanity is needed, historical facts need to be established and paedagogy of reconciliation and forgiveness based on them. For forgiveness is a prerequisite for reconciliation. You can't call for reconciliation and keep silent about forgiveness and the need for the perpetrator to become aware of the evil done and ask for forgiveness. That silence suggests avoiding speech of guilt and responsibility. Every crime has an perpetrator. The process of forgiveness includes both the victim and the perpetrator. That would be the only logical thing. This process is also different for the victim and the perpetrator, and in this case for the families of those victims. To understand this difference, it is primarily necessary to underline the difference between the victim and the perpetrator and the primary victim to acknowledge the victim. We at the HSS club propose this law and we do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69623	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69624	Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr Hebrang, as a proponent of this bill in one of his last sentences, said that this legislative proposal was sent to the parliamentary procedure four years ago. ... What about two years ago? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. It's my opinion that you wanted in HDZ all the cemetery you were in that period, almost all that I wasn't exaggerating, so it could be marked. But apparently he's chosen a real timer and that's the point and that's the only thing that sort of delegates this parliamentary initiative. By politicizing simply rose pies to the victims. I'm not doing it, as you're not going to tell me, gentlemen, that Sanader is guilty that the law didn't come in the process. Finally, a few months ago, we received a report from the Ministry of Interior for 2009, and there is no mention of the police's involvement in this matter. And that's the same problem, and that's what delegates these initiatives. But that's typical I'd say about this power. On the one hand, we can see that the country's economic downturn, on the street, is asking for letters to be sent to her by the Prime Minister, who is working on digging up the cemetery, or keeping Mark's square. This is what we're going to talk about today, about this initiative, probably one day, about opportunities in the country about everything that's been going on on the Blood Bridge, we've talked about today for 15 minutes. If we were to invite the Prime Minister to explain the conditions of this law to the Parliament, it would come within the time limit, and when it comes to protests and broken heads and blood in the Blood Square.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69625	Go back to the agenda, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69626	To go back to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69627	That's right, to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69628	It is not a controversial initiative, a way, a time, delegated simply by the proposings. I have not once said that Gemma is simply not a tomb and that every innocent victim should be rehabilitated, should be Christianly buried and be mourned. It is clear that the crime, crime, committed by the fascists or communists, committed by Serbs in the aggression against Croatia or by the same crime is what happened, for example. In the Paki plain or in the surrounding Sisak there in the '90s. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69629	Excuse me a moment, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely pleased to welcome on your behalf and my own behalf the guests who have just joined us in the gallery. Members of the delegation of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Republic of Hungary, led by Mr Michael Ballae, president of the Committee. It's a warm greeting. ... Thank you, I'm sorry. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69630	I'm not defending the crime any less, I'm going to defend the criminal. I will defend the normal truth. First, one team came to power on the basis of that sentence that NDH was the pursuit of the Croatian people, unlike those of us who claim that antifascism created Croatia. True, a Mr. Banc's thesis has recently appeared that Croatia would be without anti-fascism. The thesis is probably accurate, but it would be Croatia without one Istria, without Rijeka, Zadar, without the island, one word would be seen from the Zagreb cathedral. A step further has been going lately, so the current president of the Croatian Helsinki Committee, Mr. Cicak, said that if Manulic is responsible for Croatia, then Croatia better to fail. Mr. Manulic, who I don't know how to judge, was another man of one regime since '91. Until '94. I think Croatia must outlive one Chick and Banc and Manulić and Caine and all of you sitting here or sharing these benches with me. If on the other hand we see one obsession to the borders of the Ban of Croatia in Bosnia, if we judge Prime Minister Manolic who was also the vice president of the HDZ, if we judge the Minister of Police Bolekovac in Salzburg is Sanader, one vice president has been convicted, several police chiefs also, some have problems with the International Amnesty not to list anything further, then the man asks himself the question, who created the Croatian state? The Croatian state was clearly not created by our kleatomians, nor by Ustashas, nor by communist terrorists or killers after the war, but by the will of the Croatian people, and so clearly one authority should always be different from the state and the people themselves. But every authority of the Lord speaks also of the state, and of the people, he speaks of himself. Why is this question opening today? What can this government offer? The police go to the protesters, unemployment is 330, I don't know 5 thousand people. I read this morning that industrial production is down 6.7% compared to 2010. And it's actually a theme, because it wants to bend the truth. Sanader did it much more elegantly, gently, over Thompson, is that it cost people but it didn't go to trial, and these have to put a little bit of weight to the bone if they don't want to collapse. I couldn't agree more with everyone in the world to paraphrase Karamark is evil. Both fascism and communism, and Nazism, and Bolshevism, and nationalism but also Croatian antifascism affirmed Croatia. And the fact is, he was led by communists. It's also a fact everywhere except perhaps in Istria when he rose and rose. Well, I'll tell this family, and my family, not on my side, on the woman's side, may be a symbol of a communist death. Here's Mr. Shetic, he knows it very well. My wife's grandfather, his sister, also from Partizan ended up in Foybe. If someone wants their remains found and those people buried Christianly, it's me. I'm somewhere if it was '96, 7th, don't take my word for it, I picked up as you say to the Lapida, the gravestone of the 7th, the 8th, the Zagreb professors who ran from Zone A into Zone B and were killed somewhere in Završje. We marked human, buried 110 remains mostly of Germans in the Buzet cemetery. A man asks himself a question, could I have done more? I probably will, but I'll also say what I've been doing, I've been working on my own, because all of this is in the jurisdiction of the DORH on the one hand or the MUP on the other, which has done nothing in 2009, but also in the previous years. So to explore absolutely that, the hack of people not, rematchism not, normally if someone is a criminal, is a criminal should be answered, politicizing normally not, and I think it's just behind this kind of bill. Was there a crime after the war, it was. Whether innocent victims should be rehabilitated, so clearly they should. But if we question the entire NOB, what someone wants to say, then ex Yugoslavia, then Croatia came to Istria, to the river, to Zadar, on which basis, crime, phobia, I don't know. I say better citizens who are just staying there. And finally, I said something personal. Once again, I will say that every innocent victim should be rehabilitated, be mourned, and be Christianly buried, I guess. The second is that the victims of Bleiburg, as some call them, of these crossroads, we always draw when the Government fails to do anything concrete in this country with its own measures. So every innocent victim should be Christianly buried, rehabilitated, but also not falsify history. And history is about like this, 10.4.'41. A criminal NDH was formed, it was a state that was placed under the patronate of Hitler, Mussolini, that state that was based on war crimes and sold Dalmatia Italy, in Kerestinco... There were mass liquidations happening to the Jasenovac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the capitulation of Germany, only Pavelic continued to fight until 15.5.'45. year, so about seven, eight days after Germany's capitulation when it died somewhere around 1500 NOB fighters in those seven or eight days. Unfortunately, he wasn't meant to be. On the other hand, Tito's partisans said they raised a uprising or those communists, communists everywhere except perhaps in Istria. The truth is that in the '43s, some Mr. Šetić denied me, among the Croat communists there was hardly any, there were some among the Slovenians, there were among the Italians. The Croatian communists had mostly left Istria before between '20 and '39, '40, so it wasn't hard for them in '41. define and stand on the right side. Of course, many, many innocent people died after '45, it's true that few people were tried, but it's also true that no one was killed in Bleiburg and I'm also asking myself why this event was constantly there in 15.5. While Croatia was not independent, it makes sense to me, but I agree with President-in-Office's proposal that this should be reconsidered and that perhaps somewhere else in front of the Church of Croatian Martyrs should be marked in the future. Let the honor of those who have suffered innocents in every tomb, however, mark the gatherings in front of the monuments in Bleiburg where it stands "in honor and glory to the defeated Croatian army" so I think it is at least degutant. Is JNA after '45? She committed crimes, she did. Why, many innocents have been killed. If Tito had told Hebrang about those crimes, he would have known, so he had to know. Whether it was meant to prevent retribution, of course it was. Whether thousands of women and children were killed on those crossroads, it's clear. Clearly, this should be judged in some way, but the truth is also that she wanted to side with the Allies, continue the war against the new authorities, that they fought 7.8 days and after the capitulation of Germany. It's all just the truth. It is also true that many who were killed were dirty hands with blood, clearly no one from Jasenovac, to paraphrase, no one was killed in Jasenovac was responsible for Bleiburg, to paraphrase Mesic, but that is why many of them were responsible for Jasenovac in Bleiburg. I agree, killing someone without a court is an absolute crime, so whenever that crime happened. So put marks on every site of innocent victims and don't let that shame happen with Francetic's monument, too. Many, I've already said, the innocent were killed and in Istria I said mine. When all the children were in the Partisans, some even made a career in those warlords, no, my wife's father was a stoner from birth to death, and he didn't just do it. But no matter what, we simply do it without politicizing, and I'm afraid that the moment chosen to discuss this Law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of the victims of communist crimes is going in the direction that the official government is trying in some way to cancel this voice of the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69631	First one notice. The Committee on Economy will be held today at 13:30 in the hall of Ivan Mažuranić, Hall 84. Now we have several applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69632	Mr. Vice President. In order to deny Mr Cain's statement that politicizing has delegated this legal proposal of HDZ and HSS clubs, I must say that in the first reading of this law came July 2, 2009, so I do not see how you are bringing this into context with Mr Karamark's statements recently. And I also want to say that the Council of Europe resolution said that honoring the victims and condemning the perpetrators is the basis for reconciliation, so it's time for you and Mr. Cain to finally get back together with this. One time someone needs to do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69633	Thank you. Correction of the quote, colleague Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69634	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to correct a few allegations of incorrect Mr. Caine who he's repeated at a previous reading. But what I want to correct is that it is not true that one team came to power because it said that NDH was also an expression of the aspirations of the Croatian people. The truth is that at one point the president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, said, but the team came to power because it had a programme that was accepted by the vast majority of Croatian people. You know that very well. Another thing, I repeat again, explain why this is politicization. Why is this politicization if it's been 65 years, you owe it to the public. And third, what I already corrected you once when you said that nobody got hurt on Bleiburg. I'd like to refer you back to the BBC movie, direct you to Partisan General Koč Popović, Milan Basta and others, and take a look at these historical sources before you start here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69635	Thank you. Correction of the quote by distinguished colleague Nevio Šetić. Here you go. Come here if the microphone doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69636	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I want to correct Mr. Cain's allegations that the fact that antifascism in Istria was led by a communist. It is only in one small part true, because it should be said precisely that the antifascism that we are accepting today has just grown on those people who have been expelled from Istria, expelled between the two wars and they have returned first to Istria like your Buzovčan Anton Cerovac Toncic would of course have been the only ones organized. But a congregation that somehow integrated Istria in Croatia on September 13, '43. there was almost one plebiscite, from parishioners, from priests to hard workers, lawyers and members of the Communist Party of Croatia. I think it's important to say. And fellow Caine, who touched another question today, I'd like to say the following. Just before the end of World War II, Croatian communists from Istria were replaced by orthodox Yugoslav personnel such as Mate Kršulj, who was at the head of the Communist Party of Croatia there replaced the orthodox Yugoslav forces, it seems to me that Tom Curubija is Serbian from Knin because they have just run out of understanding about them, and this started from somewhere in autumn 1944. Same thing happened to SCOY. So, just in '45. In the end of the war we entered with those forces that did not accept democratic processes and multilateral as the possibility of democratic development. And that's where antifascism got one stain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69637	Thank you very much. Furthermore, a respected colleague, Milinkovic, appeared to correct the allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69638	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain used to say more incorrect allegations. Of course, I'm stuck with the teaming and the way he delegates the proposal. Well, no time can a dear colleague encourage us to mark places of death of innocent victims, innocent people, and to honor those places with dignity and honor. Furthermore, there is talk of politicisation. So you fellow dears are politicizing, you go from left to right and at the end, and you forget that human life is one and unrepeated and every man deserves a decent end to life, and is it dignified for you... people in places, in different places [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Surely you do not understand and try to relativize it, and that is unacceptable. [[Intruder Friščić: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69639	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Daniel Srb, rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69640	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Cain pointed out first of all that he spoke without politicizing, but this is the politicization of a pair of excellence because in fact the exposure turns into something deeply inhumane contrary to any of today's civilizational fluids, and in fact, at the death of people of whom the vast majority of innocents actually want to go through it with one policy. It's totally unacceptable. So, among other things, a concrete statement that it fought until 15.5. etc. By 1.6, they fought in some parts of Croatia because people were killed to the last because they were aware that they would all be slaughtered together with civilians if they laid down their weapons. Well, they didn't, because it started by practically even ethnic cleansing in East Face and southwestern Bosnia on July 27th, '41. No NDH armies were there, all civilians were slaughtered and killed. And that's what people fought for, they fought only to survive, just to stay alive, that's all they cared about. And then, you know, they're still being talked about like that here in this High House today. Unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69641	Thank you. And esteemed colleague Frano Matušić, rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69642	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain said that someone wanted to reduce the importance and results of NOB's bill. It's not true, it's not true. No one wants to diminish, but we want to shed some light on what's really been going on. For 50 years, it wasn't possible. Now we want to finally shed light on Europe's Council Resolution, based on the European Parliament, and we want to say that the communists were criminals because they killed hundreds of thousands of people, that Tito was a criminal. We want to say simply as we say Stalin was a criminal, these are historical facts that are obviously not acceptable to you today, although they are acceptable to the whole world. The Council of Europe condemned three totalitarianisms in Europe – fascism, Nazism and communism. You're obviously not ready to say that communism was a totalitarian, dictatorial, criminal regime. What the European Parliament is saying and what the Council of Europe is saying as the greatest truth that speaks of human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69643	Thank you, colleague Matušić. Something... My colleague Cain spoke, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed colleague of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69644	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Just a few points of view on the subject so far, so they don't turn the subject in the direction this law does not determine. On behalf of HNS, my colleague Beus said a few things that really characterize this law and are therefore incorrect. He says, "This law came after Mr. Karamark's statement that criminals should be prosecuted on the communist side both in the Second World War and after it." It's simply incorrect. This law is in the process as I said four years ago, and the first reading came a year and a half ago. Why so long? I'm also responding now to fellow Caine who said this is a real teaming, I guess it means the right time in Croatian, to draw attention to something else with this law. Not my colleague Cain, he's not turning his attention because four years ago, I had no idea what a police situation would be like here. So why have we waited so long? We waited two years for the party bodies to pass because the assessment was that the public and the media would not accept such a law well, and that was why it was waiting and you know when it passed through the party bodies of the Croatian Democratic Community? When we watched those scary scenes on TV from the newly discovered Hude Cave, when we looked at mummified bodies, when we looked at kids tied to their parents' wires, then it was a good time to go out with this, with a high probability that we wouldn't come across a wall of silence, or worse still on the wall of rejection as colleagues now want to show us. So it has nothing to do with Mr. Karamark, who behaves and performs his duty. He's obliged to prosecute the perpetrators of all crimes, and it's a good thing he started it and it needs to be run. This law doesn't deal with it. This law mentions the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of the Interior only in the context of the reporting of the newly discovered postmortem remains, as this is in accordance with Croatian laws. Also a colleague, Beus, mentioned something by colleague Cain, asks what is between May 9th and 15th, '45. when were those who gave the armed resistance killed? My colleagues, this law doesn't speak of armed conflicts at all. In armed conflicts, priority should be given to a law-abiding person. If there were armed conflicts, between May 9th and May 15th, then those killed in that armed conflict, as I initially said, are probably those official authorities that killed them under the law in an armed conflict and buried with their name and last name. These graves we're talking about, tens and tens of thousands of graves have no names or last names. And Mr Mesic wanted to turn into World War II in the debate, as Mr Beus and Mr Cain now wanted. This law does not speak of war events, for it should be passed another law, the Law on Military Cemeteries, and I am for it to be passed, and whoever is expert on that period to propose it, I will surely support it. What's still to be said here is that there wasn't a thought of politicization either, because if it were then we'd come out right after the law was written. This wait was precisely to try to find time without political weight, in which the law could come to another reading. Unfortunately, between the first and second reading, it has been many years and a half, which is not politicisation, but has been listening to the remarks we received, and we have received from different resolutions and different ministries a whole series of remarks, and here is the Secretary of State Mr. Adanic, who, thanks him, helped to clarify these remarks and it lasted weeks and months. And that's why the law comes today. And in the end, I don't want to be any longer. It's never too late to honor the victim, it's never the time to honor the victim. So please don't politicize when we're not the ones who made the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69645	Thank you. Correction of the quote, colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69646	Of course, the pit isn't a tomb, there's no cat in the pit, let alone a man throw. You say, you mention a hell of a pit, but before that to one of your colleagues. I didn't have any MPs with communism.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69647	A colleague of Caine's. Correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69648	... second why are you being so... [[Specially enabled.]] [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69649	Do not turn it off, correct your colleague Cain, as the Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69650	Well, it's not until then with the evil pit that he's met what's in all the gaps, so every pit is the same sight wherever it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69651	Comrade Cain, what are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69652	The victims of Communism are simply hiding about it. I agree, let everyone be properly buried, but let this simply not be politicized by the height of innocent victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69653	You haven't fixed anything, but it's not the first time. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture informs that the session will take place at 13:30 in Stjepan Radic's Hall today. And we're moving on with the debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished counterpart of Parliament Vice-President Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for this Law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of the communist regime is directly linked to the European Parliament's resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism, in April 2009. The proposal for this law that we now have before us was sent to the parliamentary procedure in July of the same year 2009. In a European Parliament resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism, the European Parliament recalls the European declaration of declaration of 23 August as the European Day of Remembrance of the victims of Stalinism and Nazism, stressing the importance of keeping the memories of the past alive, because there can be no reconciliation without truth and memory. And reaffirms the European Parliament's unique position against all totalitarian governments of any ideological background, and holds that preservation of historical memory is essential and crucial for strengthening European integration. And calls for the declaration of August 23rd as the European Day of Remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian authoritarian regimes and commemoration with complete impartiality. So this bill is directly based on, several months ago, the European Parliament resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism, and is in line with the Croatian Parliament declaration of 30 June 2006 on the conviction of crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia since '45. '90s. in the year, and with Council of Europe Resolution 1481 of 2006 on the need for convictions for international crimes of totalitarian communist regimes. So it is evident from this that this bill, the final draft of the law which is now in the Croatian Parliament, is in line with international documents, relevant international documents and that they cannot accept that it is in the function of current political events. Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav regime since '45. '90s. For years, he has made huge and great efforts to cover up and cover up traces of crime, the very crimes of the communist regime. To hide and conceal both the employers and the perpetrators, and the victims that simply, it was the strictest kept secret since '45. '90s. A year. She found her response only in immigrant political publicity and history, and in Yugoslavia, in Croatia, it was kept as the most strictly guarded secret that was kept by all possible means not to get the truth about what happened in the postwar period since 9 May '45. years and years and so forth. Why did Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav state and the Yugoslav communist regime cover up and hide these clues and these crimes? Why were there no markings of these mass, hundreds and hundreds of tombs and cemeteries? Why were the victims buried that were killed without a court, buried secretly without any markings in these mass graves throughout Croatia and Slovenia, BiH, Vojvodina? Why did you do that? To cover it up. It was for one reason that Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav state, was making huge efforts to ban any mention or marking of the victims as they called them defeated forces. On the occasion of the official list of victims in 1950, 1964, the instructions were given to all the committees in which it was explicitly stated, and I quote: "All those who lost their lives during the national liberation struggles on the part of the occupiers or domestic traitors in any way as fighters, helpers, sympathisers are not considered victims of war." So all those columns that were killed in the cross road to Vrsac, to Macedonia, throughout Croatia, BiH that were killed without trial are not considered victims of war and should not have been listed. That's why they wanted to hide it. And why would he want to hide? Not only are they considered victims of war, those who are designated as enemies or who could become enemies and who are therefore executed, liquidated and killed without a court of law, to cover it up. Why hide? Not only is it intended to be covered up for ideological doctrines and estimates that those who are designated as enemies need to be covered up by their liquidations, to conceal, to hide their graves and tombs. It wasn't just a reason to hide it just like that, to find out what the reason was, the real reason why these mass liquidations and cemeteries immediately from the beginning wanted to hide and hide. So I will now give you the reasons from the official sources of the regime at the time. Why were these tens and tens of thousands killed by Maribor, by Teznog, Kočevsky horn, Maceljska forest, near Krapina, at all the tombs and cemeteries of Sisak, Osijek, Vinkovac, Rjan, Istria, all possible tombs and cemeteries, why were the nature of these crimes covered up? Why does the new government, the new regime not even execute them, that it did, we kill the members of the defeated forces, kill the enemies, why hide it? Croatian Public Prosecutor in mid-July '45. As regards the situation in the territory of Croatia, the Public Prosecutor of Yugoslavia writes about the executions carried out: "In Croatia, the headquarters of the operational units in the days of large capture, and afterwards, ordered and allowed the killing without court. Publicly or even irresponsiblely innocent people are being killed, the murdered are leaving almost unburied, and they're doing it according to the OZNA and the National Police." Report by the Federal State of Croatia of the Ministry of Interior in July '45. For years, it says that the organs of OZNA are robbing, killing people without a court of law, not burying them or burying them with honor. The OZNA report from the Slavonia area says: "Nearly 102 people have been liquidated without a court, and around 3 liquidations have not been conducted necessary procedure to prove the guilty of the arrested, some have not even been taken away from the need for generals. And some members of OZNA, the OZNA section, executed on their own and gave orders for execution." And the conclusion is said in this report: "The reason for these liquidations was the point taken in Slovenia not only by OZNA but also by other institutions that, without many scruples, those who know they are enemies and who will be against us tomorrow. So OZNA evaluated who could be against us tomorrow, so it needs to be liquidated immediately. In the Black Lug near Našica, the Black Stream near Našica documents where a group of peasants who escaped after the collapse of Italy from Primorje and who were when Germany took over... occupation power, fled to Slavonia, peasants and a good part of the members of the left HSS. In that forest near Nasic in the Black Stream, they are liquidated, over a hundred of them with an explanation that they are the enemies of NOB. And they're asking for more command there than 12. Slavonic divisions, requesting approval, confirmation for these liquidations. He says, we had to liquidate them because it was a situation, we couldn't check them out much, we had to liquidate them, and the higher command says, you made a mistake, you made a mistake, you made a mistake. And nothing to anyone. Today, we have been in the Black Stream for years already to commemorate the truly innocent victims who have been killed and liquidated. This marking, these cemeterys, these victims of that communist regime are involved in this law. That these innocent victims who have been killed without a court, a crime that has been hidden for 45 years, which should now finally be created with dignity once by a mechanism not to be avenged, not for revenge, but for true reconciliation that cemeteries, tombs should be properly marked, preserved and that all these victims of these terrible crimes of '45 are given away. '90s. the years and those who were killed by the Yugoslav marriage around the world as political emigrants also liquidated without a court and without a court. Those who have survived, even if they are 100 years old, have to face justice, even though they are not sure how much they deserve to be created earlier in Croatia and Yugoslavia, as well as today's Croatian state. There's no alibi for the crimes of that caliber.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69655	Thank you very much. It's the SDSS club and the esteemed colleague Rako Gajica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69656	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll say something first that we have no doubt about. Research and finding of the crimes and graves of all innocents in particular is also necessary, and also communist crimes as it is said in this document, because we consider this to be a relationship to the victim and the pie that must be shown to her. Once again, we have no doubt about it and we have no problem with it. However, despite our stated attitude, we will not be able to support this law. I'll explain why. In the spring of '96. In Knin, the Memorial of the Liberation of Knin and Dalmatia was brought down, a memory of the blood events of the month 11th of '44. The monument had no ideological features. It was a simple architectural solution, the people called it a signpost. But the most important thing, at the base of the monument was the mention of a skeleton with about 400 remains known and unknown. And when the monument is torn down, there's a dump there, I could use a uglier and more rude word, but I'm not going to repeat it here, about the state it's in right now. Now, there's something else important. If this feature and this tomb is now in such a state and it lasts very long, it lasts more than 10 years, then that means it's meant to stay that way. I have one more thing to mention here. The monument was collapsed at a time of complete control of space and events. It couldn't have happened without official permission, and forgive me for saying, without the resident patronage, and now I'm going to stop in that story about the Knin Monument. I could name it here, but I'll just mention the mention of the skeletons and mention the area of Jadovno, then Peter's mountain. I hope some of you have at least seen photos of the current situation. This situation is embarrassing, it's very similar to what I've talked about in more detail, it takes a very long time and it takes a lot of effort to change it. I'm mentioning this here because in order for us to have the same relationship with the victims, to have a fair relationship with the victims, then between what we're talking about today and what I'm talking about here right now, we need to establish a proper or rational or whatever the relationship is, because that relationship is actually a criterion for the same relationship with all the victims. There's one more thing I'm going to mention here. I can't claim that it is, but precisely because of this relationship, the question is, is whether the condition of these monuments that I have chosen here or dared to count, is this an indication of NOB, is that an indication of antifascism. I wish he hadn't. I wish he hadn't. But when we talk about these things and these things from today's topic and my conditional terms and those of tomorrow that someone else is going to say with this title piety to the victims, it's clear that they necessarily create public messages, arouse emotions about very important things. About this sensitivity both to our and to the public I think it must be taken care of, because in this matter should be just, should be very careful, should speak the established truth, should respect the facts, should acknowledge everyone's suffering, should establish a relationship equally with everyone. I'm not going to argue here that this bill makes it impossible, but I'm opening up the question of whether we're solving this whole complex in relation to which we have to have that attitude. I was once told when I said something like that, so let's make a suggestion of the law, and we'll do the other thing that didn't go in here to standardize. It's not my opinion now that each of us is bidding to prepare and regulate what he likes. In this House and from this place, we need to ensure in this sensitive issue the same relationship without the rest to prevent resistances and possible manipulations. Possible political manipulations. We do not have in Croatian society the degree of understanding of things as much as we do in this room, and this should be taken into account. Now, that's why I repeat, I agree that the law does not establish it, but because of this doubt that I have raised here, it seems to me that by this law, by solving one thing, by solving two things, by solving not all of us establishing double standards because we lack a message to close an honest social relationship and according to what I don't mention. And if we set up double standards, there will be people who will use it to review history. They'll find each other. I wouldn't want it to be done. And it's because of these leftovers that I have doubts about this proposal with all due respect, with an apology that you don't mind my saying, it doesn't seem credible. That's perfect, first of all. This is precisely because of this fear and the fact that we are now unique in relation to all the sufferings, we will not be able to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69657	Thank you, colleague Gajica. We have one correction to the quote, colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, it's an incorrect assumption that you're so sensually in favour of equal treatment with all the victims. Since that's how I'd like to give her one example, if you stood up the same way in Serbia, then we'd build a monument for victims who were beaten innocent after mass just as you started a monument for the rebels. Then I'd believe it's equal standards and criteria for all the victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69659	It is up to the HDSSB club and distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69660	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I wanted a similar correction as Mr. Djakic told Mr. Ratko Gajica that the very proposal for this law is actually what Croatian history can explain to the end, and the events that Mr. Seks spoke of, which were kept secret here for 60 years. For 45 years in Yugoslavia and 20 years none of it has been revealed specifically in this independent state of ours. Some documents say, and when it comes to Serbs and monuments for which Croatian taxpayers single out money and which marks so-called "Serb". the day of the uprising was once, a uprising that cost the innocent population's heads as said Mr. Serb East Like and Southwest Bosnia, so I would only remind you Mr. Gajica that 27.7. in Brotanja next to the Boricevic killed the innocent 38 Ivezic. I'm talking about the last name Ivezić, the youngest of whom was 2 years old, and on the night between August 1st and August 2nd, '41. The year was completely burned down by a destroyer in Lika, and I say the people went towards Kulen Vakuf. It was not their salvation, but on September 6, 1941, however ideologically you call it, the Communists or I don't know who attacked Kulen Vakuf where 6 hundred Croats and Muslims, unarmed, naked were slaughtered. So we don't have a mark for those victims. No one has given from the Croatian state budget a single kuna for these victims. There's no Warrior today. It is deleted from topographic maps and Croatian states. And the Spanish woman between Požega and Pakrac and her is gone. It was a new village. It's only today that the name is returned. That's what we need to talk about today. It's a truth that we should all be aware of and we shouldn't hide. That's how it was. That's what historians know more about than I do. But my history is a hobby, so I know that a lot. They say there were no casualties on Bleiburg even from the former president or they say there was very little. I repeat the witness statement, which my father was born to, that domestic flag school pitomatists, Ilica 242 aged 15 to 18 who did not take the gun in hand were killed, 72 of them in Bleiburg and their 8 civilians professors. Let Mr Mesic know about this and the Croatian public and I read sad and sad memos and reports of living witnesses who say that here is just one example of the slaughter of children of homes in the urban area here in Zagreb. These massacres have the only preserved authentic documentation conducted by the authorities of the people who have committed them. Children's executions were done in the evenings or at night, and the victims were naked. More than 500 male and female children between the ages of 7 and 15 were killed at the site of Pustodol, and we do not need to mark it. Should we forget? Our children, our grandchildren need to know about this because one proverb says dead eyes open, and only innocents are dead. How they open their eyes to this people and to the citizens, to everyone. I'm not for us to make new divisions and get into it again. It is true that the first reading of this legislative proposal was on 16 June 2010, Mr Hebrang, just when you adopted, clearly without me, the new Croatian Constitution because I was against it. Then when you proposed in your regulations to set up a community of Serb municipalities in eastern Croatia and which at the last minute actually did not say hidden or obstructed and then released, you timed this topic immediately to the Parliament. Now that the people are on the streets, when citizens are clearly expressing their dissatisfaction, and even defenders in large numbers, there is once again an interesting topic and a bill of law called marking, hence the bill of finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II. It's a long name, so I have to use it. So it is clear that I am also HDSSB's club supports this legislative proposal. But we notice things like this. So, 16.6. was the first debate, the first reading, just on the day that with my intervention with Minister Shimonovic, it was written that it was also a defence war, not only a liberating war, but also entered the Constitution and defence. Why did I insist on that? Well, because Serbia-Montenegro's aggression was committed in Croatia, so we defended ourselves and defended ourselves, and it was left out in the proposal. A lot of historians have dealt with this, a lot of documents, a lot of witnesses still living, djakovities, mass graves in Rusevo, all over Dilj Gora, all over Slavonia. And what about Bosnia and Herzegovina with sites no one knows about. Says Mrs Katka Palic of the Bosnian Krupa, so today the Bosniak by nationality, and once was, let's talk Muslims. That thousands of captured members of Croatian armed forces were taken from Bosnia's Krajina, most of the Muslim religion, a small part of Croatian nationality and killed in forests around Livna. And that is why it is good that in this legislative proposal, we have discussed this on the board of Mr Hebrang, that there is both agreement and states such as Slovenia, including Bosnia and Herzegovina, to mark such graves. Based on order 2811 of July 6, '45. The year, which brought the then Minister of Interior of Yugoslavia of the People's Democratic Federation, as it was called, so somehow Mr. Seks, you may know it better, Vicko Krstulovic, he was a minister, a military cemetery was destroyed, and all the crosses and targets were removed from them, according to the graves of the late Islamic religion. Someone knows, someone doesn't know. Someone thinks it's a gun target. So you don't know where the graves are, that's what Mr. Shakespeare said that for 50 years it was a secret, it wasn't supposed to be said, and my father didn't tell me that from Bleiburg he ended up in... on the crossroad. [[You don't understand.]] He hasn't told me for a long time that his brother was brought to Mostar and shot, and he can't be marked because he ended up in Neretva, no sign of Neretva can be marked, a bloody Neretva. So let's let our generations of young people know where they are, Croatian sites, Croatian sites, Croatian graves. Only then can we have peace, as much peace as it can be, and we know that there are still living participants and actors who were perpetrators or commanders, and have not been implemented... Gentlemen, there's no purification. [[You don't understand.]] Some of them were also in the structures of the government of this Croatian state, which is embarrassing, and we knew, we whispered everyone, and the citizens whispered about it, they knew who he was, who he was, who he was, who he was, who he was, who was entering the horses in the churches around Lovreč to students around Imotsky. And now we know, and we shut up again. This Croatian silence is really interesting, which is why I am fascinated by these young people who speak openly, clearly and loudly, young people who have no future. That's why they're frustrated. Where's their future? Did we destroy their future? But at least then we mark the past. Let's mark what really happened. Let's mark what the Croatian people reverse I don't know how much, demographic, economic, economic, sure. Why would anyone object here to this bill? It is true that, as someone said, the timing turns out to be really a timing target, a target zone, so the adoption of the Constitution of the new one, and right after the declaration of the Constitution on 16 June 2010, here's a topic that we might be able to fix maybe some of our image about us, and here in these protests, in this crisis universally, in this crisis, so I won't say once the flood of statements that are unwitting and that are completely out of the mind to say we're having this second reading of the legal proposal on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of communist crimes after World War II. We will support it, but I think that since there are still living participants, as is being prosecuted here in Croatia Mr. Andrija Artuković, Minister of the Government of NDH, my God, everyone is responsible if he was the perpetrator, and if the victim was innocent, and every victim deserves dignity and at least a mark. It's the least we can do for the victims of communist crimes, which were more after World War II than in the war itself. A greater number of people lost, to say head, after World War II, than in the war itself in battle, and that's what we should be silent about? For 20 years, this country has been Croatian, and now we're discussing it. Couldn't we have worked it out before? No matter when HDSSB will always be, and now, for a bill like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69661	Thank you very much. On behalf of independent representatives, on behalf of the club, distinguished colleague Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will support this law, and above all because of the main position that is recognised in this law, and that every crime is a crime, and that every victim has a name and a last name, but that every perpetrator has a name and a last name, and that every employer has a name and a last name, and, of course, it must have a responsibility, regardless of the time of the crime. Innocent victims are innocent victims, and there must be no double standards. It seems to me that we have had such a proper attitude, although very difficult it has occurred, toward the Homeland War. We have it today, let's see where all the trials are happening, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in The Hague, in Serbia, and we have concluded that we all thought the same thing, that the individual crime committed in the Homeland War is not condemnation and defilement of the Homeland War. Although that's the case, there's no reason why these same criteria don't apply to World War II. The criteria should be the same. So equal to everyone. What we can't do, and for moments it seems like a risk here, we can't politicize the victims. We can't manipulate this law either. It must not be used for political accounting, for campaign purposes, for strengthening some factions or anything like that. This is an opportunity to take a civilization step. I am just going to return a little bit on the subject, deliberately not talking about any historical concrete facts, ask you to read the Council of Europe resolution on the conviction of the communist crime of 25.01.2006, so I will draw attention to just some sentences. The assembly is convinced that awareness of historical events is one of the preconditions to avoid similar crimes in the future. In fact, moral assessment and condemnation of crimes committed play an important role in the education of young generations. Then, perception of national interests must not prevent countries from adequately criticising existing totalitarian communist regimes. And what may be crucial to support this law is the assembly believes that this clear position of the International Community will allow for further reconciliation. And it seems to me that we're right in the space of that reconciliation, the debates we've begun to lead a little bit of a bump. Obviously, we need reconciliation, but we need tolerance. I hope that the new generations will be relieved by the adoption of this law of wars that have been fought in this space for decades and that they will turn towards the present. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69663	Thank you, colleague Adlesic. It's the SDP club and the esteemed colleague Daniel Mondekar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69664	Thank you very much, dear vice president, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP Club will support this proposal, and in this short speech I will repeat some of what I talked about during the first reading. If I wasn't talking too much about history here, we'd really been hearing too much about history, even hitting on numbers again, I'll tell you very briefly. World War II was indeed a catastrophic cataclysm that completely marked the world and carried tens and tens of millions of lives. So she marked the world, she specifically marked Europe and so did the Republic of Croatia. In that war today, when we look at the victims, little was black or white, since most of the victims came from the order of civilians who were killed on one side or the other in one way or another. This is precisely why we want to say that once again, the SDP Club condemns any punishment, taking a life without the right to a fair and fair trial. Now from the point of view of 2011, I will tell you what we at the SDP Club consider to be our duty as parliamentary representatives and as a Croatian Parliament as a state institution. It's up to us not to let any more horrors like World War II happen again. It's up to us to identify all the innocent victims of all the nationalities and all the regimes and mark the victims' places. It's up to us to instill in our children civilizational, moral values and turn them over to the future, not the ideologies of the past. It is up to us not to allow one Jasenovac, one Heavy, all the sites regardless of the people who lie there and their nationality to enter the historical forgetfulness. We can't let that happen. It is up to us not to allow a detour from antifascism being a civilizational fluid of the Republic of Croatia and one of the foundations of our country that moves from our Constitution. It is up to us to create a framework devoid of any policy in which our scientific community, primarily I think of historians, professionally and objectively, will do the job of finding and marking the cemetery and it is up to us to make sure that these cemeterys are before the place of piety, not the place of grandeur of different totalitarian regimes. We must also not allow ourselves to bid on the number of innocent victims of all nationalities. And most importantly, that victims are not used for day-to-day political events and bickering because that's how we insult the victim, share society and damage the future. Unfortunately, Croatia had in the '90s to do that in '45. and victims used for day-to-day daily-political activities and even divisions in society. It can't be a case anymore, it's inadmissible. And finally, I'm going to tell you, we need this law because we have to face all aspects of our past, but also close this historic chapter, politically close. Or we close the political story and the political struggle over the dead and leave it to the profession. This chapter must therefore be closed politically and given an expert chance to do its job because our job as parliamentary representatives is in 2011. Our job is now that we have 340,000 unemployed, when we have 80,000 people working, and they don't get paid, when we have an economic downturn, when we have protests, prices rise, and general apathy. That's our job. That's why this job has to be left to the profession because politics isn't the place in '45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69665	On behalf of the SDP club, I'm asking you to take a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69666	On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, I've been looking for a break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69667	Okay. On behalf of the HDZ club, the same break. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. So it's up to 12.41. ... that we agreed to take a break. [[Home is not saved.]] It's been 10 minutes. On behalf of the SDP club, please choose a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69669	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We held a club session and decided once again here to invite you to parliamentaryism and to a much higher degree of democracy than this which we bear witness to today but also in previous months. In fact, this morning, representatives of parliamentary opposition clubs came out here with their initiative and demand that Prime Minister Kosor address us today in the Croatian Parliament and tell us the real truth about who organised the protesters, who funded them because in the last two days we have heard a large number of lies, planting on our account, and we think it's high time for the prime minister to come here and say some things. Our request wasn't constrained, it was put here on behalf of the citizens we represent, who voted for us and who in some way asked of us. That is why we do not expect it to suit us here whether or not the prime minister will come to the House, a representative of the HDZ Club, because this is not a question of party and party interests, but we expect the answer to this is given by the President of the Parliament. Many in this assembly are primarily called on by HDZ people to EU values in the EU, in the way they work in the EU, and then you would have to act that way, not only to speak but to act that way. And this means that in the EU, when citizens are on the road every day, when they protest, when they are dissatisfied, that the prime minister of each EU would come to his national parliament and address the parliamentary deputies and address his citizens. It is a minimum that any prime minister in EU countries would do, except obviously in the Republic of Croatia who wants to be an EU member but obviously very difficult when it comes to living and real EU values. So, once again we ask for the Prime Minister to come to the Croatian Parliament and we expect him to show up here today to explain these things that we have already asked questions this morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69670	Thank you. You can look, you can't order. And she will surely judge according to her obligations. As far as I know, the president has taken over, why. Well, it's not said he's not coming, and it's been said that the President of the Parliament will pass on your request to her. So, it's all there. I didn't say one word to you, so I'm not nervous, but from your benches they come to me. I was ashamed. What am I ashamed of? Of what? Who? Here's the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The HNS and HSU club also joined the DSP's request this morning for the prime minister to come to the parliament and explain, which is a minimum of decency for the Prime Minister to come to the Croatian Parliament, explains, explaining to the Croatian Parliament the two things. First of all, I repeat the statement by the government of the Republic of Croatia's spokesmans about the insinuation that SDP and HNS are behind the protests, above all violence. Secondly, we ask that the prime minister come to the Croatian Parliament and say that she declares the date of the election, above all on the date of the election as zeros for the changes that are necessary and insisting on citizens daily. The practice of ignoring demands, legitimate demands expressed by parties representing the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, and in the public majority, testifys about the haughtiness of the government that has lost any sense of reality, but we stress the game with both interests and legitimate demands both the peoples and the state. We at the HNS and HSU club expect the prime minister to appear in this House. If she had the strength and courage to ask for an explanation of the speaker's statement, to make that statement clear to the spokesman, our question is, who represents the government? Is it spokeswoman or Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor? And now I'm going to be a little ironic, if the prime minister doesn't have time to come to the Parliament and explain his spokesman's statement, then on behalf of the government, let the spokesman Pavic come. If he doesn't have time, let them find some helper. But the minimum courtesy of giving Croatian MPs an explanation of a very difficult one and I would say irresponsible accusations against the opposition parties especially when it comes to violence. We expect the prime minister to show a repeat minimum of decency towards this Parliament and the citizens who have elected parliamentary deputies in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69672	Thank you. President Andrija Hebrang's club of HDZ representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69673	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So we're at the request that you've already repeated this morning, and now we can answer with additional information, because your request encouraged us to see what the Prime Minister's agenda is and whether she can really cancel some of the meetings today and come. I did not go into the jurisdiction of President Opačić, but I did my college duty to you from the opposition clubs as president of the majority party club. So we informed Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, but today she has indeed scheduled such programmes that are of priority interest to the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday, Mr Hannes Swoboda said don't make any new elections before you conclude the negotiations. Not only because of this statement, but because of the government's stance, and I believe you also support this view, that Croatia's priority goal at the moment is to get out of the Balkan pub, to quote Krleža and to join the community of civilised European peoples, namely today Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor is receiving Mrs Reding, Vice-President of the European Commission and Commissioner for Chapter 23, the most important chapter that we still need to work on and work on these next few weeks and months. In addition, he receives representatives of the largest parliamentary IPP group whose 55 representatives of the European Parliament are coming to Zagreb today, headed by the president of the largest parliamentary club of the European Parliament, Mr Daul and at these meetings, preparing tomorrow's big meeting where we will have the opportunity to host these 55 representatives and the president of the club of the largest European party in which we will hear Mr Daul's lecture entitled "Croatia – A new model for enlargement". If we want to be a new model of EU enlargement, then let those working on it do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69674	Thank you. It's a re-intelligence. Meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development at 14:00 in the hall of Janko Draskovic, President Dragica Zgrebec. And now we're moving on to an individual debate. First, a distinguished colleague, Commissioner Dubravka Shuica, applied. Here you go, Comrade Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69676	Mr. Vice President. I wanted to get involved in this debate over this bill. First of all, I would also like to remove at the beginning of the debate that this bill is not in the function of current events, nor is it in the function of these last semi-mermisations whether we want to talk about this law just to introduce some pre-election rhetoric or has indeed decided by the state that after 20 years it is affected, I can say freely, with the spirits of the past. I am convinced that war crimes investigations will be launched during and after World War II, although this law speaks only of the period after 9 May 1945. It binds us to this, as we have already heard, the Resolution of the European Parliament and the Declaration of the Croatian Parliament and the Resolution of the Council of Europe, and it is indeed our task to preserve the historical memory and to honor all the victims, and all this in accordance with the international documents that I have just mentioned. On the trail of this that the Yugoslav regime did everything to cover up these communist crimes, to keep the most strict secret about these crimes, that we could only read about it in immigration presses or secretly hear it in some families. Everything seemed not to come to the truth. And why were those crimes covered up? I'd like to illustrate that by example, Dax. I think you all know where Dax Island is. I want to tell you that I've never had a chance to walk on that Dax before as a child or a girl. So, the Dubrovnikers were never supposed to go there for a swim, we just knew we couldn't, and we didn't know why. Or maybe we knew why, based on the information I told you, we got in our homes. What happened? It happened in 1944 in October of the month when the Partizan troops entered the City of Dubrovnik and the Dubrovnik area, they picked up all the Dubrovnik intelligence or all the ones that meant something at that point in town, from lawyers, doctors to priests, so I'll tell you, you may not know. Pater Perica was executed on the island of Daxa, he's the author of that song that we all love to sing "The Heavenly Virgin, Queen of the Croats". There was no need to talk about it. It was founded in the '90s by the "Daxa 1944/1945." It's called, and the association is made up of descendants, mostly sons and daughters of those people who died in Daxie. They're all about what we're talking about these days and we're saying that it's being said on the other hand that it's for the purpose of the election, it's long since this procedure that Minister Karamarko was talking about started. In 2007, they filed criminal charges, so the Daxa Association has filed criminal charges against an unknown perpetrator. Why am I saying this? I'm talking to you too, Mr. Hebrang, because you represent our club, which is a joint initiative of two clubs. You mention that this law will apply to all those graves and all the victims after 9 May 1945. I see there's an amendment now, so I'd like to ask you to explain later. This happened in October 1944. I think it's inadmissible that this is one example of Daxa because with Dax it all started, that I don't explain it further, so without a trial it was shot then we thought 45 people, but after the recent exhumation that we managed to make and identify because the City of Dubrovnik helped a lot in this process, it was found that 53 people were executed without a court. And I'm just going to tell you, I'm going to quote from a criminal application, so it says that on behalf of the people of Yugoslavia everything is as it goes, that they're sentenced to death by shooting, Dubrovnik, October 26, '44. Then they published another ad issued by the Dubrovnik Military Court on 9.11.In '44, he later said that 12 names and last names were published and were sentenced to death by shooting, at court meetings on November 14th and 15th. They didn't even bother to match the dates when they faked it. So they opened court on 9.11. And on the 14th and 15th, they were sentenced to death by shooting. So much for that, and now that I'm not talking about whose signatures were all there, it doesn't make sense because today we said we weren't going to cause names. But the names of very famous people in Dalmatia are on those signatures. They suggested, the Daxa association suggested even because they knew the names of three people, the names of three people to be heard by those witnesses. I won't speak those names again, I have them here. The witnesses were questioned here. So, according to this criminal report, it's been handled, but unfortunately, there's also an epilogue. So we've already set it all in motion in Dubrovnik. The County State's Attorney's Office sent a letter to the Dax Association on 30 September 2010 and said, "I must quote." "Despite the objectively established liquidation of 45 people although later it was 53 on Daxi from 25 to 27 October '44. the results of the actions carried out, the contents and statements of the witnesses examined, which are not evidenced of certain persons as employers or perpetrators of that crime, the documents which do not provide such information as neither the results of the eyewitnesses, the exhumation and identification of those executed do not provide grounds for the submission of an investigational request against a particular person. So you wouldn't be hoping here are living people. They were witnesses and already the County State Attorney's Office is reporting to the association, and here's the public. It comes out in a Dubrovnik press last week where there's no basis to launch an investigation even though they're alive. Later, journalists asked for a comment on the president of the Croatian Helsinki Committee, Mr. Banc, that he also said in his statement. So, no doubt they didn't do everything in their power. We can't doubt it, of course the State's Attorney's Office should thank you. I'll just read one sentence. We should thank you for the exhumation. Yet in that memo there is a lack of passion. Now, are we going to talk about passion or are we going to talk about facts? That's a big question now. In order not to make it look like we're just dealing with the past here, I have a proposal that I've proposed to the then government and the Ministry of Culture since I was mayor of Dubrovnik, and here I'm going to bring it up today, which is that we're still talking a little bit about the future and which, of course, is related to the past. We're in the City of Dubrovnik GUP... declared mention of the area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course it's a space that's not built, whose design characteristics are given, contained, it has a prominent vegetarian component. The memorial park envisions the construction of the monument of the mark. We are considering that there is a Law on Islands, since there is a Law on First Buying we have proposed and I propose it here today in the Parliament publicly suggest today that Croatia joins the purchase of that island because it is completely private. So I know it's expensive now. But the owners are willing to sell the island, to build on that island, I will say a memorial centre that would be the center of all the victims of the Croatian people as a symbol because it all started with Dax in '44. years as one of the places where the crime began among the first and how to, and all in the spirit of these European declarations and resolutions. I am convinced that in this way we could also valorize the spiritual and historical wealth that this island has since the construction of the Franciscan monastery and all over there, there is no Minister of Biskupić, the Franciscan monastery and all the other facilities that are there. I think it is the right place to pay honors and mentions to the entire Republic of Croatia since a very large number of tourists are coming to Dubrovnik I think that would be in line with this whole story about the European Union. [[Intruder Friščić: Bring the debate to an end.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69677	Thank you. We have two replicas. First of all, dear colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69678	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I just need what my colleague Shuica was saying from the state's attorney's response to a criminal report filed by the persons, actually members of the family executed on Daxie. Well, I think it's worth mentioning names. Why? Because these names are responsible for this crime, so I will only remind myself of the fact that in a book, a publication that was recently printed in Croatia is a photocopied faxil of a letter sent by Ante Jurjevic Baja to the Committee and the UNI which were the head of the region of Dalmatia, and it is precisely about Daxe where it says that intellectuals have been captured, etc. But the scariest thing to do is to outline the real character of this crime and the other communist crimes that followed because this is '44. year, October '44. It sounds like the last sentence of that letter, which reads, "Whatever it takes to kill them must be killed." And that letter was signed by Ante Jurjevic Baja. So, because of these facts and because of the fact that it's obviously very difficult to come to evidence today, very difficult. It's been almost 60, almost 70 years since these events, but there's still evidence, and I've seen from the Dax Society's reply that they're going to make an effort to find out more, new knowledge of this terrible crime where intellectuals, composers, friars have been killed. So, indeed, people who are absolutely nothing responsible for any crimes or any misdemeanor. I think there will be enough material to review this decision again at the State's Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69679	Replication response, my colleague Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69680	Thank you. I'd like to comment on that, Mr. Matusic. Since we all know that there are so many witnesses living in Dubrovnik, the very relatives, the children of those people who are shot there, that I have enough parameters to determine responsibility if we want to, even though we said this law is not going in that direction. This law goes to mark graves and markings. And in that sense, I want to comment on Mr. Hebrang this part where the law says that the county will be in charge. I'd like you to reconsider. When it comes to Dubrovnik County, from Vela Luka where the caves, Lumbarda, Jakljana, Daxa, Konavala, Orsula, it seems to me that, I'm not really sure that the county can cover that, it seems to me that it would be much better to have municipalities and cities in whose area it is, that they would be better dealt with, because the county is one institution that coordinates all these jobs, but I think we should think about at least big cities then.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69681	Thank you. And another replica, colleague Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69682	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of Shuica, I wanted to replicate to you about what you mentioned about this amendment, which should be further explained, but also about what you said about Daxie, that October 1944 as some limit should mean a shift compared to marking something. I would just like to replicate to you that there is one event that should move this to 1942 when in Vrgorec on 15 June by Partizan gunmen 33 citizens and citizens of Vrgorec, and in the same small town until the creation of an independent Republic of Croatia that day was the day of the municipality. That's terrible. So in that respect, I would just like to support this proposal of yours because I tried to understand that you're going in that direction to move it down even lower maybe cities, municipalities like that, to focus on these issues, but to absolutely take care of it. And to tell the truth, here is today's Free Dalmatia, Bozinovic ordered the shooting of 33 civilians, former Admiral JNA Petar Bozinovic. If he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69683	Okay, let's go back to the law, because if we're going to investigate here, and we said we won't, let those who are called not to investigate, I believe that every service does its part of the job. And we're moving on around the law, but before that, first of all, our distinguished colleague, Shuica, is the answer to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69684	I just want to answer, so we go back to real law, because the law says since 9 May '45, and I'm saying if maybe we're calling for a Council of Europe resolution and she says human rights violations differed depending on the culture and the country and the historical period, etc., I guess there's room to apply here too, I know that the date of the end of the war is May 9th, but to apply the term from '44. or earlier, because I think it would be one big injustice if it weren't respected in this part when it comes to Daxie, and I believe there are other similar examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69685	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the president of the HDZ Club, a respected colleague of Andrija Hebrang, asked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69686	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I need to show myself to is a few demands from the MPs, first of all by colleagues to Ratko Gajica, who criticized why no monuments were protected in the law, the tombstones. Dear Ratko, it's not in this law, but we have strong laws and I insist that they be implemented. I'm going to say once again that it's the '93 Criminal Law. in Articles 213 and 240, provided that by desecrating memories, mentioning features or graves commits a criminal offence, they will be closed by a prison of up to 8 years. So we have the law, but obviously because of this expressed dissatisfaction, we don't respect it enough. That's why we didn't include it here. As for that story that can be interpreted twice, I pray that we work together so that this law cannot be misused, but that it really goes to the victim's height. Kola Grubisic said we are politicizing both with first and second readings, because it first came at the time of the amendment of the Constitution and the second now because of the crisis. That's not true. This law has been waiting for its order like any other law, and I would ask my colleague Grubisic to be here to tell me when this air-empty space is when we jump in with this law, and no one can say that something else is political, in the dynamics of politics something significant is happening. Whenever you come with this law, you can say it's politicizing. And that's why it's good that we came with him today, when we have a situation before the election, when it can't affect the election result, when it can't spoil everything this law needs to fix. And in the end, I must say that I was deeply impressed by the debate of my colleague Shuice, who here said that the State's Attorney's Office, the county, refused to investigate the perpetrators of the crime in Daxa, which occurred between 25 and 27 October '44. A year. I, let me, must question the truth of it, because I can't believe it, because if Dax cannot be investigated by the perpetrator, then we really won't be able to do a single crime. But since it's not the subject of this law, I'm just going to support not only Dax, we have more islands where thousands and tens of thousands of fate are forever sealed, so other than Daxa, we should make a mention of the traits on the Grgur, and on the Gol island, and everywhere where we're now putting the trash, wherever we're ashamed of our past, we should be proud of our past and be worthy of marking it. And as an example, I point out in South Africa, Robben Island, an island where Mandela and other contemporaries were enslaved for tens and tens of years, should go there and see what a proud people do of their history. We have to do it from Daxa, from Golog Island, and from Grgur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69687	Thank you very much. A colleague named Daniel Srb reported for individual discussion. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69688	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to say that I support this bill, although I am sorry that such a law was not passed 20 years ago, right after democratic changes, because even then it was an opportunity not only to mark all the places of people's suffering, but it was also much more likely to prosecute those responsible for the terrible crimes than it is today. But allow me a few words first of all about the people who were killed there in different strategies, executed immediately after World War II, because very often in the Croatian public, even today here in the assembly these people call different completely unacceptable names, and accuses them of something that they are objectively not to blame. In large part of Croatia, in early June, in July '41. In the year the Chetniks, part of the communists were encouraged by Italian fascists, began the ethical cleansing of part of Croatia. It began explicitly in eastern persona, southwestern Bosnia where the entire Croatian villages were literally slaughtered. And of course, the people who lived in those areas were looking for ways to survive. They weren't criminals, they weren't people who wanted anyone else any harm, but they were looking for a way to survive, to defend themselves. And the only institution that could support them and support them was the then Croatian state. She's the only one who stopped to protect those people from the naked slaughter. And then it happened as history developed that in fact they all ended up in Bleiburg, were victims of the crossroad, executed. Their families were abused precisely because of the fact that they belonged to units that actually defended villages from slaughter that 50 years later would be silence. And what's left of it today, so after a great injustice done to people who didn't do anything else, their only sin was that there were other nationalities in a certain space, which were different as they like to say it today. And why is it necessary today to call all these people different unacceptable names. I'm very sorry that my colleague Caine is not here in the assembly because every victim deserves dignity. People who have been killed in many of these sites should be buried with dignity. Their victims' places should be marked with dignity. What is missing in this law is the fact that a large number of sites are also located in neighbouring Slovenia. It is also necessary to find ways to mark those cemeteries appropriately. Slovenia itself has done a lot about it, we cannot be dissatisfied in this regard. But co-operation with Slovenia is needed to ensure that all sites of the Croatian Homeland Army's suffering are properly marked. Let us not allow today this debate on such a purely humanitarian issue, the question of people's dignity, to come down to mutual political accusations inappropriate today. But today Croatia needs to show something else. It should be shown that she is indeed willing to sanction those responsible for such slaughters. I have the impression that there is still no responsibilities for such cases in Croatia. If a serious process against responsible persons for these massacres were launched in Croatia in the 1990s, there might be no Ovcara. A message would be sent that the crime cannot remain unpunished. And that message would be understood by those who are responsible for the slaughter of the Homeland War and the slaughter of the Sheepchare. And we didn't do it. We have missed that, and today we still have the consequences of the re-emergence that perpetrators of terrible crimes can remain unpunished. The Homeland War and what was left after it again gave such an opportunity to some. Unfortunately, we have such a situation that the General Forgiveness Act has applied to those to whom it was not allowed to apply, who are objectively responsible for the terrible crimes in our area on the one hand, and on the other hand it has been allowed The Hague to take over the jurisdiction of sanctioning the most serious crimes and not sanctioning them. It remained as a message completely unacceptable. It cannot remain a message that the Croatian population can be illegally killed, and again it remained after this war. And our obligation is to change this urgently and the message that should go into continuity from Croatia is not to be allowed to slaughter and cannot be allowed to remain any slaughter and responsible for the slaughter unpunished. This law should be supported, but it should only be an incentive and punish all those responsible for those Croatian people's strategies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69689	Thank you very much. We have reported three replicas. First of all, dear colleague Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69690	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My dear colleague, you encouraged me to do this replica where in one context you mentioned the word silence. I am further alluded to by something that I believe that all of us, from whatever city or place we come through this history of ours after the war, have some kind of silence. I was born in '62. And after that, as a little or little bigger boy, he heard somewhere near his ear about something where I asked my mom, grandma, and what's that all about? Then Grandma said shut up, son. We're not gonna talk about it. It doesn't matter. Normally, the older I got, the more I understood it, but that silence that was in the premises was largely tied to the sufferings of the Croatian and other people who at the time and after or at the end of the war came into the situation that indeed the great and innocent victims were happening in these places. This silence that was during and after the war, the silence that lasted for decades should no longer be silence, and the least we can do for all these great victims who were and innocent people is that today as they were posthumously, but as generations of relatives, the loved ones behind this we give the necessary support, the necessary words that, even after 50 years of coming after these events, have their weight. And we must be proud of that, regardless of which political party we belong, which option, how we think. Because it's just historic like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69691	Thank you. A prominent counterpart, Josip Djakic, also appeared after the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69692	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here I am obliged to say when we talk about this Law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of the victims of communist crimes, that there has certainly been a serious massacre and violation of the Geneva Conventions as well as any other laws and rules on war. The disarmed Croatian people certainly laid down their weapons on the express request and order of General Herencic, who clearly told his troops to lay down their weapons, that they would be free citizens and that if they had any blame, they would be tried because the Yugoslav Army promised it, and they guaranteed the British forces at the helm with General Scott. So on such a condition, they agreed, cheated, laid down their weapons, and then as prisoners of war were killed. That's what you can't forget, that's what can't be removed as well as all the Crossways, and all those columns of death that ended in ditches, pits, which were never supposed to be spoken for so many years, for so many years were planted on them by Montenegrin trees and it marks the largest part of these humvees, caves and sites that were committed by communist authorities just because they were other nationalities, other armies, other skin colors, races and anything. And it is therefore even worse condemnation of these communist crimes, which are under the dictatorship of proletariats, looking at Russian crimes committed against the Croatian people, the Bosnian people, the German people and all other peoples who were enslaved and executed by the communist authorities. Therefore, this law comes no matter how long the time is right and with it will likely be a satisfaction to those victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69693	Thank you. The reply to the replica, dear colleague of the Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69694	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Djakic, I warn that history is repeated. Let's take a look at the surrender situation in the Bleiburg field, see with the surrender in Vukovar. After Vukovar, slaughter, camps in Serbia, and this is the question. Where are they punished today? At this point, we have the principle of establishing an ever-increasing relationship with Serbia. And whoever is responsible in Serbia is also punished and who of Croatia is wanted for the establishment of camps in Serbia where they were eventually children. So, the children were in camps now after this Homeland War. History repeats itself. If we don't sanction this kind of behavior, it remains a completely false message. And unfortunately, there was a completely wrong message even after this Homeland War. Croatia must ask Serbia to prosecute both those responsible for the abuse in these camps and for the establishment in the finality of these camps. Who founded these camps in Serbia? That's why someone has to answer. We cannot go beyond that, and Croatian diplomacy must say, Croatian top officials must insist on that. This must be a clear policy in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69695	Thank you very much. And a replica of distinguished counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69696	Thank you very much. Comrade Serbs, you wondered why innocent victims are called unacceptable expressions? Well, the answer is very clear, because of the untrue, because of the cover-up of the truth for years, because of the cover-up of the truth of '45. To this day. We're still looking for the truth. Many false careers have been built on this historic truth, many false reputations have been built, and many privileges have been enjoyed. It was true that the naked islands were opened, and those who had this greatest reputation were opening and commanding naked islands not only on the naked island but also elsewhere. In untruths, some have been misbehaved for decades, some have been lightbulbs of death, some have been the owners of other people's lives just because they didn't think like them, they shouldn't have dared think differently. They've been shining fear all around and no personal fear. They had no fear from anyone. Some today have no fear of revealing the truth because many prevent the truth from being revealed. And why are they without fear? Well, because unhunded birds aren't afraid of bushes or hunters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69697	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. A response to the replica of fellow Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69698	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Maric, I fully agree with what you said, but Croatia must today have the strength to calculate much from its past. Information is emerging that is not said in politics today, nor is the media talking about it, and the EU is coming to which the EU is seeking also certain responsibilities and for persons who have been on duty in the secret services of the former UDBA, who are also responsible for the numerous victims of Croatian emigration across Europe, which Croatia still does not dare to extradite. We have indications of serious problems in relations with the largest European country precisely because we do not have the courage to come out, which is something the EU is looking for, which requires a civilized behaviour. And why all of a sudden, the head gets stuck in the sand when it's being ordered directly from those we want to see where Croatia wants to go as Croatia wants to change. So Croatia needs to change and should show Croatia that it has the strength to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69699	Thank you very much. Here is the minute until 13.30 and there are meetings of the working bodies, so I am taking a break until 15 o'clock and the first is the distinguished colleague Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69700	Dear MPs and MPs, we continue with the afternoon session. An individual debate. First in line is Honorable Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to try really to stick to this proposal, and I really think it is necessary that we finally face both the truth and the facts, and above all, that in a decent way we mark in Croatia all the sites of innocent victims and those victims who were executed without any court. Unfortunately, such victims are extremely many, almost 700 caves, mass graves in Croatia, not counting Bosnia and Herzegovina where one part of Croatian citizens also died in other republics of the former Yugoslavia, and I will say something else about the Council of Europe Resolution and the European Parliament Resolution. Namely, is Croatian society mature today to face the fact that it is by the 1990s. The totalitarian dictatorial and criminal communist regime was in effect in Croatia. Is Croatian society ready today? I don't think so. Many political actors today are not prepared to unequivocally condemn the crimes committed in the name of communist ideology, they are simply not ready. They're trying to make excuses for these crimes. Today we mentioned Daxa as a very prominent example of an unprecedented crime where there was a very clear execution of people who had nothing to do with Ustasha ideology or the Ustasha movement or the Ustasha regime. There are executed Franciscans, there are executed intellectuals, there are executed some respected professors. There are executed people who have truly earned nothing to do with their execution. It has already been said here, among them is Pater Perica, a Franciscan who composed the "Head Queen of the Croats" and "Heaven be plowed." Those who go to church who know church songs and speak clearly enough about the cruelty of the then communist summit who was willing to commit such terrible crimes only in the name of communist ideology and in order to liquidate those they already recognized, potentially dangerous to political future life. We are not prepared to admit because our streets still bear the name and our squares bear the names of dictators, a criminal who issued execution orders for hundreds of thousands of marshal Joseph Broz Tito's men regardless of his role in the People's Liberation Fight. No one disputes the fact that, of course, Croats who first started resisting fascism fought on the side of anti-fascist forces and no one disputes that fact. And that fact is, of course, said, and that fact is also in the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But on the other hand, no one disputes the fact that Stalin was also on the side of anti-fascist forces. And it is also so that the Russian people, along with the other peoples of the former Soviet Union, participated in the fight against fascism. But that doesn't diminish the fact that Stalin was also a criminal at the same time, one of the most cruel criminals, just like Tito was, one of the most cruel criminals. These facts should also be given their place in Croatian history, especially today in the Croatian present. No one wonders why the European Parliament declared August 23rd "The Day of Remembrance of victims of totalitarian regimes". I remind you one more time. The European Parliament and all Council resolutions of Europe speak of totalitarian dictatorial criminal regimes in the 20th century. They include fascism, Nazism, and communism. We were a communist country led by a criminal whose name stands today in the squares and streets of Croatian cities. And that is why I think we are not yet aware or ready to accept the values of the European Union. We in HDZ are absolutely ready and we have accepted these values, but it seems that the standard which Europe has already adopted is not a good response in many political parties, so first of all, I think of the SDP. Also, I am returning to this date on August 23rd, which was declared in the European Parliament "the day of memories of victims of the totalitarian regime". This is the day when two foreign ministers, two totalitarian regimes, signed a non-attack agreement, the day when fascist Germany was with the Communist Soviet Union when they signed the Non-attack Alliance, followed by the attack on Poland, followed by World War II, followed by the first division of the Polish state's first victims between the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany. And that alliance would probably have lasted if Hitler hadn't decided to attack the Soviet Union in 1941. Only then do communists in Russia start an anti-fascist fight. And those are the facts. Only today can a hypothetical question be asked, what if fascist Germany hadn't attacked the Communist Soviet Union? It would be interesting indeed, but fortunately today it is only a hypothetical question, because we have survived these two evils and fascism and communism and Nazism, and in this sense it is indeed time to remember all those innocent victims today and Croatia should also be defined for us in the nearest period, here I am today saying that we in HDZ will launch this initiative and we will propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt on 23.8, 23 August also in Croatia as the date of marking all the sites and all victims of the totalitarian regimes of the 20th century. This is necessary for the sake of our future or, as the Council of Europe and the European Parliament itself says, it is necessary for the possibility of reconciliation, after all these crimes and after all that has happened. Without public recognition that the victims happened, without marking the cemetery, without acknowledging that the actors were criminals and that they should be tried, if they are still alive, and not as they are still trying to hide or not tell the truth today, without it not according to the resolution of the Council of Europe and of the European Parliament, it is difficult to come to terms with reconciliation. So it is quite clear that this law that is before us, proposed by HDZ and HSS clubs, is on the trail of all those positive laws, and the proposals for a resolution of the Council of Europe and of the European Parliament and that it is in a European spirit. And those forces they do not want in the European Union today can be read partly from these communist forces, who do not care about the truth, or who fear the truth and who fear the face of this criminal past. No one reduces the achievements of the people's liberation struggle in terms of the fight against fascism, but crimes should be exposed. We're talking about Homeland War crimes today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69702	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69703	We are talking about the crimes of the Homeland War, and some communists and their successors are not ready to talk about the crimes committed by the communists after World War II or during World War II until 1990.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69704	Thank you. It's the honorary representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69705	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think passing this law is necessary for two reasons. One reason is ethical, another reason is psychological. The ethical reason is perfectly clear, each victim has the right to a dignified burial, has the right to have her grave marked and that place become one place where respect for the victims is given. In Sophocles Antigona Kreont decides that Polinica must not be buried as it seems, for state reasons, however, a wise wizard of Teresa comes and warns Kreont, who takes over at that time, that an unburied dead man will infect the city, that someone who has not buried, who has not given a worthy burial to the dead, even though the dead by the city's walls was at one hour a traitor, that this city has no peace, that this city will never have peace. So disrespecting victims, unmarking their graves is a clear ethical issue in the first place, but it is also a psychological issue. I think that many neuroses of our present society, many neurotic situations arise precisely from the fact that this is not cleared, that we are still walking on graves, and we do not know that there are graves, which we still have so many places where victims whose loyal honor is not, and who seek their right. And as long as this is not settled, as long as these victims have no place of burial, their peace, their blessing, either in one religion or in another or in a third religion, or in a fourth, this society will always be in a semi-neeurotic situation, because without clearing up, without truth, there is no psychological stability. Psychological instability stems from unscathed things. And when I hear a former official today, when he says it may have been justifiable revenge, I wonder what it would be like to say, if someone tried to defend some Homeland War crime, with that thesis that it was justifiable revenge, what would that sound like? That's terrible. So I think because of this nation's health, because of its psychological stability, it's absolutely necessary to clear up with the past that every victim gets the grave he deserves, that all the guilty who are known to be sanctioned and that there be no more masking, pushing things under the carpet, camouflaged truth, doesn't lead to anything. This leads only to strengthening neurosis, strengthening social conflicts, and we will never get to a healthy, clean, and I would say indeed towards the future of an open national situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69706	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's a good thing after a long time, we still got this bill on the bench. This proposal perfectly corresponds with the Council of Europe resolution condemning communist crimes, and somehow through our media, it cannot reach the general public that as important as we are to meet all the chapters for entering the European Union, I think it is equally important to investigate and condemn communist crimes and finally to close that history site in our society. In fact, the international community condemned the perpetrators of communist crimes, as it did with the terrible crimes of fascism, but unfortunately in the communist countries of Central and Eastern Europe it was not real at the time. In these countries following World War II without trial, a large number of civilians were killed, including soldiers, women, old men, children, most of these murders were never investigated or recorded. But I won't, we've heard a lot about these horrors here, so I'd concentrate on a micro-region, which is where I'm from, and I'd give a cross-section globally. Although the scales of these crimes cannot therefore be covered up because they are responsible people, and especially this one Franciscan doctor who wrote a book and described everything that happened in the Franciscan province. So I'll only stay in the area of the former Vrlika municipality. On page 514, the greatest evil, I quote, "For a good country as well as for the whole of Croatia was at the end and after the war." And now it describes the methodology -- "At that time, the mayors of the municipalities, the village councils, the chiefs of the OZNAs were putting together lists of certain people for death. These lists were sent to Karlovac and other cities where Croatian soldiers surrendered." So she was already set up at lower levels of power, and whoever those councilmen put on the list didn't come home alive. So it was killed in the area of the former municipality of Vrlika a thousand people, and if we know that Croatian living in that area is food of about 5 thousand, so it's almost 20%. So it was actually a model how it worked. The extent of the crimes that took place globally after the English had handed over nearly 200 thousand prisoners to the Partizans best spoke the statement Milovana Gilas made to the British list in 1979: "It is the British who did absolutely wrong to bring these people back across the border, just as we did completely wrong to kill them all. In wartime, I didn't hide my opinion that these murders were a pointless act of angry revenge." So isn't that why the English don't give access to World War II archives? In fact, that deadline expired a few years ago, but it was extended for the next 30 years. It is unfortunate that today, under the notion of anti-fascism, all those protagonists of the totalitarian communist system are trying to rehabilitate from the end of World War II to 1990. That is why I will support this law because for all the victims of pornography and all the communist victims should be allowed to pay their due honors and to mark their graves. That's what I mean by this generation, and I think it's the least we can do because if we don't do it, the graves won't forgive them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69708	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69709	Well, you've rightly established that these are serious communist crimes, but what's the problem is that the good part of the communists wanted to hide behind the idea of anti-fascists. Today you will very little meet those who are said to have been communists or were at the time of World War II in the Communist Party and were involved in these crimes. Unfortunately, however, some historical facts surface. So it surfaced and the fact that they're so-called. anti-fascists, better said communists, actually killed the anti-fascists that Fascist Italy imprisoned in a prison in Prevlaca. Which were released after the fall of Italy in '43. Years and years after that, they were communists, so-called. Antifascists executed. And they were shut down by fascist Italy as anti-fascists. So that's what this is about. Disclosure of exactly that sort of thing and that kind of situation and that kind of fact. And in that sense, it really does not need to be identified and the concept of communists with anti-fascists must not be identified.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69710	Thank you. We're moving on with the debate. It is up to the honourable representative of Šima Djurdjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69711	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In 2001, in the town of Sibinj known from the history of the Sibinian victims, we upgraded the primary school "Ivan Mažuranić" in Sibinj and when we buried the foundations for the addition of it we immediately encountered human bones. At the time, I was personally president of the Exhumation Committee of those victims along with the Požega Investigative Judge, the pathologist, the secretary of the commission, and of course I addressed the Assembly's commission, but on the phone, no one answered my written enquiries either. The County of Brod-Posaviska paid all the costs and 24 exhumed victims were buried in a military cemetery in Split. Another event also in Slavonski Brod Lovro Jurković official, Andrija Lukinić railway controller, Albert Huljić, respected host father of famous football player Dinam Sreko Huljić, Zvonko Kovačec, Baršić, Jelić and other innocent imagine colleagues and colleagues killed since 17 January 1970. until 19.10.1973 in Slavonski Brod, and not a single case has been resolved by 12 cases today. And that wasn't enough. Let me just point out, most of them were killed with a gun called TT, so-called TT. TT-ac 7 62 mm. 21.12.76. They're killing Peter Huljić, his own brother already killed Albert in a way that we Slavons say runs him over in a car. It's the 13 victims in those three years that no one was responsible for. and that the German State Attorney's Office would open investigations into the UDBA liquidations of Croats in Germany. Since the German law does not obsess over the murder, it is logical that the Germans have opened investigations into the 37 killings of Croatian immigrants in Germany since '67. Until '89. A year. Therefore, I personally believe that the families of the liquidated Brodjans from the town of Slavonski Brod have the right to know the truth after so many years. They're not asking for any compensation from their homeland, but the truth is they want to know, and I think we need to make it happen. My colleagues and colleagues in the Evening List of February 27th of this year on page 8 and 9, Esther Gitman, a historian from New York, born in Sarajev in her book "When Courage Overcomes" talks about saving Jews in NDH and the role of Archbishop Stepinca. "I will have the people send petitions with their names and last names to seek mercy for the Jews. These people are peacemakers, and such documents in resistance to fascism have no European people." The author continues: "My mentor Ivo Goldstein was surprised when I said that I would study the rescue of Jews in NDH and asked me if there were really so many examples that could be dealt with scientifically" continues: "Petics in favour of saving the Jew Spicer signed 110 inhabitants of Great Kopanica in my Brod-Posavina County to return to her concentrated small shop, a small shop in the village of Velika Kopanica. Workers... also write a petition in Zagreb for the release of Willim Berger" etc. a series of cases. And in the end, what particularly touched me when I read that text, the author of the book asked with wonder and law: "It is not clear to me why you Croats did not study scientifically the fact that some honest and smart Croats during the NDH also saved representatives of the Serbian people. I have a lot of documents on this subject." Strange, isn't it? And the author concludes that during World War II, prominent Croats saved over 9.5 thousand Jews and other peoples who were in Croatia. Thomas Hobbes said that man is a wolf, and I would say because of these non-response that Croat is at least an enemy or a stepfather. For all of this, of course, I support this bill and that all these victims, regardless of when they happened, deserve a decent funeral, a decent marking, and that we must never forget them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69712	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69713	Thank you. Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's what I'd like to start my own argument with, maybe something some people won't agree with, and I think most of them will. We are the land of organized oblivion, and we should not be. Why did I say that? So despite the very clear evidence we are practically the only country in Europe in which there is no sign of equality between totalitarian crimes and national socialist and fascist on one side and communist on the other, and it should be. Why did that happen? Well, first of all, until yesterday, there was a brainwashing of some antifascism and famous victories, and today there was a society of general amnesia that I would say freely, in which a part of the citizens but also part of the political elite cannot really face the communist past and the crimes that occurred during that period. The evidence of the crimes committed is unquestionable. The pits of human bones speak for themselves, but in Croatia some things are hard to go. Killers, OZMAs, KNOJs, are free to walk Croatian cities with medals, high pensions, which is a fact. And while almost all post-communist EU member states have long since implemented the Lustration Act, we must not talk about it. Shut up, shut up today. Because we also have those who glorify these crimes, or ultimately they won't. However, has conscience worked for some? Here's an example I have that we can all see simply and make clear where some people's conscience has worked. The folk hero is still alive Jure Galic of Ljubusko. Here's the title: "I admit my comrades killed 30 Vrgorcans." Here's the title in today's Free Dalmatia. The folk hero who has a monument in Ljubush, and today, the president of the SuBNOR in BiH was born in 1921, is alive. That's what he said. We have the fact that the crime was committed. Gentlemen, he's talking and talking about crimes after '45. A year. Last year, a tomb in Vrgorec was opened and found corpses from the end of World War II proved the matter of communist crime, living witnesses confirm everything. Among those found is Fr. Maximilian Jurcic's body, former SDP's economic strategist Ljuba Jurcic's uncle, we were together at a funeral in Široki Brijeg. So we have facts and we're talking about what can be proven. There is another tomb in Vrgorec, the so-called tomb. The new cemetery of 40 victims is supposed to be buried there. Unfortunately, however, the DORH to which the request to open it has not yet been answered. But on the other hand we have also, I have to say it, and they say nothing, and they insist on defending something that is both moral and political, and legally not to speak indiscriminately, but they continue to insist on how. So they call for right-wing revisionism, the liquids of some kind, let's call it well-intentioned anti-fascism and the human dimension of communism. And we have confirmation of that, actually very easy to prove. Ivan Grubisic, a sociologist, don, I don't know how much Don is, given what he says here stands the title of the gentlemen's messages to the scavengers, don't make a living on the bones of the victims. I'll quote: by returning to the past and "saling" old wounds, we're only deepening our crisis, we're causing unrest, we're striving, and we need to be really stupid to believe it says that the truth is being sought for the truth of the victims. So please nicely, this is something that creates in a man a total resignation, at least with me, according to statements that we can read and that we can hear. And we've heard here today some who speak or want to highlight the revisionism, they're afraid it might happen, not gentlemen. This is just a desire to prove the truth, honor the victims and condemn the perpetrators, and give dignity to those to whom this dignity belongs, and so far it has been aloof, it has to be kept silent. It's not just 700 or 900, it's 7,000 or 9,000, it doesn't matter if it's 5 people in graves or 500 or 5000, it's about victims who deserve dignity. And for who needs all this, so do the young. We know a lot about this, but there are young generations coming, we have so many of our students in primary and secondary schools who don't know anything about it, we should know. And let this be a lesson to the truth in the right sense of the word that when it comes to the brightest point in Croatian history, which is the Homeland War. Here, gentlemen, for these reasons we will support this. I hope some others support it for a whole other reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69714	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is the honourable representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matkovic, I have come to ask if you believe that this is the rhetoric of your policy of reconciliation that your colleague Matusic spoke of earlier. My father left the Federation People's Republic of Yugoslavia, emigrated in '53. A year. You'll never catch me talking about World War II, the Homeland War, socialism and communism, capitalism, and I'm talking about black and white technique. I don't think your rhetoric contributes to the basic goal we want to achieve today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69716	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69717	I mean, fellow Doric that you have the right to your opinion and your position, I can't forbid it or forbid it. But the fact is that you obviously don't want to hear the truth, that you don't actually want to accept what I'm talking about. When I finally said that the message was exclusively in the direction of one true approach to prove the truth for the future, because of the youth that goes, so I didn't think that our youth would live in one dispute as it was 50 or 60 years, but that the Croatian youth lived in unity and community and that in the right sense the word reconciliation that Franjo Tudjman was talking about and which he managed to establish, which unfortunately some others seem to be breaking up today and... I don't want to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague Doric, I'm a professional professor, I worked 25 years in high school and make sure I left a trail and a stamp on each of them in a positive sense in which I speak now, not as you say. And what I'm saying is true, this is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69718	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69719	My colleague Matkovic, I believe that the young have realized that actually returning to the past is not a lot of luck, but we older ones should clear up the bar with this, what we're doing today. So whoever was killed, it's hard to find out all the names, but the good part is we will, which is why he was killed and at least we're talking about burying them with dignity. I know I'll never find out where my uncle got hurt on the crossroad because somewhere he was killed who knows where, two uncles were dragged from the house and killed as well, you know where, but not yet exactly. So that was the time. But what surprises me is the resistance of our former politicians and known politicians. Let's say the president of former Stjepan Mesic claims it's a good thing they got killed because they deserved it, that's one thing. And secondly, if they hadn't had a prison, they didn't have a prison at their disposal, so they didn't find another way but they had to liquidate them because they didn't have anywhere to lock them up in '46, '47. And so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69720	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said it nicely, colleague Markovanovic. I think the point is, in fact, everything exactly the message we're talking about, which is the future of the Croatian people and Croatian youth, which means the truth. To know the truth means to live in peace. A man who lives with the truth lives in peace with himself, which is the most important thing. If you do not live in peace with yourself and do not have a calm conscience then you certainly do not live with the truth but live with lies, and I never wanted to live with lies. It is now irrelevant for today's debate, colleague Markovanovic, as you mentioned your uncle. The past system never answered my mother, who thank God is still alive, the old woman weighs and I'm getting a little old, no one has ever answered what my late Marco was doing in Being a year and five years on the naked island. There's never an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69722	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So when we came from several debates in fact today we could hear about the importance of finally getting to know the truth and facing the truth about everything that happened directly and finally and directly after World War II and also during the communist rule. And it's particularly apostrophe that's what my colleague Herb was saying, and here you are now about the importance of it because of our children, that our children know the truth and that they need to know the truth. But I can't be surprised that at the same time, it only adds so much importance, and it's forgotten that from our recent history we have a history review or an attempt to review history, and that's what's happening with the Homeland War. And it is precisely the duty of all of us and those who are ruling and those who are not ruling not to allow the revision or that history because it is even fresher so that in 50 or 60 years, someone else behind us will have to correct what we are missing right now. I'm just going to point out that in the end, it's only concrete. It is a shameful fact that the revision of the history of the Homeland War does not only work by Savo Strbac and Veritas, that this is not done by Amnesty International, but that we find the revision of history, therefore the Homeland War and Disrespect of the Declaration of Homeland War we find both in the institutions and in the highest institutions of the Croatian State, and I will give an example, so the ruling of the Croatian courts to Croatian defenders in which the Croatian judiciary wrote that during the Homeland War on Croatia, there was no aggression, that during the Homeland War the National Guard and the Croatian Army were not legal formations and that during the Homeland War the only legal formation, especially at the beginning of October 8, 1991, the units of the JNA were legally justified all that these troops were. along with the Chetnik troops, all the evil they have done. [[Intruding Capricorn: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69724	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Borislav Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think first of all I have to tell you that the replica you gave me is out of the question that we're talking about. And maybe you heard me, and maybe you didn't hear me part of it, and that's what I said was that the purpose and purpose of it is primarily to make the truth as such, so at some point set to its right level. And I said that the truth of that time should be primarily the meaning of each other's truth. If you heard me correctly, I said the best points of Croatian history and that is the Homeland War. But in this sense of proving the truth, you've gone a little off topic rather than being good. You don't need to politicize about it now, you need to stay on the topic, and Homeland War is what children also need to know more than they know today and I will absolutely support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69726	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is next to the honourable representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You heard in the course of a statement from my colleague Beus that the HNS Club, HSU, will support this law. That's what I'm gonna do. But if you're asking me to assess the law and if I'm completely happy with it, I'll tell you that I'm not, and I'll try to explain it. First, let's clear up with Resolution 1481 of the Council of Europe. We have listened to certain details of it today, but we have never received from anyone a full picture of the objectives of this resolution. My colleagues and colleagues, that resolution has three objectives. The first goal is to rehabilitate victims of communist regimes. Another goal is to rehabilitate their families. The third goal is to send a message to the young generations that such crimes never happen again. Do I make myself clear? Three targets. On this basis, several months later in this House last term, we proposed that we also bring a declaration in the Assembly with the same message because it was a request from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I must tell you colleagues and colleagues, you who have not sat in these benches in the last term that it was one of the most painful debates I have ever participated in. We've been listening for two days about partisans, Ustashas, black-and-white techniques that apply to this and that historic period. After a full two days, a two-day embarrassing two-day hearing was interrupted, the clubs were found and then the declaration was agreed. I was among those who did not have the opportunity to speak then, and I wanted to talk about shame, my shame for such a debate, and all that was happening during that two-day debate. I'm not proud of what I heard today either. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like a lot more to discuss today than anything else. I think we should not repeat the declarations but rather try to see how successfully we implemented those earlier declarations. If you take just the three goals I was talking about earlier I ask you colleagues and colleagues, can you tell me who we are or who we are individuals, list me five people that we have managed to rehabilitate in five years. Give me five families to whom someone went and apologized in front of the Parliament and in front of the government the way we were supposed to do it. I'll tell you the example that impressed me. While I worked for eight months as a young scientist in France there worked in my laboratory a man whose family the Russians had kicked out right after World War II from the Czech Republic, or Czechoslovakia. At his door two weeks after Havel came to power, a man knocked, looked through that hatch at the door, didn't know him. He asked who he was. And this one presented himself as the Ambassador of Czechoslovakia. Havel himself sent him to apologize to their family for the crimes committed to them during the communist regime, and handed him a passport here in the hallway and asked him to return to Czechoslovakia to join the country. It's a great act, it's the right act, it's the way we have to go. Let's not deal with our fathers, our grandfathers, our children and our grandchildren. My colleagues and colleagues, it is not the beginning of this story in the Council of Europe since 2006, which we are calling on here in this document, began 3 years earlier, when both in the UN and the Council of Europe, the first resolutions and the declaration condemning the famine in Ukraine in '32, '33. For years, so it was the 70th anniversary. A few years ago, the HNS Club proposed that we base our Parliament's applications on both the UN and the Council of Europe. This proposal has been on the agenda for years, and it doesn't come to the agenda. Why? Don't ask me that, somebody else has to answer that. That's not good. I'm not going to read the parts of the resolution I prepared, I'd just like to try to warn you of two details. Our colleagues and colleagues, our Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, received today's report from the committee meeting. On page 2, it says that the crimes in the period marked but committed by these crimes will be committed by communists in the Partizani brackets. People communists, in the brackets of Partizani. Are those synonyms? In my Vinodol, 90% of the men were in Partisans, more than 5 to 10% of them in the war, and not after the war was in the Communist party. How can someone even it out? That's embarrassing. This is our committee's service document. That's not what I'm gonna let you think. That's really embarrassing. Furthermore, my last complaint, the big complaint, will be established, the Office for Detecting, Marking and Maintaining the Graves of Victims of Communist Crimes after World War II. So exclusively for one period, it exclusively refers to one group of victims, etc. My colleagues and colleagues, wouldn't it make sense that you and your colleagues from the HDZ and you colleagues from HSS, what counterpart Matušić said, that one document and one office deal clearly with the victims of all those Croats who have fallen upright for their homeland for centuries, in all wars. I can only accept such an office, and that's the only way to look at my history. I can't accept this exclusivity. I can accept it and I'll vote for it, but it's not a good solution. I got a call the other day from some Maurinians. ... The ants, near Split, and say in our area, have killed a huge number of residents during World War II for retribution. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Someone took down a monument after the war, never picked up our citizens again. What bothers someone to return such a monument, to mark these sacrifices and many others? This is one example of a German crime, and even this crime, we are not able to cover with documents and our action in a debate like this, and a law like this, which clearly needs to be dimensionally different for me, and I truly embrace all historical periods, and I repeat for all the victims of all the wars in which our citizens have fallen, I repeat vertically in the fight for my country.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69728	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is the distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I agree with the good part of my colleague Doric's debate, and I know that he really represents the Council of Europe's views and defends values, because we work together on these jobs, and I understand the essence of his reason, but I want to replicate in the part where he's saying that we should speak unitedly about all the victims. I agree here, however, about the victims of a totalitarian regime, which is fascism, in which the Ustasha government was involved we knew and these victims were even named and listed, from Jasenovac, the second to various monuments present in Croatia, it is known that they know the victims of the fascist, Ustasha regime, etc. So that part isn't controversial. However, these victims we are talking about today are not known, they are not even known where they are, they are not known where they were killed, in which part of Croatia, whether they are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so they are not known for a few hundred thousand people, and that is why, unfortunately, what you mentioned as a positive example, which I agree with about Czechoslovakia and their gesture towards the bully and family member... who was expelled or died, etc. [[You don't understand.]] We should, we should, it would take years and years to get to all the families, unfortunately those dead who we don't even know where they died, or the way they died, actually because today we have to investigate, because we know about the existence of 600-thins, or almost 700 caves, mass graves, etc. That's the difference. So I agree absolutely, that should ultimately be united, but let's correct the historical injustice because these victims, innocent victims, were not to be spoken of. That's the difference. Because we lived in communism that forbidded any word of it. And secondly, I agree with you, the communist is not equal to Partizan, and the communist is not equally anti-fascist. You're absolutely right about that. And that clearly needs to be defined by communist criminals, absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69730	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69731	Now you've confirmed your colleague Matushic that I'm right. You said now we have to start investigating. My exposure went in the direction, we shouldn't have gone five years ago when we brought the declaration, started training intensively, namely investigating it. Here we even listed colleagues and colleagues, my God so stands the Croatian Assembly considered it by systematic research... crimes, etc. they should deal with scientific and judicial institutions. [[You don't understand.]] So I repeat, let's not repeat the declarations, we're already monitoring the implementation of the so far. I haven't had a single name in five years, not one family we rehabilitated, which we talked about in a different way, and that way we put the point on and on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69732	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69733	Yes, thank you, Mr. Vice President. So colleagues from HDZ, so I will repeat what Mr. Boro Grubisic said, the HDSB club absolutely supports the adoption of this law, but we must be honest with ourselves as much as there is in our attempts to draw attention from some other problems and hypocrites. I remember in the end, it was Racan's government, it was filmed "The Four Red", it was released on HRT's first episode and there was just a change, the second episode was never on TV again. You bomb us, and HRT you control, you bomb the Croatian public and youth with countless reruns of the Battle of Neretva, Sutjeska, Kozare, Walter defends Sarajevo, and in seven years' time you have never released a sequel to the Four Orders. And more would our children and the Croatian public and youth learn about communist crimes every year watching at least once a year a movie "Fourthred" than from 50 of our discussions and 10 of these laws. And yet I say the law should be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69734	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69735	My friend Buric, I have something different. I think that if we want to teach young generations and learn that something like this never happens again then we must systematically process our history in an objective and correct way in our textbooks. You may know that the Germans and the French recently wrote a joint history textbook for high school students. So that's the right approach. I believe that every Croatian student should also visit Vukovar and Jasenovac and Bleiburg during primary school. That's my deep conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69736	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's time for the Honorable Representative of Mile Horvat, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I will not talk about this extremely sensitive and serious subject through discussions on historical facts, stating names or individual cases, although I might also point out such things. Now, while we were arguing, I received a couple of messages where some people came to me with some of their life stories of family etc. But I think I'd get away from it. I'm going to say the principles of our attitudes as we view this serious topic. So a few things matter to us. First of all, every victim is a victim and every person who takes a life first of all is looking for a peseta. Presumption of innocence is a rule that applies in every life situation. For each of us to take human life, every man's taken life should know where the grave is, where is the cemetery, to allow the loved ones or those who have a certain subjective relationship to such as they have to light candles. It's something that we think is a civilization reach and something that we think is a sacred thing when it comes to us who have certain Christian principles. There's one more thing that's very important here, and that's that we need to mark the cemetery today. We need to mark first of all for ourselves, for both the living and the dead, and first of all for some of our overall social hygiene that should come out of it. Not that we are doing it because of the EU resolution or because of someone's trends or someone's demands coming out of this environment. So to do this in our opinion in quality and with expected results, that job needs to be done professionally, it needs to be depolitized and done consistently. Of these things, of these elements I will refer mainly to this most important which we think is most important to us, which is consistency in this business. I'm going to say one more thing here, so total among these victims we're talking about right now, so they're not just Croats and Croatian victims. It is not exclusive of only the Croatian people, in this case many have been killed. In the very proposal for a law in Article 1(2), it is regulated, prescribed, the setting, marking and permanent marking of the graves of the victims of a communist crime and even given here a solution in Article 27(2) that the financing of the organisations of the permanent maintenance of the graves of the victims of the communist crime is transferred to the task of the county, that is, if I have correctly understood the local self-government. And that's exactly the fundamental fact of consistency that we insist on. If that's the case, and I think if we accept this solution as finally, then in any case, the thing needs to be institutionalized as this law has said. But I'm asking one basic question then. Why didn't we solve other things so institutionally, firmly and thoroughly? So today we wouldn't have 20 years after the existence of the Croatian state somewhere around or even over 2,000 destroyed, devastated monuments and the markings of graves and graves of victims of antifascism. As a Baranjac, I find it difficult to accept the fact that in one small place Bolman exists a monument that is in a pretty bad state, it's pretty devastated, in a very brutal way they've broken those boards with signs of names, etc., and it's the cemetery of a large mass grave as the end of the operation of the breach of the Srijem front. So the tomb is not buried with communists and only communists. All the participants of this event that took place at the end of World War II were buried. There was also talk of Peter's mountain as one great monumental monument that stands exposed to all possible devastions, even the worst devastation to remove now copper elements from that monument to be sold on some black market. So, in principle, if we say that we are an anti-fascist state, and that's listed in our Constitution as one of the basic postulates, which I agree with, so if we use this anti-fascist quality of ours in the international community then let's be fully consistent, I think we should be consistent so that these external features of that manifestation of anti-fascism that we still have left in order today. Bringing into that civilization order, the civilization level that it demands. Without any further political now lamentations, connotations, etc. So it's our kind of obligation. If, I repeat, if we say so, and I think we are a high-level anti-fascist society. Secondly, we still have hundreds of unmarked, unexplored graves of victims from the last war in the Republic of Croatia. We also think that those victims are looking for their graves and are looking for the possibility of candlelights on those graves. We are fully aware that this law will be passed because we see that there is one general mood to adopt such a legal text and to regulate this subject by law. We don't mind that. We just think that now there was an opportunity to bring in one perhaps more integrated legal text and that all of these things that we've been talking about are being subdued under that one category of missing victims of all the regimes and all the wars in these areas and that once upon a time put on that thing some sort of general assessment. And we think that then was a higher civilizational level of that and a higher quality of that legal solution and so I think that the legal text would be quite thematical, and I think we only set one problem on a one-way basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69738	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69739	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to correct my colleague Horvat when he talked about the importance of the arrangements and monuments that were destroyed in these as he said for 20 years and as regards NOB. It is incorrect, Mr Horvat, because you can influence yourself to make it out of those 350 thousand kunas you received in the closed session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it would be wiser to invest it in the restoration of some NOB monuments than to finance those of your newspaper in which you mock the Croatian state in the first Croatian president by putting horns and vampire teeth on him, and on the other hand I ask Mr Horvat. Do you consider yourself an anti-fascist from the time you participated in an armed rebellion against the Republic of Croatia and fired from cannons from Baranja after then freed part of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69740	Thank you very much. We continue the debate individually. Honorable representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69741	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I have called for a debate on this subject because I think this topic still deserves a slightly richer debate that today's presence in the assembly shows or to be said or at least to hear about this subject a little bit more. I mean, I think that this law is definitely necessary and I think it's good, but as everything in life can be better maybe this one can be corrected in further additions, but here we finally get to one law of this kind that talks about something that happened more than 60 years ago and if it's not time to talk about it now, the question is later will it ever make sense. That's why I support this law, because I think this law deals with something that is most sacred in human life, it's human life itself, and no one could give a greater sacrifice than themselves or a greater sacrifice could be taken from or sought from that life he had, because that life is not just the life of a person who is no more than all those who have been bound in that way. So I think that the marking is very important and that we can actually say that we reach a civilizational level by this law, that we are aware that we have become mature to adopt a law like this and to pay our respects, because in this eternal rest, people we don't know neither their names nor their missing names, but we know that some bodies are found somewhere and that some bodies exist somewhere and that at least as bodies rest in peace if they can't rest on their names and last name and on their grave someone comes to lay flowers, one rose, or pray to God for peace. That is why I repeat the adoption of this law regardless of possible objections, and I am not happy about it when it is manipulated, when it is fled from the topic itself and when it comes to abuse of the subject for some political day-to-day political interests. Of course, life is full of hypocrisy, so hypocrisy can be found in this law, but hypocrisy can also be found in life. I was once a member of a commission in Split who was dealing with the markings of the victims killed in World War II and was simply hypocritical when some late 1980s wanted to raise a monument to someone who had been killed in World War II in one way or another, it was already so far away that it didn't even know who he was and why he got hurt, that it was only then to mark that death and that it was the worst thing that happened so that the one who suggested could say it, so together we were chasing that trench, but here God gave me that I was alive, and he was unfortunately killed. These are traits that were given for the sake of the living, not for the sake of death. However, this law is about a feature that respects human dignity and the right to life and the right to condemn those who do not know who and the question we need at this time to know who they are, the condemnation of those who often took those lives out of pure peace or benefit, and not just political opportunism. I can testify, not personally, but by the story of my mother and my uncle who was partizant, and therefore I understand the difference and respect the difference between partisan and anti-fascists on the one hand, I also support a colleague of Doric in that definition, in the end of the case, he was recognised for that opinion, but also for one partisan who lost his life to the Partisans and for the hypocrisy to be greater, he came to the memorial as a partisans victim than some others. So, the manipulations of this kind were known, and at least now we can civilize that it's time to say that evil was evil, that many were killed, and that no one cared about that suffering, that we were just not going to say now because the bill had long since been said by fellow Hebrang, but that we had succeeded in adopting the law to at least mark those victims, to admit sin and in the name of those who committed this sin, that at least some sort of subjugation was symbolic, that we could come to this forgiveness and that we could come to peace and those who were buried, in any way that they were buried, peace in the families of those who were buried or thrown into the pits and that we could ultimately come to some social peace, that we knew that we had told ourselves some things that we had to say to ourselves that were long ago. And I agree that it was possible 50 years ago, but who knows what our country's political development would have been if we'd been able to say it 50 years ago? So if it's too late, it's never too late, it's still in time to at least now say something about it again, because of the dignity of the dead, the dead, the dead, the thrown into the pits, but also because of the dignity of ourselves who live today and the future that we need to build on our past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69742	Thank you. It's our guest, Branko Box, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69743	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's this special law on this issue. It takes a lot of reasons. First, all attempts to systematically and in detail establish the extent of the crime after the end of World War II were interrupted before that goal was achieved or these were limited initiatives that did not have the necessary resources or were not focused on finding out the full truth about communist crimes. The proportion of these crimes in terms of the number of victims and tombs, as well as their presence in a large geographical area, then the public interest and the need to co-operate with other countries in the former Yugoslavia, but also wider when it comes to the killings of Croatian immigrants and the requirement for the data obtained to be complete, impartial and credible. So all this requires that the Croatian state is engaged through this law to determine the truth about communist crimes. Another reason why such a law is needed is to place a certain point on a historic period. The facts may object that the past should be left alone and not mindful of it, but it should be borne in mind that the unresolved situation regarding tragic historical events is always a good basis for unconstructive arguments based on conjecture and biased assessments that can hardly burden the present. It must not be underestimated by the seal that large-scale crimes can leave for collective memory, whether they happened 10, 20, 50 or 60 years ago. Communist crimes cost more than 2,000 people their lives after the war was over. This figure is only an initial assessment and only for the immediate postwar period. It is obvious that the crimes of such proportions and with such consequences that no carpet is thick enough to push under it, not even a hundred - year - old layer of dust can hide them. No matter how many years it takes, thousands of people killed in an unjust and cruel way cannot be forgotten. The only real way to face such events is to give each victim a pitet, to mark the grave of every person executed in the name of communist ideology and thus give the chance to future generations to look objectively at their history and learn that the winner of war must not become the master of life and death of the defeated. For example, Germany and Japan have shown that it is possible to destroy the evil of fascism without mass executions and revenge against the defeated. Whoever joined the Resistance for moral detestation of the crimes of Nazism would undoubtedly have to feel the same disgust over the crimes committed in revenge against the people who remained at the mercy of the winning side at the end of the war. Giving due respect to the victims of communism does not mean giving up anti-fascism, but it is about respecting the same principle that has driven true anti-fascists into battle. This is not a principle that belongs to antifascism or any other movement but applies universally to all humans and all time. Of course, it's about respecting every man's right to life, regardless of his nationality, language or uniform he wore in the war he ended. In addition to the proposed law going towards establishing the truth about the fate of those executed right after the war, it also includes establishing the truth about the crimes committed in the continuation of the communist regime in camps for political prisoners, as well as abroad where Yugoslav secret services killed Croatian political immigrants for their work on Croatian independence. All these works had important consequences for Croatian history and for the lives of Croatian citizens. The truth about these events must not remain clouded or unspoken. In short, finding, editing and marking graves killed after the end of the war is a matter of respecting civilization's standards. It's not about fighting between fascism and antifascism, right and left, black and red, but about respecting the fundamental, moral principles of human civilization on the determination of truth and respect for victims of any crime. The Croatian Parliament accepted the European Declaration of Conviction of Communist Crimes, and brought the Declaration of Conviction of Communist Crimes committed during the totalitarian Communist Movement in Croatia '45-'90. A year. So, by passing this law, the next step is to finally fulfil the duty to the victims and their families. The establishment of the Office for Detecting, Marking and Maintaining the Graves of Communist Crimes Victims after World War II will revive the work on the organised discovery and marking of the tombs that were interrupted in 2000 by the Commission for the Determination of War and War Crimes of World War II. I will personally support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69744	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honourable Representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69745	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is important to mention the post-war deaths of Croatian civilians in camps, prisons, in trials on charges of helping with shrieking socks, feeding the enemy,... And not communicating with them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the seat of 786 Croats and Croats from Kotor Bjelovarski where the head of OZNA was Mr. Manulić, who from 5 to 25 years of imprisonment with the loss of all civil rights, and of those 786, 300 never returned or knew the grave because he wanted OZNA on suspicion that they were some kind of associates, civilian people, punished under their communist court only because such a proletariat dictatorship wanted only because they had the Croatian names and last names, only because they were Catholics and only because the gang had to be cleaned because they needed to clean up because the doll in the then party system couldn't have been. It was meant to be satated in the root, it was necessary to dispel the Croats, kill them as much as possible so as never again Croatian youth thought it was necessary to resist the evil of communism that was equally bloody, perhaps even more bloody than the Fascism, but both of them are equally bloody and equally responsible for executions, executions without court and without trial.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69746	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69747	Thank you. So, colleague Djakic, you spoke of your territory before. Prior to that, Mr. Šima Djurdjevic spoke of his territory and the loss not at all, but in the middle of '71. and 73. So the time has come for all of us to find out only and only the truth together, nothing else. And my colleague Marinović, I wish you'd discussed this subject and said your experiences on this topic from the '70s to here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69748	Thank you. It is the turn of the replica, the distinguished representative Dragan Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69749	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Box, you were talking about how big Fascism is. I agree that fascism is evil. Only greater evil than fascism is communism. In Croatia, communist criminals are evil. Only greater evil than fascism is communism. In Croatia, communist criminals killed over 2000 Croats after World War II, the biggest crime in Europe's history since World War II. We today March 2, 2011. 66 years after the end of World War II, we're talking about these crimes and we want to legally frame the marking of these graves where these innocently murdered people were killed. I come from a region in eastern Herzegovina, from an ancient Trebin diocese where a little less than 30,000 people lived before World War II. In this Chamber, the name and last name are 5000 people, which was 17% of the total population killed mostly after World War II. It's good that we talk about it today and here we are all day. Croatian people need reconciliation, they need peace. But when innocent victims find their peace, when we mark those places, it'll be easier for all of us. To mention, I don't know if anyone today said that only 650 Catholic priests were killed after World War II in the wake of members of the Croatian people. Your crimes are terrible. Finally, certain investigations take place. It's not the subject of this law. It's the subject of other bodies. But this law will not prevent investigations from ending at least after 66 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69750	Thank you. And the reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69751	Thank you. Well, you mentioned your colleague Vukic to the priests. I agree with the fact that we talked too little today about the loss of priests in World War II and World War II. That information you presented, unfortunately, is correct. So, every one of us in our space has experience on the subject again, and I come from Benkovec a few years ago from the expansion of the cemetery, it seems to me to me in Makarska that the remains of Fransel Cumber a Franciscan have been found that originates right out of my area. So I agree that we need to talk as much about this subject as possible because of us and those who come behind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69752	Thank you. And as the last individual, for this subject clearly, the distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69753	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a lot of what's been said today about the crimes committed in World War II especially after the forty-fiveth year. I want to say something about the crimes committed in Vinkovci especially because of victims of communist and Partisan terror in 1945. After the entry of the partisan units into Vinkovce during April 1945, it was the forty-eightth Macedonian and twenty-first Serbian brigade. He began to persecute the Germans but also to kill the Croatian Vinkovchans. Many dignitaries, priests, workers, and peasants were questioned, convicted, imprisoned, and murdered. Some did not have any trial but on the second day of the entry of these partisan units, executions began. The killings, according to witnesses who witnessed that time, lasted several days at the time of Kuman’s brick, where the largest mass grave in the Vinkovac area was created. This is witnessed by various documents, including a letter from family members, families killed by children, husbands, brothers, and who were buried on Kuman’s brick, but based on evidence, so shallow that parts of their bodies were sticking out of the pit. The families sought this letter from the bodies of their loved ones in order to bury them with dignity. There were several deaths, so 40 of them were known by name and last name. But the number of people killed and dumped in that pit was much higher. After 1945, the Vinkovites secretly lit candles on the Day of All Saints at the scene of this terrible crime. For years, the victims' families tried to properly mark the site of death until they organized themselves in the Committee for the Marking of Victims of Communist Terror, which led with Mr. Anto Miljko in Vinkovci, along with the city's headship, the mayor of 9.6.2006 managed to build a monument. A monument to the victims of communism where the relatives of the killed have the opportunity to bring flowers and light candles. I believe that the adoption of this law is good because this opportunity as we in Vinkovci will also give our families of our murdered in Vinkovci the opportunity to mark graves and maintain graves for here and elsewhere in the Republic of Croatia to light candles and lay flowers for their killed in World War II or after World War II.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69754	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69755	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Here we have spent all day in the debate, which was only to give confession to the victim, the victim who was created by abuse not only of World War II, but of the abuse of one ideology, the communist ideology that killed anyone who didn't think, as those who killed an opponent of political, ideological, who killed a man. There have been really good contributions and suggestions in the debate, which should be taken into account when this law comes to life, and above all thanks to the HSS Club which has made a great contribution to this law and I think we will jointly continue and oversee the implementation of this law, where Parliament will be the roof institution to oversee this law. However, there have been some distortions, and I am particularly sorry, for that demeaning of the victims again. Turning is every turn and every debate that tries to equate post-war communist victims with the victims of World War II. Spin has expanded this problem to World War II, it is the spin of those who cannot survive that their antifascism, unfortunately in one part, has grown into malignant communism. And for this reason, requiring victims to be convicted in the same way in World War II and these in the past means to demand equalising rules of war that are bloody and heavy for all parties in conflict, which are amoral, which are low, with those noble, legal regulations that govern the rule of law in peace, and peace was after 9 May 1945 and after that date there were no more fascists, because they were happily defeated, and therefore could no longer be anti-fascists, they remained only communists. I allow that in one of our short periods, in our premises from May 9th and for the next 2 to 3 weeks there are outlaws who have opposed the new state. Of course, the state reacted in the way all the rule of law responds, and in these armed conflicts, one number of these outlaws were liquidated. This law does not speak of them, these outlaws are not anonymous victims, these outlaws were killed in an armed conflict and I assume by legal, then Yugoslav state, buried under the name and last name. So we're not talking about them. When Mr. Mesic and others who protect the perpetrators of these crimes try to say that they were killed, then they show fundamental ignorance of history, but unfortunately and legal science. It couldn't be the blame of those who have no weapon in their hand, who have a wire tied hand to their mate, for their child, for their mother or wife, and who was killed without a court. That can't be his fault. So turning to World War II reminds me of the times when the late President Tudjman wanted to build a common tomb for all who died for Croatia, regardless of which side, we heard these proposals today, and then you accused him of doing the same thing today that you suggest wants to mix bones. One day, the bones will be mixed, because every bone regardless of the ideology that the owner of that bone belonged to is human, and if the man is above all else, and he'd have to be above all else, then we won't tell the dead. I hope that time will experience this generation of ours. As far as this law is concerned, he will, of course, have no support in our left media, as you can see from the portals after a full-day debate almost not even mentioned. He's somewhere in a snide style. No need to be surprised, because neither the first reading in which the representatives of the right and left reached consensus in the most part is mentioned in any single journalistic text. Why? Because for such supporters of the opposition between Croatians and Croatian citizens and citizens, it is very bad when left and right agree on the historical issue, then they no longer see the topic on which to earn their bread and when from those black rifles as columnists communists shoot at the people, and the people don't see them because they are hidden in their offices behind their laptops and cannot answer them, they earn bread on the people's division. I am happy that this law is a significant step in overcoming these divisions of ours, because we have reached a consensus of the vast majority of speakers here today compared to the victim. What else should be noted here is that as a country we are significantly late, unfortunately we are significantly behind schedule and we can get our heads down into Europe when asked what you have done in relation to the victims of communist crimes. Our Slovenian neighbors were much more industrious, they showed more dignity to the victim. According to the 1998 survey, 40 mass graves in Slovenia containing Croatian or Croatian civilians, 40 mass graves in Slovenia, are listed in about 150 thousand in these tombs of victims. We didn't even establish cooperation with the neighboring friendly investigators of these crimes, to help them together and to damage these victims together. So now it's time for this office, and it says in law, to assume all the international obligations Croatia has towards its neighbours, because there are graves of victims in both Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, Serbia, and Macedonia. These are the final arms of the crossroads, and there are the last graves of Croatian civilian victims. Why and how did I come up with the idea of making that law in the first place? I have to tell you about this event, about five years ago, I went to visit Maceljska Mountain, because I was very interested in how it could happen that there are so many bones underground and that it's kept quiet. I didn't think those stories were true. I asked a priest from the Đurmanac, Fr. Brglez, a humanist, a man who devoted his life to correct at least part of the injustice against the Macelian victims, and I went up with him to Maceljska Mountain and saw something that a normal man can't even dream of. I've seen defiled pits where there are dozens and dozens and hundreds of remains, I've seen torn crosses and those laid out in the time of Yugoslavia, and those set behind the '90s, I've seen the interred paths leading to these roads, I've seen the scattered remains of trees and branches so that they couldn't even get close to those sites. And so disappointed to return with Fr. Brglez on foot to the village of Fruk, it is the village under the floor of Macelska Up, and already in the driveway of the village we meet a grandmother in black. And the priest comes up to her and says, "Grandmother, will you tell our doctor the council representative that you remember about this Macell Mountain when you were little?" My grandmother whispered, whispered so quietly that I had to put my ear to her mouth to hear what she was saying. So I say to her, "Grandmother, what are you whispering about?" And she says, "They're still here." As a child, she was banned from going to Maceljska Gora where they wanted to read the pitch and the children to play, and then her mother told her and why she couldn't go up, she told this story. She says my mother told me that after the war ended, it was already the end of May '45. Over our house up in the hill there's a lot of gunshots. And my mother says one day she asks each other with a five-point head, so what happens when the war is over? Well, he thinks, and he says, "You got a real grandmother who won't shoot again." As of that day, no more shots were fired, from that day on, all skulls were smashed with an axe. It's a Macel Mountain, half a bullet hole in the skull, and half a broken skull. It's the mother of the grandmother's fault that she asked the other one, so the other one changed the way she was liquidated. This moved me to get more acquainted with this period, and here this law has resulted in this law that I think will honor and confess to those who have a hole in the back of their head and those who have a broken skull with an axe. Unfortunately, there are like I said in 8 long directions of the crossroad we will not talk about now because you can really see it in numerous historical books, but here it should mention that the work of this office will extend all the way to the first direction that ends through old Pazova-Zemun-Belgrade in the White Church, the second direction that goes from Bleiburg via Šido, Mitrovica and Belgrade; the third direction across Jesenica to Brežica and Zagreb; the fourth direction on which these cemeterys will be located across Delnice in Rijeka and then from Celjelj to Zagreb and then from Zagreb-Banova Jaruga to Bosanska Gradiška, and the seventh direction across Stupnik-Jastrebarski to Gline; the eighth through Ijdovština-Ilirska Bistrica to Rijeka. These are all directions to find about 900 pits and several tens of thousands of victims. It would be an opportunity to mention camps. We haven't talked much about camps so far. The camps were at several hundred localities in Croatia. I'll just mention the ones we visited in Zagreb. These are your camps in Jankomir, Presco, Kanal, Mirogoj, Maksimir, not to mention the northern parts of the city. Then outside Zagreb in Varazdin, Bjelovar, Karlovac, Krapina, Virovitica, Požega, Osijek, Slavonski Brod. In these camps and in their surroundings and in the center of Zagreb, here in the Sava road, you have findings of bones that will finally get their inscription, your dignity and your honor. We have to call on history when we're wondering how that could have happened. It could have happened because the sick minds that unfortunately belonged to the former anti-fascist, and then to the communist movements and politicians, passed the victory into the most terrible crime that could have been expected. So I'm going to quote Mark Belinic's speech on May 18th, '45, so that's when he ended the war on any of the criteria that he said, "Our duty is to find and destroy them." The only law we're going to apply is a bullet." Marko Belinić – talks about the bullet, the big man. "Employees have the right to liquidate them on the spot, whether they say they have permission from the city's command or not." The one who cuts the law. "We gained that license during our hard and bloody struggle. We are guided by what our Russian brothers taught us." And he calls for the famous doctrine of Stalin's who said, "The enemy can only beat the dead." In addition to these quotes, we can remember recently in our published Slunja UDBA press, which informed the Ogulinska UDBA and announced a month-long competition with the National Militia on the number of gang liquidations on the ground. It's a sports game that's gonna get more innocent heads rolled up. Or Milovan Gilas who wrote about the so-called "noble hatred" for the enemy. And he says like this, I quote, "To have mercy and pity for these beasts, after World War II, means to fail our fight." Or, for example, The fifth army to send a report to the commander, Commander-in-chief Joseph Broz Tito, says: "We have done everything by following prisoners on the cross road to raise hatred with our fighters because they have recently begun to kill without great fire." Or, for example, Sucker hospital on May 15th, '45, just so we know what we're talking about today. A public prosecutor of the Bani district writes a report to the public prosecutor of the then Socialist Republic of Croatia. He says like this: "In Sisak is the First Battalion 2 days after Sisak was released," so 2 days after the stopped battles Sisak was released by Partizan. "The first battalion came to the mammal's hospital around 9:00 p.m. and they took 900 wounded and killed them." The sheep are a sequence of such behaviors. He says, "There is little talk in the people because there is fear." Fear reigned until the day I heard that grandmother whispers, fear governments today, but fear is more dangerous to the intent of many of our media, journalists who have called us in the past days after a statement by Mr. Minister Karamark that we want to rattle someone's costumes. They accused us of doing it because the same ones we're talking about now would bury someone's bones underground again. Shame, even if it comes from left Croatian journalists. And in the end I can't help but mention someone here said, it seems to me Mr. Cain, he's gone, who's to blame for all this. Who knew about all these crimes? Well, for a long time, we had to think and discuss who knew about all these crimes and above all who ordered them. Thanks to Serbian journalist Mr. Peri Simic, it is today a secret that has been discovered. It was published in his book "Tito phenomenon of the century" in the edition of the Evening edition a year ago and you can buy it today in almost all the bookstores of the City of Zagreb. On page 220, Mr. Šimić quotes the testimony of Jefte Sasic. Jefto Sasic is one of the famous communist executioners, he was the head of the 3rd Counterintelligence Department of OZNA, it was the scariest department, the counterintelligence that had to organize an entire bloody feast in front of OZNA killers. He describes Jeff Sasic's testimony when he was one day between May 9th and 12th, '45. He couldn't remember correctly calling Joseph Broz Tito, I read: "Sašić stood as buried, his right hand touched the temple because of the salutation, Tito continued to walk from end to end of the cabinet without giving any indication that he was noticing his Slavonic colonel," the origin of Jephthah Sasic, "when he heard a mumbling from his mouth, he became afraid that Tito might not have lost his mind. Fear had already begun to turn into a shiver when Tito suddenly stopped, raised his head, and stared at some imaginary point, talked, killed. Sasic was watching inexhaustibly and Tito had his hand up in the direction of the west, go to Slovenia and Austria and give this command to our armies. I understand, comrade marshal, Sasic replied. The vast majority of those subject to this order had already laid down their weapons before England in English troops in Austria and Italy, but the British had betrayed them to the communists. It was the biggest mass crime committed in Europe following the capitulation of Nazi Germany." Well, now that we know the culprit, we know his followers, now we have to give dignity to the victims who have been killed and to begin to finally write the truth about Croatian history. Writing the truth about Croatian history will avoid a bloody Croatian future. And so again I point out the only thing more important than the Croatian future is that it never repeats the bloody Croatian history again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69756	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will now move to a vote on the debated and closed agenda points, so above all, I would like to engage to see if we need a quorum. Please engage and see if we're engaged. The result? It's turned 81, but there's more of us, but here we go, and that's enough. So we're going to vote. The final proposal of the Law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II. It was a second reading, P.Z. No. 396. Proposer of HDZ and HSS representatives clubs. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ and HSS Joint Club, and they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendments were also submitted by the War Veterans Committee. I would like the representative of the Proposer, Mr. Andrija Hebrang, to take note of the amendment submitted by the Committee on War Veterans, which refers to Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69758	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69759	This amendment has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the bill. I therefore vote on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of Graves of Victims of Communist Crimes after World War II. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. The result? The bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 93 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and one against, together with the amendments adopted. We move to - Final proposal of the Law on subsidisation and state guarantee of residential loans, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 717 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Branko Bačić, Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69761	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The law on subsidisation and the state guarantee of residential loans, with the final proposal of the law, is one of the first-row economic recovery measures for overcoming the adverse situation in construction, better said in one segment of construction, which is the construction of apartments or housing. With this law and its implementation, we expect to start more intensive sales of apartments in the Republic of Croatia, and this will also start a new cycle of construction of new apartments, thus helping to preserve existing and create new jobs in construction on the one hand. On the other hand, this law also contains a very clear social component, i.e. measure and encourage young people and families to decide, under the favourable conditions that this law allows, to buy an apartment and resolve their living issue. In the introduction, I would also like to say that according to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which has our ministry in the first three quarters of 2010 about 8344 apartments were built or built. On the basis of relevant data, it is estimated that from the beginning of the recession in the Republic of Croatia, up to today there are about 10 to 13 thousand unsold apartments with a total value of more than 5 billion kuna. The comparison of this data with the data from the previous period shows that during 2009, there was a significant stagnation in the sale of apartments on the real estate market, i.e. that construction has less and less work to do and that this adverse situation continued in 2010 with a trend to continue in 2011. Analysing the overall situation in the housing, as well as the applicable legislation under this authority, the Government proposes to adopt this law and to enable or assist the sale of apartments and start a new cycle of housing building in the Republic of Croatia. This law regulates the subsidisation of interest or the subsidisation of loans taken by citizens from business banks for the purchase of apartments for the purpose of resolving their housing issues and also defines and provides guarantees from the Republic of Croatia to business banks for the payment of interest on residential loans which citizens cannot repay due to the sudden loss of income. The subsidy is granted for a maximum loan of up to 100000 euros, and the maximum price of one m2 of apartment cannot be higher than 1900 euros per m2 which includes value added tax. For such a loan, the owner of the apartment of the state gives about 14000 euros, which is about 14% of the value of the loan, and 8% of the total amount that the buyer returns to the bank. In this way the state actually gives the buyer the amount needed to equip that apartment the owner of the apartment buys. According to data available by our ministry, the average housing credit granted last year in the Republic of Croatia is 70000 euros per apartment. In view of the financed resources in the State budget for 2011, we believe that, on the basis of such an estimated apartment, we will be able to subsidise around 950 apartments, i.e. in two years, how long the law lasts around 1900 apartments could be subsidized by the basis of this law. The law provides that on behalf of the Government, the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation will pay monthly annuities in the first four years. The maximum interest or effective interest rate agreed with the business banks in the Republic of Croatia will be at a maximum of 4.95% in the first three years of credit. The amount of the monthly annuity of the bank in respect of the purchaser’s salary, and the amount of the monthly annuity of the bank in the amount of the State’s salary via APN, 12 months in advance. After a four-year period under this law, the bank must not increase the interest rate of more than 10% of the fixed interest rate, so if it is 4.95% in this case the interest rate of the next two years should not increase more than 5.45% of the subsidisation model refers to new built-in apartments that have a building act and have an expendable permit. The seller of the apartment can be an investor, it can be a performer, it can be an agency, etc. Therefore, the seller of the apartment is not predetermined to be only one of the owners of the apartment, but the owner of the apartment or seller may be either an investor, a builder, a contractor, an agency, a divoper or a third. It is estimated that this model is about 70% more favourable than the commercial loans that are now in circulation for four years as long as the subsidisation of loans by the Republic of Croatia is. The second part of the law refers to the granting of state guarantees to a buyer who in the business bank in the Republic of Croatia takes up residence credit in the period from the date of entry into force of the law, until the end of this year and until 31 December 2011. The Republic of Croatia thus guarantees payment of interest on housing loans for a maximum period of one year from the date on which the credit user is unable to pay the same amount, and due to loss of business. The advantage of the credit-user law is that the requirements for obtaining credit will be resolved in one place, i.e. in the bank and the future customer of the apartment will not have to visit the bank, but other state bodies will already be able to do everything in one place. In the budget of the Republic of Croatia for this year, an additional 8 million kuna has been allocated to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, 20 million and 800,000 kuna, and within the Ministry we will be able to ensure the full implementation of this law. We believe that the implementation of this law can indeed encourage housing in the Republic of Croatia, as I said in my introduction, primarily because we hold that by implementing this law, we will encourage young people who are solving their housing issue to really move towards resolving their housing issue. The fact is that according to our ministry, the average interest rate on housing loans in last year in the Republic of Croatia was about 6.5%, and that the implementation of this law would make the interest rate at a maximum of 4.95%. So we believe that the total amount of funds needed to buy the apartment is significantly reduced in that part too, and that this will certainly be a significant incentive for customers to actually go into the purchase of apartments and the purchase of apartments in the Republic of Croatia. Here we are, therefore, holding that this law will encourage the sale of apartments in the Republic of Croatia, so the Government proposes that the Parliament adopt this law in an emergency procedure. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69762	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, chairman of the Committee, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69763	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So at the 51st session held on 2 March, the Labour and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on subsidisation and state guarantee of residential loans. In his opening statement, the proposing representative pointed out that the proposed law would launch the sale of existing apartments, start a cycle of construction of new apartments to help preserve existing and create new jobs. He stressed that the adoption of this law would allow citizens of the Republic of Croatia to resolve their housing issue under more favourable conditions by buying a new apartment, or by buying a bigger apartment. Namely, the buyer of the apartment that raises the loan under the proposed law has the advantage of reducing the bank's effective interest rate by at least 1.2 in the first four years of repayment of the loan, i.e. that it is up to a maximum of 4.95%. In the debate, most board members supported the adoption of this law but there were also criticisms. I'll try to briefly just mention them here. The criticism was that there was a complete housing policy missing which would solve most of the housing problem and allow for the construction of apartments for rent. Furthermore, the opinion was expressed that this model could solve a small part of the problem, and that the state should take over the loan subsidy of up to 150,000 euros, not as proposed up to 100,000 euros. The debate also expressed its opinion that the problem is thought to be a positive effect. The reason for stagnation of the sale of apartments under the fall of the purchasing power of citizens while the proposed law contains a whole series of restrictions for the realisation of loans such as years of life, repayment deadlines etc. An opinion has been put forward that should prescribe and clearly define relations between investors and contractors when it comes to compensation. The debate also indicated that banks on their part should take part of the risk in this economic situation, and units of local and regional self-government should be more actively able to address their citizens' housing problems. The debate estimated that this law will help resolve the housing issue of a large number of young people, and thus encourage the up-to-date housing. After the debate, the board proposed most of the votes to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Subsidisation Act and the state guarantee of residential loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69764	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69765	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Immediately in the introduction of the Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support this bill regardless of the remarks I will make through the debate only from the position of need in view of an extremely large number of built and unsold apartments. Secondly, an extremely large number of unemployed builders who ended up at the Employment Service precisely because of the reduction of activity in the construction sector, especially in the housing sector, are something we have witnessed for several years. And thirdly, a year ago, we were almost in the House discussing a bill where, at this point in time, time confirmed that those findings and remarks that we had on that bill, unfortunately we were right, we lost almost a year, in those years we sold only 60 apartments, from the great number that was planned, and then we said that. We are not sure, in the club of the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party, we are not sure that this bill will also achieve the effect we heard in the introduction and from the motion of Mr. Bačić, rather timidly written in the opening explanations of this draft of the Final Proposal of the Law on subsidisation and the State Guarantee of Housing Loans, because the fact that this bill introduces two newspapers that we proposed a year ago, and in this sense the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party has sent one proposal to the Law on the promotion of the sale of apartments built unsold apartments that have been squatted in the agenda for a year, only because of the opposition, but two key elements of our bill are included here. It is good and we are glad to understand the potential of individual measures. The first is that APN, which only has experience through one very successful and indestructible model of POS, encouraging housing, was a strong attempt to destroy the model, but the model was maintained, has experience in this as agencies. Another good thing to do through public procurement was to negotiate lending with banks, which is one of the key elements in POS, APN and POS, and encouraging housing. And thirdly, which is the category of guarantee introduced, because one of the key elements why and why citizens don't go into buying an apartment next to high capital prices or better said interest, the other part was insecurity in employment, or uncertainty in the possibility of paying off credit. This problem is now being solved with this guarantee fund, which we have proposed through our bill, popularly called post plus. It's a shame that that measure wasn't included in that bill a year ago, too. The effects of that bill would certainly be stronger than they are today, and we lost a year. The fact that, I mean, why isn't this measure economical, and why is this measure social? She's not an economic character for two very simple reasons. First, the possibility of subsidizing interest, I'm not going in now why in 4 years, and the arrangement was made with the banks as it was made, he's good, could it be different, quite certain, but at this point not... just because of the responsibility of the Circ. 5.2 billion that we've been frozen in, at least according to the assessment of the situation of this bill that we've been frozen in built and unsold apartments, just because of the 26,000 and 280 that the unemployed were in 2010 and certainly one significantly higher figure by the end of 2011, it's not time to bid on whether or not another variant could have been made, it certainly was, but it was done so. [[You don't understand.]] However, the key problem is that it is the manual of 2012. As this entire system enters, while it is adopted in the Parliament, and I hope it will be adopted in the Assembly, while implementing measures are made, while contracts with banks, while APN makes its own, we will lose two to three more months. In other words, we pass a law that, when we talk about subsidized interest, will have a period of one and a half days, until the end, by 31.12.2012. Another thing which is a far bigger problem, and we do not see why and why, and this is the government guarantee provided by this bill, will be able to use the customers of the apartment only if they stay, normally if they enter the unemployed category, means according to these criteria which are not exactly clearly written in this bill, surely that it would be necessary, through the implementing regulations, to clarify this far more clearly what it means to be without a job, whether by their guilt or guilt of something else, because there is a difference, but possible purchasers of the apartment will be able to use this guarantee exclusively if they remain without a job until 31.12.2011. What happens to those who lose their jobs, enter the purchase of apartments, run out of work in 2012? What about them? They don't have a right? Thirdly, given the restriction on the first apartment, it is very sharp, and this measure confirms that this bill is more social than a measure to launch the economy. Because if we want to start an economy, then what's the restriction? What's the restriction? In that previous bill of law that experienced its fiasco, we were tied to licenses. We're not here. We entered with two good measures, which is relatively low interest, state support covering part of the interest, guarantee fund, but we also limited ourselves to time, at the end of 2012, within a guaranteed deadline at the end of 2011. We've limited ourselves to the first purchase of real estate. So if our goal, and this should be the goal, to run the apartment, to run the entire economic branch, to contribute to a total drop in liquidity that is over 36 billion, with these 5 billion, or if that's 4 billion, I mean it's hard at this point to be precise, but quite certainly... 5 billion, then what do you commit to the deadlines, what do you commit to the deadlines if ultimately the effects of converting frozen capital into living capital are, if the effects are through increased VAT revenue, if the effects are through increased real estate tax? [[You don't understand.]] Then what's the limit? We at the HNSU club think there's no need for these restrictions. However, if there is a need to open the space to, with these 2 quality measures, mean lower capital prices and other, a guarantee fund for those who will lose their jobs, and almost certainly that the economic downturn is ours, I think our economic activities are constantly falling and it is difficult to expect or it is difficult to hope that this will go more significantly in a positive direction, but certainly there is no need if we want to use the potential there is no need to limit it. And finally, something when we don't have a chance because the will of the parliamentary majority doesn't come with our bill, there's no possibility of discussion, and in the agenda I've been repeating it for almost a year, which is very simple. What's he offering? In addition to this 2 variations, in addition to this 2 measures, means low interest, the guarantee offers very short for citizens to buy apartments under favourable conditions, safety in case of loss of work and temporary inability to pay up to 18 months. It's supposed to be here for a year, and we've offered up to 18 months. Their solution to the housing issue, regardless of whether it's the first apartment, first purchase. For investors, sales of apartments, return on capital, secured payment. For banks repay credit for citizens, repayment of credit granted to citizens for the purchase of the apartment. Because in addition to what we offer for banks, and therefore ours, based on our proposal, and this proposal that the Government has now offered us, the capital price is relatively low because our proposal to the banks gives us two key assets, which they have raised their capital price. And that's a guarantee, so the security of payment and we offered in case of an enforcement of the lower guaranteed or guaranteed price that APN will buy back from the banks in case the buyer of the apartment enters the procedure. For the country to invest from 1 kuna only on the occasion of VAT, it is 1.3 kuna with a real estate tax to 1.4 kuna. The return of total interest money in the second part of the payment period, since it is a POS plus model, the preservation of jobs, growth in production, liquidity of wages and contributions. Through discussions on committees, there were objections to this proposal. Since we have offered this proposal in our first reading if we really want to ensure very concrete measures for a concrete objective, let's open the debate and let's complete this proposal through the debate. We at the HNSU Club are ready for all the good ideas that ultimately give citizens the opportunity to buy, to settle their housing issue at the lowest price, and to enable all those who have entered into the building of apartments to sell it, but not in a way that provides extra profits to their banks in the whole business and not in a way that in this whole business we can ensure fertilisation through one such variant. This bill makes it impossible to do so, but the potency of this bill certainly does not correspond to the potential we have and the need that we have when we talk about economic recovery measures. And finally, I repeat, the HNS-HSU Club will once again support this bill regardless of the remarks, because at this point everything that gives any possibility of starting the system is important. And the one we've had so far has been ineffective and his results after eight months of application talk about failure and stubbornness at the moment we said it was wrong. But the parliamentary majority chose the solution, which was obviously a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69766	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69767	I would just like to correct my colleague, given that today on the board we have debated that it is not true that all the laws proposed by the opposition are rejected, and when we spoke about your law that you proposed on behalf of the CNS, the addition of the Law on Socially Encouraged Housebuilding, and the promoter himself, in principle, agreed in part with the fact that this law is not legally written enough. So he can't argue like that or argue like that. And that it would be good as an initiative is not misjudged, but to try to write more in principle in writing about the law itself and try to see with the ministry how to be legally well written so that it could be discussed as some law at all. Because in principle, he doesn't offer anything concrete except to relocate everything to the government that should bring something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69768	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69769	Here's the good news. It's always more pleasant to talk when a little bit like this breaks the relaxed atmosphere at first. Well, here's the good day, Honorable President of the Parliament. First of all, I'm going to read this part about the consequences that law-making is going to take place. It says that first of all, the sale of existing apartments will be launched, and for the purpose of building new apartments, for the purpose of preserving existing and creating new jobs, thus helping the construction industry and the large number of small entrepreneurs and craftsmen associated with it. So, first of all, that claim is not true. Simply because if you do not let the market adjust, if you do not reduce prices, that is to say, you do not reduce prices and the housing has dropped three times in Croatia in the last three years since 2008. In the future, double less apartments will be built and even fewer people will work in construction. And according to some of my estimates around this dynamic, which now builds apartments with less dynamics in the coming years, will further lose 25,000 jobs. So the only conditions to start building new apartments are to sell the old ones in most parts or to cut prices. Now, what else is there to say? We had a crisis when the models started, so sometimes it started unfortunately for a year to save companies some of these models didn't come to life as for example. Model B, we also had a model by selling apartments with this trigger with a threshold of up to 600 euros, that model also did not live. And every new model or every new state interventionist in the form of a law is an additional opportunity for speculation. And it's a de facto speculation, because we're sending vague messages this way I'd say to the sales sector, to trade and to all those who are on the market and who are going to sell apartments. Instead of now they're lowering the prices of apartments they're going to view in this way they might also be looking at this model where for four years we're actually giving half of the countries subsidized, half the amount of the war, and at a more favourable interest rate, maybe again with this model of the price of the apartments they're going to grow. So it's an extra space for speculation. And I'd say exhibitionism is particularly harmful in times of crisis, especially if it's done and happens several times. This is already another attempt to intervene on the real estate market. Now, problem number one is that the housing market doesn't work, the main bank and developers refuse to cut prices and even at the cost of the construction industry's collapse. Okay. That's why the sale of apartments is twice as small, and that's the subject we're talking about again. It means that in the future the expected loss in construction as far as jobs are concerned will be another 25 thousand. And in this way there is no real basis for launching any economic investment activities. And in the right sense, Mr. Koračević found this is not an economic measure, this is a social measure. The economic measure is to introduce order in payment, the economic measure is to encourage a certain industry by creating some new value, fostering production that has fallen and then on wings I would tell optimism and new employment to stimulate consumption. Realistically, in Croatia today, an increasing number has growing credit opportunities. So people can't raise loans, they can't raise large loans, some can't even raise loans. That's one problem. This law again seems to have been sucked out of the finger without any real assessment of the current market situation or who is all the potential beneficiary of these loans or who would dare and enter such a risk I would say delayed. Why? Because you have a situation where, by subsidising interest in the first 4 years and by revoking the war, you delay the whole story for 4 years, and what you're starting with selling apartments from which, because of this threshold of 900 euros, which is also one vague message that is being sent to the real estate market, so the first threshold on the first proposal was a thousand 600 euros, now the top threshold of 1,000 euros is the question is whether or not it goes to the banks, right? I guess so. And that's also one segment that makes me say the risk and then the lack of clarity of the model is at stake. And now you have a situation that now for four years you're postponing the problem and you say in four years there's going to be some other situation and people are going to be able to pay the cost of the apartments. First, we need to see who's willing to go into that risk at all. Secondly, the question is, are people going to get into that risk at all? 3. Once these measures will fill the state budget through value added tax, one time, in the long run, as in potentially risky investments, they will have to open up to a period of 4 years of great uncertainty in these people who, after those 4 and another 2 years of that protected interest rate, will have to think about what will then be. So the question is whether the situation will also be great in 4 years and whether people will be able to pay and service their obligations properly. So this way the problem is being delayed, the short-term solution is I think it's actually going to show that it's not being solved. It's actually stupid for me to say that it's getting rid of because it's probably going to happen that this model isn't going to work either. Why? Because people will wait and neither will reduce prices because of the new state interventionism as an additional space for speculation, right. That's how when you have one model then all the views are in that model, let's not bring down the prices yet. Now here comes the new model of financing, so we'll wait until we sell the apartments. And that's what happens in every form I'd say exhibitionism. So the only solution is actually to let the market adjust, the only solution in these emerging circumstances. Because if one model doesn't pass, then another model is like that, it's not like it has any good guesses of success. Against price keeping, which is logically not, are certain investors and bankers on the one hand, and a sharp resistance is given to them by real estate intermediaries, appraisers, architects, construction engineers and even a number of banks that have not entered into the financing of a non-stop amount of apartments. It's mostly two-bedroom apartments, because the only two-bedroom apartments in this model are possible for sale. This is why the price will be paid by all those who live off that market with the aim of saving the level of prices. And that's why I can only conclude in the end that this model you've now offered with the trigger at 1900 euros is an indication that it's going to save the price, that's the original reason, not to save jobs. It means you're going to save the price at the cost of losing your jobs. Because, realistically, without a drop in prices, there won't be a new construction cycle in the apartment, and we all know that here. And that's how much I'd say exhibitionism again, so it's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69770	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69771	Thank you very much. My colleague, that the problem will not be solved, it was your basic setting here, because the whole debate was actually on your assumptions and the assumptions that you tried to challenge the government's initiative, which is partly social, but it's also economically stimulating and it doesn't need to run away from it. I think it would be best if you asked young people who today can't solve their housing problem, who fuck by sub-inhabitation, they could best answer you, and I can show you now some memos that I got from citizens, and yet that the law was not passed, but what is written from the media that support the government in that initiative. And you might ask what the City of Zagreb has done for its citizens to solve the problem of solving the housing problem. Unfortunately, nothing. And there's the whole problem. So I think you'd better deal with this problem because it's supposed to have 3 to 4 thousand, as far as I've read, unresolved housing problems in Zagreb. I do not believe that the City of Zagreb with its budget could not help its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69772	More replicas, right? ... Let's move on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69773	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. So here we are facing the Law on subsidisation and state guarantee of housing loans whose purpose is to overcome the unfavourable situation in housing and help citizens buy an apartment under more favourable conditions. As you know today, colleagues have been saying that last year we passed a Law to encourage the sale of apartments that encouraged the purchase of apartments for those citizens who buy the first apartment or for those who buy the larger apartment, as it was of course wanted to help citizens get to the apartment more easily, but also to builders who are in a difficult state to intensify their housing. Unfortunately, as Mr. Koracevic said, the law did not give the results expected, only 74 applications were granted and 68 apartments were purchased. The APN, however, has done an analysis which has led to this. The basic reason is the same as in POS, which is the credit incompetence of citizens and it's a terrible big problem because people get it, there's a lot of demands, a lot of people get it, they make it about the list, and when they need people to get credit, they can't take it because they're creditworthy. The other thing that came up here in this case is that investors or how they like to call themselves developers built apartments, they didn't pay the builders, they gave them apartments instead of money. These people couldn't register with those apartments if they didn't pay 5% of the sales tax, which means other words that the builders should carry that 5%, and those apartments should be 5% cheaper. Of course, they couldn't and the apartments they gave them, and today, for example, on the Committee of Representatives of the HUP, she was talking about how this compensation should be encouraged. It's a disaster. These people, these big investors, these big developers need to pay for what they order, not give up another apartment and then bring the builders into a situation like they did. However, this happened, and of course these are the main two reasons why they failed to sell more apartments. Today, both in POS or APN or in the state of Croatia, however you will, there are 111 unsold apartments, we do not know who they will sell them to. The state, although there were twice as many people on the list as the housing was built, was also not the unit of local self-government that bought those apartments so that they could put their social welfare inside because the POS Act allowed them to do so, nor would so many apartments be sold as it was. That's why I think this proposal is a good proposal because this proposal still provides something that the previous proposal did not allow, and that means that it is being obtained, that people are getting grants. So I would say to Mr Bernardić that I don't understand what his delay means for half the war when it's not a delay, it's a grant. And if you read it well then you can clearly see that the first four years a man pays only half of the war and the mains and interest, and that amounts, so these payments and those wars are actually this 2/3, because those first wars are bigger always than the wars that come after that. So it's not about the delay, it's about the state giving Croatia to people, let's say who buys an apartment for 100,000 euros and gives it 14,000 euros for all time. It's also good that these people, that they've agreed with the banks before, have tried to negotiate with banks, but obviously it wasn't the kind of force they're looking at right now, so they've accepted that 4.95% interest, and they've also accepted that the next two years, so after this four years, the interest won't increase by more than 10%, so it's going to be 5.4%. Of course, there must be certain conditions, and I agree that this is not what it is, that it is more a social measure than an economic measure, but that this should also lead to an increase in the engagement of builders with the fact that we must never forget that in Croatia there will never be as many apartments built up to the herd. Because whoever had any money, whoever had something, thought it was the smartest investment in the apartment, and that's where we're gonna make the most money. You know who built all the apartments, these so-called. developers, people who have nothing. He's got both a ficus and an office and he's done. And they built such apartments, and now the state needs to worry about these apartments being sold. Well, I think there's some things we've mixed up here. Of course it is necessary to help everyone, of course it is necessary to help people who do not have apartments, and that is why I think it is a good measure. Also, I think it's good to give people who are out of work a guarantee, in fact to banks, and that the moment when a man deals with a bank credit if it's after this law, if he loses his job after that he can show up at the state and with the bank and the APN then enables him to get through of course state funds because all these funds must be secured in the state budget. There are no other options. So I think that's the guarantee that's going to be given to these people and subsidizing these first wars in the first four years I think that's a good solution. Of course, it would be very good if we could start building as we talked to the Committee on Labour and Social Policy today, so that it would be good to start talking about building rental apartments and that would be the right solution. However, rental apartments cannot be built only at the state level. They must be top priority in local self-government units in large cities. Nowhere else is the problem with apartments except big cities. So, do you know that in POS and the law, it's the one that's been made possible for people in villages, in smaller cities to build houses from exactly the same way as buying apartments, to build upgrades or upgrades. So that's a good solution, too. However, as far as rental apartments are concerned, you know, one more thing needs to be asked and one good analysis done. How many apartments do we need? Because let's just say what it is, I'm sorry there's no Mr Bernardic, who talked about this model and the previous one, and he forgot about shouting at both the years of repetition and by Professor. Bežovana continues the city of Zagreb as a new model of housing is being done in Zagreb and what a great thing it will be. It's great so that today we have 600 apartments in Sopnica, 600 apartments, 680 unsold apartments, and there's really nothing there. The city of Zagreb tried to rent these apartments. He leased two and a half euros per square metre. No one wants to rent it, or people hire it, pay in advance two wars because they have to pay in order to be certain and then people come out of those apartments. You have to wonder if it was the right location, was it the way to make so many apartments or not, or should of course, somewhere, and if the state started to interfere to say where you can build it, and where you can't build it would be a total gift to care that the state actually interferes with everything you shouldn't interfere with. So, I think I say it like I said we'll definitely support this bill. I think we should start doing a certain analysis of how many of our apartments we need and how much and how really with the units of local self-government we're going to start building these apartments in rent. And I'd just like to say one more thing about the POS plus program, because you said we probably won't talk about it. What was actually a problem with this law, in this bill, is that the law had one article that said everything will be solved by the program, and the program is not a legal regulation and the program cannot solve it because it has to be written in a law how and how. That's what we should do, make nice and do. The other thing that's still a problem here is that APN should buy all the apartments. APN writes, APN should provide, in fact, the state of Croatia 500 to 700 million kuna so that he can buy those apartments, but it is a big question to whom he would sell them. You should, you should. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. If anyone can read, then me and all of them can read. And there's still one thing there that actually has a wrong assumption, and that false assumption is that the tax, VAT returns 60 to 80 million a year. Do you know how long he's coming back? 14 and a half million kuna. And that's just not enough. There is a club in the Croatian Democratic Community that will support this bill because we think it is better than the one that has been so far. And I hope that really people will take this opportunity and whoever needs an apartment, buy an apartment because you know a gift between 10 and 14000 euros is not to throw away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69774	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69775	Thank you very much. I will correct my colleague Matulović Dropulic, who said that the citizens of this law receive 14,000 euros of gratis in 4 years which, unfortunately, is not true, would be good if it were true. The reason is that in the first four years half of that money goes for interest, that is, the bank. We're giving the bank half of that 14,000 euros. And the other thing, since you keep the high price of the apartment at 1900 euros per square cent instead of the price of the apartment 400, 500 euros less will get another 100 euros of VAT per square square of the apartment. So he'll get back at 60, 70 squares another 7,000 euros. So, citizens don't get anything with this law except that it goes to the banks and what goes into it I'd say part of the investor who can't sell their apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69776	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69777	Thank you very much. So I'm correcting my colleague Dropulic. Namely, there is an incorrect indication of the amount of funds to be provided by APN according to the POS plus model. The APN must provide as much funding as it will be possible to read the POS plus model, which is almost identical to the POS and therefore does not need to be particularly standardized, in particular. And his quality is quite simple. So, as much as he sells. So there's nothing special about it, and all of it, and in ordinary traffic, it's so much about saving on VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69778	The HSS club, Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69779	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. As we all know, the decline in purchasing power of citizens has affected many sectors, as well as housing. During 2009, there was a remarkable stagnation of the sale of apartments, construction works being carried out in a significantly reduced volume, many workers were fired, and such a trend continued in 2010 and 2011. The presented data are more than disturbing, saying over 46% of dwellings were completed in the first three quarters of 2010. It is the same percentage as selling apartments, and as a result, according to some data, more than 10,000 unsold apartments in the Republic of Croatia. The subject-matter of the law seeks to resuscitate suspended housing, thus also encouraging activities in other branches of the economy. It is estimated that an increase in the number of unemployed will be prevented, although the intention is to gradually reduce the number, and to revive the economy with such a bill. It is also known that housing includes activities of other branches, such as wood industry, textile, chemical, metal and other, and as such has a great driving force, but also vice versa if the process takes place in the opposite direction. The existence of housing is a process that reflects on many branches of industry, including small and small craftsmanship, therefore there are more than justifiable reasons for taking serious and strategic concerted steps in this regard, and the first of them in our opinion could be the adoption of this law. The draft law is intended to overcome the adverse situation in housing in such a way as to subsidise interest on citizens' housing loans in the period from the adoption of this law, which we are discussing here today, until 31 December 2012, and for guarantees from the date of adoption of this law until 31 December 2011. The law prescribes the age of the applicant for subsidies, thus determining that it is granted to those citizens who are younger than 45 years of age, that neither of the spouses own an apartment or a house, or spouses can have only one apartment that is sold for the purchase of a larger apartment, because of the need of their own apartment. It is prescribed that the credit subsidy is granted for the purchase of a new apartment in the building, and that the sales value including VAT is not greater than EUR 1,000 in kuna equivalent, and that the subsidies are up to a maximum of EUR 100 000 with a 20-year repayment deadline. Credits of citizens with those commercial banks selected by the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation shall be subsidised after the public collection of tenders has been carried out. So the country pays half the loan rate for 4 years will have buyers of new apartments up to 100,000 euros. In all, it is estimated that the state would grant a loan of 50,000 euros over 4 years, to 70,000 euros, to the state around 9,000 and 800 euros, and for a maximum amount of 100,000 euros, it would give about 13,000 and 960 euros in a four-year period. For this reason, the state budget for this year provides an amount of €28 million. The citizens' credit is subsidized in a way that by means of the state budget, half of the monthly meals of the first 4 years are paid, with interest that cannot be higher than 4.95 effective interest rates per year. The selected business bank shall decide within 8 days on the granting of the loan to the applicant and the final decision on the granting of the subsidised loan shall be made by the APN, which shall notify the bank within 3 days of the date of its adoption. In accordance with Article 15 of this proposal, the time limit for the time limits is not specified by which the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation is obliged to make a decision on the granting or depriving of the subsidy to the creditor, but was only made that, after the decision has been taken, it is necessary to make the same decision within 3 days of the delivery of the selected bank. In our opinion, therefore, this should also be prescribed. This bill will allow customers more favourable conditions for the purchase of a new apartment, as it enables the buyer to predict the cost of the loan for the first 4 years plus two years, given the fixed rate of interest. Thus, the anuity of the loan will remain unchanged. This bill stipulates that the interest payment guarantee approves of the subsidized loans taken by selected business banks and to be taken to other business banks for credits. This model is intended for citizens who will be out of work from the entry into force of this law by the end of this year. So this group of citizens could count on the state to pay them interest on credit for the longest year, because in the first years, nearly two-thirds of the credit is on interest. Subject law will certainly have positive effects on real estate market activities, however, such a model allows investors and banks to continue to place apartments at prices that are more than real in our opinion, because real prices are those formed on the market, without intervention by the executive authority, and in this way prices will, however, remain fixed. The HSS Club will support this bill, but we believe that for the expected effect, this may not be sufficient. We believe that there is a need to adopt a synergy set of measures that will take into account all aspects of the market, the reasons for the current situation, possible solutions that are marketable and sustainable in the long term, and the interests of end-users as well as all the actors of the housing market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69780	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am pleased that Mr. Minister is with us today, and it is commendable to hear also comments and opinions on a legislative proposal bearing the name of the Proposal for a Law on Subsidisation and the State Guarantee of Residential Loans, with the final proposal of the law. And already said here, by the former minister, that this is actually an improvement in the law on the promotion of the sale of apartments, which has sold only 60 of the thousands of planned apartments. This time in this legislative proposal, and the basis of the articles of this law also includes APN, the Real Estate Transport Agency, for which we have been mostly listening and giving it, attaching importance to the purchase of apartments and residential facilities, houses in areas of special state concern. And unfortunately, this job is not finished, so we have a problem and an unresolved situation with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have moved from other republics to the area of special state care, and it is also late in dating so-called. Commissions on the ground and for 2 to 3 years later building housing in areas of special state concern. Here, I have to write these days and a proposal written through the minister to encourage the commission to finally enter those areas because after 2 and 3 years, the demands have been sent, and there is still no answer. But it's not the subject of today's bill, it's the subsidisation and state guarantees of housing loans. It is true that the proposer of this law intended it to be an economic and one social measure. It is true that there have also been certain changes, that it is more whoever takes or purchases the apartment is not obliged to return the loan to the bank and that part of which the state participates at the beginning of the payment. So that's an improvement indeed compared to the suggestions we've heard through the media. And it's true that it's quite certain if someone decides to buy an apartment is a big help to these people. There is, however, but what is the creditworthiness or incompetence of citizens? And in the material itself, so on page 1. it says that one of the main reasons for stagnation is the sale of apartments is the decline in purchasing power of citizens. It's an exact finding. But also a decline in the credit rating capacity of citizens. In addition to 335 thousand unemployed, besides 100 thousand say those who do not receive salaries, and work, in addition to the introduction of the Labour Act and almost all employers, we have allowed employment exclusively for a certain time, so there is uncertainty in this area, so the area of work, very difficult for people to decide on credit, to enter credit. Here, it says up to 100,000 euros here, and they're thinking about how to repay that loan despite what this is a good intention and in good faith, this law that's trying to get to a bigger sale of apartments, as it says here that in 2009 and 2010, 8.5 thousand apartments were built, let's round up, and only sold 4 thousand. And before that, it's still unsold 6 grand. So, a total of 10,000 apartments are on offer. Now, Mr. Minister, you're going to tell me, or should I tell you and agree, that the cost of the apartment in the Republic of Croatia has already been around 700 euros for a number of years. Right? 700 euros in the cost of the apartment. ... Yeah, so I'm talking about the apartment. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now, here is the maximum price of 1900 euros. What is this country actually subsidized and who? Is the price of the apartment from 1900, and they say by 1900, so it could be 1600, so 1100 that it could be in Sesvedi or I don't know in Long Village and 800 I don't know. So, is this price, are prices really real or are they still holding on to whatever they've fallen still too high? The 4.95% interest contracted with banks could increase another 10% after 4 years and then stands at 5.4% as Mrs Dropulic, the former minister, said. Up to 4 years of payment is guaranteed, guarantees that the interest will not increase, but will then increase for the next 4 years, it may increase. And thank God we wouldn't be banks if the commercial banks had such a possibility of a regulation and such a legal option and didn't take advantage of it. And now a man wonders who is being subsidized? Is the survival of such a relatively high price of the apartment, whether banks or citizens, those who buy the apartment. I say, here's how the minister himself said in good faith changed that original law on the promotion of the sale of apartments where there were 200 euros for the purchase of apartments that were in fact mainly used only by banks which the citizens rated by a very, very small number of apartments sold in that way, 60 out of 1,000. I'd like to encourage housing, investment cycle, etc. Investors or how investors like it here, foreign words, developers, even more foreign words. So we have our word investor in building apartments, so we don't have to break language with developers, investors, etc., they also said Mrs. Dropulić, simply trying to pay off contractors, performers in the apartment building. Like in, not to say in the original community. I'll give you two, three apartments, right? And what's in it for us? What's the state got to do with that? And where is that 5% of what Mrs. Dropulic said that she disagreed instead of 80 planned million agreed to 14 million in the state register. It is not always good to express only pessimism and suspicion. So both the HDSSB and we talked personally at the club will support this legislative proposal, support in the hope that the effect or consequences of this legislative proposal will nevertheless help and encourage and bring some positive results. So we're not bad good things we'll always support, and in hope and faith. But I'm saying that it's still questionable given the low purchasing power of the public, for the credit ability of people whether these measures will catch root and be of benefit. I'd like it to be that someone doesn't get me wrong. What's it gonna be like? We'll see Mr. Minister, I say here and we'd like to see success from this bill of yours, so we'll join the acceptance. We agree with your bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69782	Thank you. Minister Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69783	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's just a few remarks relating to the law that I'm going to look back on, and maybe, because of the clarification, I'm going to give a few more information. In fact, I agree that the future of Croatian housing is to solve the construction and use of apartments through apartments built for rent. And this will probably be Croatia's future, given that according to the data, the Croats are the people in Europe who have the most real estate in their possession, and that in time, this desire to be the owner of the apartment will be less and less and that through the House Rental Act or what the law will be called definitely towards the construction of apartments in Croatia that will be set for rent and that it will likely be in the future. At this point, however, apartments that are not on the market are built for sale have been built according to the buyer. That way they're also funded, and we need to be aware of that. I agree, therefore, here I repeat that we, along with the Ministry, will eventually go with the proposal of this and such a law. The other thing I want to say here is there's no gentleman... he said that if this law were to be adopted that his realization would probably begin in a few months, so that the time in which the state gives a guarantee of credit to the buyer would be very short, so that it would not be able to obtain more significant results. That's not true. In fact, if the parliament adopts this law on Friday, we have already prepared two instructions in the ministry as a sublegal act defining how to implement the law itself. I see no reason because there are no additional problems in the APN, or additional activities that precede the implementation of the law. Therefore, the first apartments under this law can go for sale and be bought under this law by April at the latest on 1 May. Thus, for 7 to 8 months, the provision relating to state guarantees for housing loans will also be used for so long. The second thing, Mr Bernardic, left said that this law no longer implies that the construction of an apartment must be done by a licensed company, because it clearly states in the law that the apartment that can be bought under this law must have an act used, and then clearly implies that it was built and that a licensed company participated in its construction. As regards POS plus or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentive Housing. I have to say that I've seen that law since I sat here in the Parliament and discussed it. Both I and then, and now I'm going to say the same thing, it's that I don't see in that law how and how apartments under that law POS-plus can be bought, without a series of sublegal acts, without a series of new regulations that would further prescribe the realisation of such a law. In fact, there were two or three articles in that law that refer to the adoption of a programme that would then implement that law. But I think it's clear to all of us both in the government and in the Parliament that a law that is not fiscally defined that has no means for its implementation, and that means we've heard it's not small, but it's large. It is also excellent to discuss such a law if it is not known what is the financial capacity of the implementation of that law. And if there were no such financial restriction, then this law would be the best in the world, because we could say that an immeasurable, vast, immeasurable number of apartments to finance. We can't say that. We know that our budget is limited, we know what that amount is, and then we're talking about a thousand 900 apartments. Therefore, we cannot talk about some model for which we do not have a clear financial fixed asset and these funds secured in the 2011 budget or in the 2012 and 2013 guidelines. There were words about the law going to the banks on hand and even in public have been many saying that this law goes hand in hand. I think I'm aware that no bank loan they give to the citizens of the bank loses. It's clear to all of us. But the difference between the loan the apartment buyer takes with this law and without this law, the bank eventually gets 6 thousand euros less for the apartment. If we have said that this law will fund about 2,000 apartments, if we say that the average apartment in Croatia is 70,000 euros, then the implementation of this law will give the bank less funds for apartments sold under this law. I think that information speaks to how much this law goes to banks. It is the social system, which is what I said in my introduction primarily for a reason, which is what if the buyer buys an apartment of 100,000 euros under this law at the end instead of 175,000 euros as he returns after 25 years, he will return 20,000 euros less. Of these 20,000 euros, the smaller state will give him 14 and 6 thousand euros, given that the interest has been reduced to 45 in the first 4 years, and another 2 can increase to 10%, so up to 5.45%. The buyer of the apartment if he buys an apartment of 100,000 euros under this law will pay less banks in 25 years, 20,000 euros. What's important, and that's what he said in his introduction, in the first four years, he's going to be able to almost fully equip the apartment, and that for young people who buy the apartment is an extremely large item because when they buy an apartment they usually raise another loan to equip the apartment. In this way we allow him to really take this second loan, not to have to take it, but to actually fully equip the apartment with the funds he receives under this model in the first four years. And another important thing I want to say is that Mrs. Dropulić said exactly, bad projects, and there are such projects in Croatia, I don't want to single them out, I don't want to make anyone a bad ad, but bad projects with no model, no law will become good projects. Those who have done bad projects will have to significantly reduce the price of the apartment because no model will encourage the buyer to buy an apartment where he does not like it, where he does not live, where he does not have a pretty apartment and the extent that he considers necessary to solve one of the most important issues of life, which is solving his own apartment. Therefore, I agree that the law is largely social, but if we succeed through the sale of 1900 apartments and through the model in which we give a guarantee to customers, regardless of which apartment they buy, first, second, third, regardless of how many customers there are years, we encourage and encourage in these years of crisis when work is really easier to lose than in years of economic growth, then I think that through the sale of apartments we will, however, encourage a new cycle of housing, which means encouraging the economy. And that's why I think the law is social, but at the same time, at any rate, the law and one of the economic measures because I repeat, the sale of apartments opens up the possibility of a new cycle of housing. If 10 to 13 thousand newly built apartments in Croatia are not sold, there is no more significant new housing in Croatia. We therefore assess that this law can certainly encourage housing, and this clearly becomes an economic measure. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69784	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69785	I'd like to correct Mr. Secretary's claim that the POS+ law is undernourished. It is precisely the following, and this is that through the debate in the first reading, all the ambiguities, all the comments, all the proposals can be clarified and clarified, but that this could happen at all, it would require a small matter, and this is to open up a debate that the law has been waiting for more than 8 months. And it is good that our proposed POS+ law and this bill have introduced a category and guarantee and good that our proposal, as our POS+ proposal puts it, has gone "public procurement" with banks to finance the whole project. That's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69786	And you have, through the correction of an incorrect quote, confirmed all these good points and these bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69787	Mr. Vice President, I've only listed two key things that are in POS + and my correction has been linked above all to the alleged Mr. Secretary that POS+ has been substantiated and I repeat once more, there is only one small matter to open the debate, not that this law has been waiting for eight months.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69788	Okay. At 18.07 hours, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow with an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69789	We're going to the agenda point we started yesterday and we're moving on to a single debate on the agenda point Final draft of the subsidy law and the state guarantee of housing loans. The first in an individual debate is Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69790	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. As the president said, the continuation of yesterday's topic and talks on the proposal for a subsidy law and the state guarantee of housing loans. This proposal, as we could hear yesterday in the report and in the opening opinion of the minister, but also in the name of clubs, clearly envisioned state guarantees for all housing loans by the end of 2011, and also a model that should be started to sell around 1900 apartments. It is thought clearly of newly built apartments in a way that the state will fund the purchase of them in four years. The state would pay half of the credit rate by subsidising the apartment to the purchaser, and when it turns into a concrete one, for example, one who would raise a loan and who would raise a loan, and that is the maximum that can be clear when it comes to a subsidy of 100,000 euros from the state would receive about 14000 or more specifically 13960 euros of grants. That's usually the maximum amount, but he's not maximum for whoever's raising him. It can raise, therefore, a larger amount but the subsidy refers to up to 100,000 loans. Maybe there's another factor that's partially limiting. It is the price of one metre square to 1900 euros with VAT. This should certainly be seen when it comes to co-financing, i.e. guarantees, a positive side in both categories. On the one hand, and social, and on the other hand, economic. In any case, it should be said that the greatest value a man and a fortune can have is a safe roof over his head. And when someone co-finances 14000 euros, I personally hold that not only inciting, but also more than stimulating, signifying. That's a lot, that's big and that's how it's supposed to be accepted. For a young family, that means a lot. All those who, there was a debate of some who might have gone not so pessimistic. But then in the direction and what if this and what if. So now we're not gonna discuss what if this, if that. If we have a suggestion. So, in any case, it's encouraging and signifying for every young family and just saying it's a social category. Well, the social measure is, but it's not just like that and the social measure. Positively, it should certainly be demonstrated in this that the law as such encourages and citizens who at some point can certainly lose their jobs, so lose their jobs. It is certainly thought of by people who are under 45 years of age and then certainly the state through APN, the Real Transport and Real Estate Agency would repay the credit within one period of 12 months. So it can be less if it's up to finding a job. And that's certainly encouraging. I think that's for sure, is it about those people who can lose their jobs, so not their own fault? The average housing loan should be said, at least according to what is now known in Croatia about 70,000 euros. And according to the funds available in the 2011-2012 budget, so I'm going back to what I said earlier in this model would mean selling 1900 apartments that I mentioned at the outset could encourage and this would be a positive step in any case. It may be significant to mention the same, so in this part it is that the effective interest rate in those four years of the state subsidy should not exceed 4.95% and then should not exceed a little less than 5 and a half percent in the next two years. That this is certainly and realistic, so everything is purposeful and envisaged also shows clearly the budget for which 28 million kuna is foreseen for both of these models in 2011. That this is not only a social measure when it comes to young families and the possibility of subsidies, i.e. guarantees for loans on residential loans, but also an economic measure. It is clear that, therefore, this bill should also help industry, hence the construction industry, in particular the housing of new apartments, and then should clearly encourage the creation of new jobs. And that means that all together together is also a measure that should serve us as one message, a positive one in every sense. So, with slow and gradual shift and step, step forward in terms of exiting the economic crisis. Here would be briefly the reasons why the HDZ Club and I will personally support this law. And we think he's both positive and stimulating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69791	Thank you. We have one replica. Two replicas. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69792	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a colleague you failed to say what I find extremely important to this law, and that's how you repay. In fact, the state will participate in paying off this loan in such a way as to pay half annuity in the first four years. This is extremely important for young families. Because just the moment they come in to buy an apartment in this way half the annuity in the first four years will really mean one favourable situation for them alone and for the possibility of paying off that loan until the family gets on their feet in the right way. And in that sense, this is really encouraging for young families, and of course, as you yourself have noticed here, it is also about the economic dimension of encouraging housing. And the fact that some 1900 apartments will be able to be bought this way by the end of 2012 is enough to say how important this measure is for the economy as well. So, for those who deal in construction. Here's why in this sense we have here, I would say a multiple useful bill on which we should really congratulate the ministry and here the present minister. And I'm sure young families will recognize this as a good chance for themselves, and that's why the economy will profit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69793	Thank you. And a replica, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69794	Thank you, Mr. President. This law does not solve basic problems. In a certain way, the state helps citizens, only the question of how many citizens at this point can buy a 100-square apartment, 50, 40 or 25. So I say there is no solution to the basic problem, and that is between the price of squares of the apartment that is in Croatia ranging from a thousand and 100 in POS's apartment, up to about 3 thousand to 3 thousand 500 euros in certain parts of Zagreb. Even if they're normal citizens, they can't even get in. On the other hand, this problem and this law do not solve the underlying problem, these are high banking interest that goes to the purchase of the apartment, but also on, which were headed towards the construction operation and towards the investors themselves. And I believe that the sale of a thousand, that is, these reliefs will help a certain part of the citizens, but the sale of these thousand 900 apartments itself will not start production, but exclusively sell, because most investors, but also construction operations, have already gone through these high banking interest rates and have gone bankrupt for them. And the question is, who else can run a construction operation?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69795	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69796	Thank you, Mr. President. Obviously, dear colleague Vinkovic or you haven't read the law enough, you're not likely to, I don't think you've read it, then you wouldn't be making ambiguous and contradictory statements. In the end, you say it won't trigger anything, and this is where you say it's encouraged. I mean, let's decide whether he's incentivized or not. So here we say it's encouraging, and it's encouraged by allowing young families to buy the first apartment. It allows him in a way that he will, therefore, be subsidized to the amount of a 100 grand loan and that the state co-finances an esteemed colleague half of the loan rate to the buyer, would therefore pay... That's not a small amount, 14 thousand euros is not a small amount. [[You don't understand.]] You obviously don't understand what it means to a young family today so come into a position at all to have a roof over your head. You obviously don't get it. You haven't studied it properly, because I don't have time right now... The end, but take it and read it, and you will see that it is encouraging. [[You don't understand.]] Encouraged, definitely.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69797	Thank you. We also have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69798	The Rules of Procedure were injured from 1st to the last article. So, since the esteemed colleague listened to my line, I didn't say this wasn't encouraging, I told you about a very small number of families. On the other hand, I just want to convince him that this is not a matter of belief, because this is the Croatian Parliament, if you want to go to Mass you can go to Mass, I don't know what religion you are. I'm a Roman Catholic, so I'm going to the cathedral in Djakova.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69799	I don't see which one it is, first I'll comment on something, then. I do not see which article of the Rules of Procedure is injured, i.e. when the replica is spoken then, these are free interpretations of MPs and can also assess the only correction of an incorrect quote cannot then be said anything. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Matkovic. Boro's on my mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69800	I thank Mr. President, I withdraw, because you explained everything, you told your distinguished colleague Vinkovic what I was going to tell him.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69801	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69802	Thank you very much, esteemed president, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I support the adoption of the Subsidisation Act and the state guarantee of housing loans, and above all by emergency procedure, since it has already put the announcement of this law on the hold of all decisions on the purchase of apartments, especially those who know, and are buying the first apartment, so it has left out practically and slowed down sales. The current Law on Incentives of Sales of Apartments in order to overcome the unfavourable situation in the housing did not give the expected results, but certainly every sold or purchased apartment thus made a few families happy, and it was certainly necessary to support him then as this one today. We are talking today about unsold 10 or even 13 thousand apartments, but the problem is that Croatia still does not have a housing strategy that would define national interests in the area of housing, but also has affected normally both demographic, family policy and fully the meaning of housing policy. The housing policy, whether it be about buying, renting, building, must not only be in the hands of the free market, even less in the hands of individual investors and banks with one single objective of gaining extra profits, the housing must nevertheless remain the social economic and demographic priority of each government. Experts dealing with housing issues in Croatia claim that we still do not have a quality real estate market, because it is impossible to explain why the prices of real estate did not fall after the fall of consumption, especially as it did throughout Europe. Equally, there are also very often complaints that we do not have quality statistics, but I always remind you that when we adopt the latest amendments to the Real Estate Tax Act, we made a commitment to keeping such price statistics, and that it will become public data, which certainly opens the way to quality statistics on housing prices. Of course, anyone who monitors apartments also points to the open-label question of renting apartments, which at a time of very often incomplete control enters the gray zone, is always a matter of tax collection and cutting from the tenants themselves, and the question of how much if we don't have everything under the control of the state at all to collect that tax. Tax relief on renting an apartment has also been lifted, and we know that nearly 110 thousand families are located in rented apartments, which certainly makes it difficult for them to have a difficult social status at the same time. Very little work is done that and what effects would give greater incentive to housing savings. And also very often we do not have an answer to what kind of housing policy is at local level, or somewhere there is, somewhere in certain cities and municipalities there is almost no building and then there is a question of our law that is positive, but how someone will buy an apartment if there is no apartment in the market in its place and it turns out again that very often most often we favour Zagreb itself. And normally that increases migration towards the centers. I think these are all issues that must be addressed by the government, which we must deal with here in Parliament. However, subsidies and guarantees regulated by this law have come well for anyone who first purchases real estate. These are mostly young families, families with children. However, it is a pity that it is a restriction to only 1900 apartments, which is a restriction until the end of 2012. It's only 15% of these apartments that aren't sold today. And I'm afraid it's not going to bring the housing back to quality and secure a job but today almost 30,000 for unemployed construction workers. But on the other hand, since the first real estate purchasers show up only 20% of those, and these 15% will also make a positive contribution to resolving the housing issue. Surely this will not solve the issue of the real estate market, it will certainly not have a significant impact on market prices. There is also a question of the prices of overpriced apartments, which, unfortunately, I said, is due to the unquality market and does not exist. And it is questionable, and the lady, or distinguished colleague Dropulić, also spoke about yesterday, remains the question of the quality and location of certain apartments which then make traffic even more difficult. However, there is certainly a question of responsibility for such as because there is a market and who should control the quality of such apartments on the market. I must say that I will support this law because it is certainly acceptable and interest over 4 years, plus 2 years when it can only grow 10%. It is certainly acceptable and a subsidy by the state because every kuna is welcome, and especially here it is thousands of euros. And since there's a guarantee of what if you lose your job. So, it's good, it's a law to uphold, but I'm afraid it's still not enough to seriously revive construction and housing. I think we need to look more seriously for a full resolution of housing policy with just some of the problems I have listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69803	Thank you. We have replicas. First Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69804	I don't know what Mr. Matkovic is going to say now, not wanting to offend a colleague I suppose she's read this law, also shows certain doubts which I can confirm and which are related to this law, which is that he does not solve the underlying problems. So the basic problem is primarily the high interest rate. And no one is questioning the reduction of this part of interest that goes towards citizens as an extenuating circumstance, but I claim that only this law cannot trigger a construction operation or a new building of apartments. I remind myself that it should only be returned to the model Croatia had from 2000 to 2003 when the issue and the increase of the construction operation and the housing itself was resolved through the encouraging housing where the units of local self-government were included and where the price of the apartment was not 3,500 euros but was between 900 and 1100 euros. So the basic problem here is that many of these properties and these unsold apartments are under the roof of the bank and will exclusively be paid by citizens with these funds by banks of high interest again. With banks if you had a 35 thousand-euro loan in Swiss francs and war, you were 1900 kuna now that war is 2700. And against that, this Parliament has to say there are a lot of high interest rates in the interest of the banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69805	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69806	Dear fellow, that I have read the law and I support the law because the first-purchasing facility is very good and will solve it we said almost 20% of those who first buy real estate. I just warned that it wasn't enough for complete housing and that we still have a lot to do, and it's about first of all, and when we look at POS's apartments that you're talking about that were cheaper. Today, however, people have been repairing these apartments for five years, seven years. Thus, solving the apartment does not solve the quality and all that it is in and gives cheap does not mean that we helped these people. On the contrary, today when these apartments fall out of doors, etc., we have burdened people equally with loans and interest, and they have not received quality. So this law is good, but it's not enough, and that's exactly what we all need to work on together.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69807	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69808	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague Chuhnil with you that every measure that goes from providing the family with a roof over his head is good. However, the measures taken in this regard in recent years do not have any effect. We can see that even the past law we had provided very much, he only sold a few dozen apartments. What's the problem? In the fact that most of our citizens today are creditworthy. So he can't get a loan. That the uncertainty of a job is also a condition for people not to be in charge. That family incomes are low, especially young families with children. So that's all the reasons why people won't be able to take credit. And we don't actually bring other measures into housing policy. Many countries have gone into crisis right now, in the economic crisis especially in the crisis of construction with so-called construction. subsidized rents. So, that it was stimulated entrepreneurs to buy such apartments, to rent them on favourable terms over the longer term. That's why they get incentives, and we're actually starting from that in one period when the apartment's prices were high, many of their assets were invested that weren't related to the apartment building right into the activity, and these measures we're actually just fortifying that it remains the high price of the housing square.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69809	Thank you. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69810	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with you, and it is normal for people's creditworthiness or incompetence to depend on the standard of income, on the situation in our economy. However, I have also said that we should first of all monitor the market and that something is wrong with our market which is a normal market and monitors the basis of supply and demand and price rises or falls prices. There's something going on with us that says there's some kind of bank behind it, investors who unfortunately hold those prices, banks that should be written off today's apartments that they haven't sold, etc. They continue to hold those prices, which means that the market itself does not function, and therefore normally that if the market does not work on the one hand, if the housing stands, we are revolving in a vicious circle of credit incompetence. It is really good, and I also stressed that there is also a need to work on fostering savings, housing savings, above all, to see how and with this law, certain measures should be taken to bring the economy back to life on one hand and to strengthen the creditworthiness of certain people. I mean, it's clear that we're spinning around in a circle, but if this is one of the measures I'm stressing again, which will only help 20% of the families that first buy real estate, surely contribute. And it's up to us to propose laws and try to see how all of this moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69811	Thank you. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69812	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. I've been thinking a little bit whether to support this law or not, because I think it could have been much better and that its effects could have been much better. But since it helps the citizens to some extent, I will support it. The problem is this, the problem is that it primarily helps banks, secondly helps those who built these apartments and who can't sell them, thirdly helps the state because it will make some income through VAT and only fourthly helps the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the young families who will buy these apartments. The effects that could have been much better and that the government’s intentions were primarily to help young families would have been likely to be different in this law. How else to explain that the state is singled out, and here in two years it will set aside 70, 80 million kuna to subsidize, i.e. for the first 4 years, it is likely to go to about 200 million kuna, to subsidize these loans, while not keeping it from trying to force banks and force entrepreneurs to reduce the price of squares of the apartment, rather than allowing them to enter and price squares at 1,000 euros in these conditions. The government was able to determine that only those buyers who make the price of squares per thousand 600 euros could achieve this bill, thereby forcing partially entrepreneurs and banks to reduce the price of the apartment's squares. And they'd probably do it, because the pressure on those apartments would be much higher. But here they decided to protect the banks and these entrepreneurs and leave a high price of squares. A thousand 900 euros exclusively because these apartments are built by bank loans which then have the value of apartments in their balance sheets and would violate their balance sheet if the price of the apartment fell. Unfortunately, that's where the ministry went in favour of the banks. We could have put a thousand 600 euros and probably the price of a square apartment would have fallen. Second thing, we're talking about fixed interest. It has been fixed for 4 years and after that two years must be at 10% of the initial level, so 0.49 can be greater than it was at the beginning. Why wasn't he put on a whole period of 10% difference? This way, after six years, these citizens who are now going to take the loans that we're somehow dragging into this story, no one guarantees that interest will not go to 7.8 or 9%. Well, that's the biggest problem in Croatia where banks lend loans at the beginning without anyone knowing what their price will be to the end. And it could be the state since the investment money subsidized I said in 4 years it might be 200 million kuna and most of that money goes on interest subsidies, because at the initial stage of paying off more interest, so it helps banks sort of get rid of these apartments by selling out of the balance sheet, and other way to find them re-competents on the market that will take their loans. So double aid to the banks. And in that situation, the government had to ask the banks to guarantee a fixed interest rate or at least within the framework of those placed for the first two years after the state subsidized 10%. And that's where I'm going to propose an amendment to delete this sentence and at least two years. Which is why, if we are so sure to join the EU, we have seen the bankers speak, the interest rates will drop when we join the EU. What to do now is to make up for the possibility that one of the banks because the citizens entered into a credit obligation for 20 years to compensate for the price that he possibly missed for the first 4 years or 6 years, for the next 14 years of payment of the loan. That's what we allow them to do. So the citizens are back in the last place. First banks, entrepreneurs, the state for VAT and then citizens. If this were to be considered, citizens would probably at least be provided with a fixed interest rate or a maximum of 10% change. When you look at one more thing, he says you're taking credit for at least 20 years. If this is such a favourable interest rate, maybe some citizens would take a shorter loan. But we're still going in favor of the banks so that the bigger the interest is taken from whoever wants to make the loans. Because I don't know if you and any of you have been in a position to take a loan for 20, 30 years when you take 100,000 euros, you're going to pay the bank once more, so you're going to pay another 200 thousand euros back. If we'd cut to maybe 15 years, maybe that bank profits would have been much less. One more thing that I would say to me is that we're keeping an eye on, of course, it's good to keep an eye on someone if they're out of a job, to guarantee him a year of stand-by and a grant of interest from the state. But that's why we're only introducing it now, and that's why for only the users of this loan that are about to enter into the obligation. We have gentlemen in Croatia 120,000 people who have lost their jobs in the last two years. Did anyone in the government wonder what was wrong with these people, whether they had loans, whether their banks had settled mortgages on loans, whether they could pay off their loan wars and whether the government had already subsidized the business in this way, I'll tell the banks with 200 million kunas sat down with those same banks and tried to arrange an arrangement for all these people. Which is why we haven't taken care of them, and in some way in the last two years, we've left these people hanging. I guarantee that among those 120,000 people there must be 10,000 people who are in trouble to pay off their loans. No one thinks of them, and gentlemen should have thought of them now and a year and a half ago. And much greater concern is whether these people will be able to survive or whether banks and entrepreneurs will sell 1600 or 1900 apartments, while the state collects 200 million kunas of VAT. And this story we're hearing here right now is being helped by citizens with 14,000 euros. I said, most of that money goes to the bank interest, most of that money goes to bad items and bad credits in bank balances because these apartments can't be sold. Most of that money goes to those entrepreneurs who built apartments on that wave in 2008 when the sale went well and now they can't sell them and most of that money will be won immediately in advance. It will receive, if an apartment of 100,000 euros is sold, 22000 euros immediately and gives 14000 euros. Well, it's not a bad job for the state either. Now there's nothing, this is how he's going to get 22,000 euros, and in four years he's going to subsidize banks and citizens of 14000 euros, so there's 9,000 euros on the plus. So don't talk about any God-knows-what help, if you wanted to help you more you could go to a credit rate reduction, or interest rates, the prices of the apartment squares, you could ask the banks to give a fixed interest rate, especially because a lot of these loans will be covered with savings in Croatia. There's no reason for the interest rate to vary. Which is why, if they have savings coverage in Croatia in 120 billion kuna deposits in kuna amount, which is why the rate oscillates. There's no reason. They're not credited to the outside. And there's one more thing I have to say in the end. I don't understand why banks are being paid advance subsidies. So we will now, or the agency will pay up to 12 months in advance, its share of the liabilities to banks. Well, it's really unclear to me if it exists in Croatia and why the state assumes this obligation to pay off its wars in advance to, or half of its liabilities from the total loan to banks. Once again, the benefits of those who are capital donors, who make the biggest incomes in Croatia, and little assistance to Croatian citizens. To Croatian citizens, Croatian citizens who are now going to be helped for 4 years, but we leave them at least 16 years of mercy and mercy that these loans are happening whatever the banks want, and the Croatian state has done nothing about it. Try and I hope that you will accept the two amendments that I will submit, one is to reduce the price of squares that can be taken to a maximum of 1600 euros per metre of square and second amendment, to move this point and for at least two years so that we have a 10% interest all the time in paying off loans from Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69813	Thank you. We have two replicas and one correction. First replica, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69814	The esteemed colleague has well noticed that this is a law which is primarily turned to business banks in the Republic of Croatia, which has been around for many years to interest citizens because these are abnormally high interest rates. On the other hand, taking into account that the interest of current housing loans was between 8 and 10% and if you add more credit processing, etc. You get somewhere up to 12%, and if you take just 10000 euros in credit, you have to pay that bank back between 20,000 euros and 22,000. I'm saying, this is not a basic problem, but the problem is that at this point the banks are already the owners of these apartments. Since investors who made these apartments, since they didn't sell them, and precisely because of high interest rates, they are doing only a large price of the apartment. The real price of the square apartment is between 600 and 1100, from 600 may be in POS if marble stairs are not placed up to 1100, where jacuzzi and marble stairs are placed, and young people do not look for them in Croatia. On the other hand, there is a reply to Mrs. Chuhnil, which was then done and supervised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry if such mistakes were subdued in that apartment. Was there hunting in black bags? But that's a different story. So this law figuratively helps young people, it's one of the pre-election laws that will be here every week at the Parliament's session, we'll help all layers of the population, and we'll live worse and worse. This law is not aimed at encouraging and restoring housing and building operations because with this incentive and sale of already completed apartments, the bank owns these apartments. You can check this out in every unit of local self-government and court where these apartments aren't sold.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69815	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69816	Another problem that the government doesn't even know, just a sentence, is that investors didn't pay VAT and citizens who bought it, too, and apartments can't be registered in the property list.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69817	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69818	Thank you very much. Comrade Vinkovic, we are talking about the state subsidizing 14000 euros in 4 years. Who guarantees Croatian citizens that 16 and 14 years, respectively, will not pay more than 14000 euros for what the state has helped them. Only one percentage point of the credit increase on the rest of the loan will Croatia's citizens, young families, pay more to banks than the state allegedly has helped them here. Who's guaranteeing them? No one guarantees them, and they, like those you spoke of earlier, will be left at the mercy of the banks by the people who took loans in Swiss francs. Whether to be an interest rate of 7, 8.9 will be decided by Croatian banks. And the Croatian state will get out after six years of this story, 4 years of subsidy and 2 years of guarantee that the interest rate will be as normal as it gets out of that story and leave the Croatian citizens in credit for another 16 years. And that's what needs to be changed here. If the intentions of all in this business are fair entrepreneurs, the banks, put the gentlemen that the interest rate can never be higher than 10% of this initial one, so let's see who gets into this story and if the banks really believe in this job and whether they believe that interest rates in two, three or four years will be lower than they are today. If they believe, there's no problem in accepting it and issuing loans under these conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69819	And another replica, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69820	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague here's some service information for you. This is not the only program offered to young people who have no settled housing issue. On the whole of Croatia there are APN programmes, POSs which are precisely young couples with no status resolved, housing issues offer different opportunities and in collaboration with local self-government units. Furthermore, the Ministry of Regional Development in local self-government units that have special state care status also implements material allocation programmes, housing opportunities for people who have no settled housing issue with a special emphasis on young couples who first resolve the housing issue. Of course, those who aren't owners of any other real estate. These are the programs that exist. And about this program that you said that this, so the contract has to last 20 or more years is not true. There's a clause in the early payment contract. If a young couple who buys an apartment finds a better option of paying off, no one will defend the early payment of that loan. However, the business banks offer the institute, the buy-in clause, to make early purchases, or to pay off loans, and thus to reduce and pay-outs that are acceptable today. An acceptable repayment period of more than 20 years is precisely because of the size of the war that people cannot handle shorter repayment deadlines and automatically higher credit payments. I talked to people in the field. It's acceptable for young people, but you should keep in mind what I said. Housing programs exist, the possibility of early repayment of credit exists, and that's what people are prepared for. And this subsidy is very well accepted among young people who have no settled housing issue. Really, why don't you go down amongst the citizens and you'll hear their reactions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69821	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69822	I'm a fellow Huška among citizens all the time and I hear what they're saying. And I'll tell you first if citizens and young families had money for early payments they probably wouldn't have entered into credit obligations. When after half the loan you want to pay off your loan early, it's not worth it because you paid most of the interest. No one's gonna do that. With the bank's fee, you're still at a loss. So don't be fooled that after 10, 12, 13 years, anyone will go into early repayments. He won't. The second thing, to you as the Mayor of Pakrac should be most in the interest of reducing the price of squares under this law, to be smaller to 1600 euros. Because in the second case, the most apartments will go to Zagreb, because most of the loans will be realised at the highest price of 1900 euros because it is the greatest benefit for both banks and entrepreneurs. These interest rates, and the prices of squares will be favored and in Pakrac you will probably not be able to realise a loan under this law. That's what I'm talking about. You would be better off given that the price of squares is lower in Pakrac, that this limit is at 1600 euros because more apartments in Pakrac and other small towns would be competitive and could enter this programme. This is how it's going to be, I think this law is also meant to be favored and tried to sell as many apartments on this market that are still too high and that can't just be paid economically now and the state is helping entrepreneurs and banks to get rid of some of those apartments. And that's why I'm asking you to support the amendment that I'm going to propose, to limit the price of squares to 1600 euros. And that would be the right thing to do. And then small towns would benefit more than others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69823	My colleague, Pakrac has suffered from war and is benefiting from other programmes of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69824	Correction of Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69825	I'm correcting this. You have repeatedly repeated that citizens are in the last place in this law, which is absolutely incorrect. It's because of the young people that this law is being passed. And we heard last night from our minister saying that at the end of the story, and you probably calculated it as a mathematician good that for an apartment of 100,000 euros, the banks will remain short for 6000 euros, and you are constantly imputing to go in favour of the banks. And secondly, you keep mentioning a 1900-euro figure, which is also incorrect because by 1900 euros with paid VAT, which means that in Pakrac apartments can be from 1100, 1200. The question of what exists on the market. You're simply wrong, and all the time you say you'll be in favor of the law and everything you've said is against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69826	Minister Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will look back on a few of the observations mentioned in the debate so far. But before that, I will say something that should also be mentioned when it comes to housing in Croatia. In addition to this law, in addition to these two models established by this law in the Republic, 400 million kuna is invested from the state budget in order to promote housing in Croatia this year. So, in addition to the 28 million kuna that will be provided in the budget for the implementation of this law, other programmes are being implemented, and I will indicate which programmes are allocated from the state budget to 400 million kuna. In what way? Namely, there are three programmes in the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction which are co-financed by housing, and the sale of apartments in Croatia. The first is encouraging housing, the second is the housing programme of the victims of the Homeland War, and the third is the programme of housing care for returnees outside the area of special state care, as a large part of the funds not implemented through this ministry are being provided in the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. So these three programs that I mentioned, so the incentive housing program, the housing care program for the victims of the Homeland War, and the housing programme for the returnees outside the area of special state care, totals 162 million kuna. And if we add 28 million to that, which is provided under this law, that's 190 million kuna. In addition, 210 million kuna is still provided for the subsidisation of housing savings, so a total of 400 million kuna is focused, planned to boost sales, purchase apartments for the conduct of housing policy in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about last year, when we talk about the fall in the purchasing power of Croatian citizens, that's true. According to the Croatian National Bank data published by the Croatian National Bank, however, 3 and a half billion kuna for residential loans were sold or issued in Croatia last year. If, according to our data, we hold that the average residential credit in Croatia, which was given to Croatian citizens last year, is 70,000 euros, then on the basis of this information, not from our ministry, but from the Croatian National Bank, last year, housing loans were issued in Croatia for a total of 5, about 5,000 apartments. Furthermore, I would refer to Mr. Maras as saying that this law practically applies, favours banks and favours the state, and that it at least goes to the benefit of citizens, the buyer of the apartment. That's not true. First the country. The state's position under this law is such that the state will give the purchaser the total amount under the Value Added Tax Act, for example the total amount of the subsidy will be 14 thousand euros. If the total value added tax on the apartment is known to be around 15%, it may be slightly smaller, depending on the value of the land, depending on the value of the infrastructure, so somewhere around 15%, then the country means the total amount that the value added tax will collect, which it will charge when selling the apartments back and donate to a citizen who according to this model decides to buy an apartment. So that's the first thing. Another thing, how much this law goes in favor of banks. In the previous law, which is still in force, which speaks about the price of an apartment of 1,000 and 600 euros, which you are talking about, you have probably noticed, that this price does not mean this VAT, so when you add a square meter of VAT to that value, it is a thousand and 804 euros. So even in the existing law, the price of an apartment that was subsidized by a thousand and 804, not a thousand and 600 as you explain to us here all morning. And if the cost of the apartment was a thousand and 600 euros, as you say, and if you refused to pay a value added tax from it, which is clearly paid by the buyer, then it would be worth such an apartment and for such an apartment the buyer should pay a thousand and 360 euros. That way a thousand and... , that way a very small number of apartments that are now unsold would be able to sell. [[You don't understand.]] The fact is, for a total of around 68 apartments, 78% were sold under the old law in the lower category of prices, about a thousand and 300 euros. So according to the current law, which you say is a thousand and 600 euros, and it's not a thousand and 804, a bunch of apartments more than three-quarters of the apartments were sold at that lower price. And the bank doesn't decide which one's priority, but the buyer decides. Therefore, we now leave with this law the possibility for the buyer to decide whether to buy an apartment of a thousand and 100 euros, whether to buy an apartment of a thousand and 200 euros, I suppose he will buy the apartment that is cheaper, more quality and more acceptable to him. And I don't see why the state, when there's a big complex, a number, a body of unsold apartments in Croatia, would cut the price, we could put a thousand and a hundred, why and 360? We could've put a thousand and a hundred. But then a lot less apartments would be sold than sold under this law that is now in force. Therefore, with the fact that we have increased the amount of apartment by 96 euros in this law, we expect that even more citizens will enter this model, and that we will sell even more apartments, and that as soon as these apartments are sold, we will clearly open up the possibility of new apartments in Croatia. And secondly, why isn't this law in favor of banks? Here's what Mrs. Shuica just said. According to this model, the bank will precisely because in the first 4 years it will lower the interest rate by 2%, because the average, I said it yesterday, and I will now repeat, the average residential credit, i.e. the average interest rate on residential credit in Croatia in the last year was 6.5%. And the effective interest rate, so what the bank charges at the interest rate and other fees, comes to 6.95%. And we came with this model to 4.95%. So the banks are down 2%. And that's why our decision was made and proposed in law, and that's why the banks and they accepted the fact and brought it down, so our fact that it's high interest,... To 4.95, and our counter-service to banks was that because they would receive 6 thousand euros less per loan in 20 years, they dropped interest to 4.95, and two years later they could still increase the maximum of 10%. [[You don't understand.]] In this way, the implementation of this law will give banks a total of 12m euros in thousands and 900 apartments less money than they would have obtained if there were no such law. Thus, the law contributes to banks as much as I believe it will encourage the sale of apartments, but thus, more loans will be paid through more sale of the bank's apartments. In that yes. But on each loan, the bank will get less, if the buyer buys an apartment by this model, 6 thousand euros less will be paid, than the bank would have had such a law and such a model gone. So I think the law is encouraged, it doesn't contribute to banks, it contributes to citizens because it will allow them to buy an apartment according to this model of equipment an apartment at the expense of the state. They're fitting the apartment at the expense of the state. I think it is a great incentive for young Croatian citizens, and that is why I am sure that a large number of citizens will engage in this model. And I would have been happier if there had been more money, but since the budget was passed, the funds were limited to us in the ministry's budget and given the decision that we had frozen the expenditures of the state budget, so we could no longer provide the ministry with the funds. And I'm sure a very fast 950-seat quota in this first model of this law will be spent. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69828	Correction, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69829	Thank you. You said, the minister said the entire amount of state will be returned to the citizens who... These taxes, he forgot that there is still a sales tax on real estate which is also recorded as State income. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm going to tell you 1600 euros I didn't tell you on the basis of the previous law, but on the basis that out of these 10,000 apartments on the market, there must be half the apartments that are at that or cheaper price. So it could be found and we could sell. And under this law I guarantee you that 90% of the apartments you sell will be at a maximum price or 1800 euros. So you're going in favor of keeping the high price squares. As much as I think, in part, the price of squares will rise because of this law because banks will decide to sell at 1800 and entrepreneurs at 1800 and 1900 euros per square. Put on the 1600s you will again sell the safe 1900 apartments as provided for by this law, and will lower the general price of squares on the market. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69830	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69831	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this proposed law will in any case achieve several goals. First, what is very important to me will start selling already built apartments that are on the market, as we have heard so far about 10,000 values of 5.2 billion kuna. The sale of existing apartments will certainly revive the housing market, and what is the elite of construction is important for Croatia's economic progress, it is also important for employment, i.e. the disbursement of the Croatian Employment Service where it is registered, and we have heard that, over 26 thousand unemployed construction workers. The second goal, which is also very important, is to help many citizens, especially those younger, to address one of the most important existential priorities in life, which is a housing issue. The proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will bypass one of the significant obstacles to obtaining a housing loan, which is precisely this one category of people I'm going to talk about are people who have contracts for a certain period of time. Working contracts for a certain time today in Croatia are one of the special problems, but they are a very important argument to banks that often behave, and I will agree with that no matter who said it, that they live outside space and time i.e. they do not live with the problems of the citizens in which they are located, so these citizens are treated with such contracts with credit incompetence. I believe that through this law they will now be helped by the state guarantee, or by the guarantee of the state. Today, unfortunately, almost all jobs are based on a certain time, so unfortunately over 80% of newly concluded work contracts make up exactly what they've concluded for a certain time. And who gets hit most of the time? This often affects just those younger people who have yet to create something for the future. But these contracts are for a certain time one of the great obstacles to life. Therefore, by this very legislative proposal of the Government, as well as the regulation by the Minister in charge of construction matters, I believe that these young people will not discredit you. And what's normal and according to the Labour Act is clearly defined. It is also important to highlight the special benefit that the state provides to these young people at the first moment that is actually the hardest to repay credit. So that moment when a man is in credit and he has to start paying that loan, that's the hardest of times. In addition to the limited interest for the next 6 years, the state will subsidise half of the credit rate over the next 4 years, and this is as we heard somewhere between 14 and 15 thousand euros or around 8 to 9% of the total amount of credit. And what, you'll agree, it's not negligible for people like that. Then, in the event of a job-free stay, the beneficiary of the state's residential loan assumes interest payments for up to a year. These are funds somewhere in the amount of cca two-thirds of the payment rate of the loan and they are irrevocable. Which is also very important. And they're non-refundable, and normally the bank is going to wait with that one-third of the loan that year. It's important to point out, since he's here, he's gone now, colleague Maras mentioned that no credit tax is paid for the first apartment. That's what needs to be known, and that's why we shouldn't fool the public. And once again, you don't pay your colleague Maras if you're looking at real estate taxes for the first apartment. This measure of government not only is social she is also human. And it will be a great help to many citizens. This example, in my view, should also be followed by local and regional self-government units, means cities and counties, and further assist their fellow citizens in addressing housing needs as well as security in paying off loans. And I don't think that we need to go around and skip over to me a very important and significant segment, which is exactly the cities and counties that have to take care of their fellow citizens. Cities and counties must lead a more active policy in addressing housing needs for their citizens. They should be more actively involved in the construction of rental apartments, apartments rented by young people, and paid through rent, or entitled to purchase and purchase such an apartment. Surely it is a better choice for many young people, so it would be a better solution than being a tenant. I believe that this law will help a large number of families to resolve housing issues and eliminate the dilemma whether to stay and be a tenant or to enter into the purchase of this apartment and somewhere at the level of that rent price to pay rent or pay off the loan war and thus solve their elemental life issue, the existential question of what is basic, which is the question of the apartment. The problem of resolving the housing issue is normally the basic problem of every normal community. And it certainly affects every country's demographics. I believe that with these state subsidies, young people and families will be helped to address these housing needs. So if even as I said to this human not only social, but also to the human human initiative to join the county and the cities, then believe me, we wouldn't have to fear for our future, which is unfortunately threatened by greater mortality than the present Natalie. I believe that the support of this law is not disputed either by the left or by the right or by the middle because this law is in the interests of citizens and not by politics. And I have to say that I'm surprised that no matter what we may be, either the opposition or the opposition that there have been no excessive objections to this law other than the entrenched political assumptions that will be, so now we can play with words by morning, simply and in this way dispute or disrespect a good initiative that the government has done which is of normal interest, especially as I will say young people. Finally, with all the support of this proposed law, I believe that, in the near future, I should also adopt a plan for the overall resolution of the housing needs of Croatian citizens and, in this plan, to include far more actively, and here I will re-engage cities and counties and clearly establish their obligations and role in addressing the housing needs of my fellow citizens. Unfortunately, today, many young people, like many families, are hampered by many life plans precisely because they have no settled housing issue, yet this law will make it easier for them to finally resolve as I have said what is fundamental, most existential, and this is the issue of housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69832	Thank you. 5 replicas, first Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69833	A respected colleague should first of all probably know all the possibilities of local self-government that are the heights of the budget in local self-government, especially here I stress the budget in Slavonia. Therefore, all units of local self-government, municipalities and cities are not Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, there are even Osijek can't even count since the number of inhabitants and given the situation in Slavonia does not have a large budget. Local self-government, which I speak as mayor who had a short period of 5.5, months when he bought which councilman was not, local self-government and the city of Djakovo was one of the first in Croatia to enter the POS project simultaneously reduced the municipal contribution, the price of connections to municipal infrastructure. However, in order for the city of the size of Djakova or other cities in Slavonia to subsidise interest and join this law, it is primarily necessary to raise these budgets, especially these units of local self-government in Slavonia through fiscal decentralisation. But if I don't explain it again, the money needs to be returned to where it comes from and primarily distributed more justly that tax money, so that the state doesn't remain 92% and to its local self-government 8%. That ratio could be for the start of 60-40. But I'm saying both sides and that. However, since Mr. Minister is respected here, I am making one proposal that through another package of measures, the state frees investments in local self-government from paying VAT because if you're making a kilometer of disposal you have to pay the VAT. That mileage comes to the apartment, if you make a kilometer of water supply, it also comes to the apartment of the family house, etc. And if you win by the way, just a little bit, Mr. Vice President, if you get an example. The capital support of the million kuna competent ministry, you repay 230 thousand kuna to the state of VAT. So this is my proposal to the ministry that can contribute greatly to this law and allow local self-government to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69834	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69835	Thank you very much. My colleague Vinkovic, you're talking about two things in parallel. Today, we are talking about the Law on Subsidisation and the State Guarantee of Residential Loans. You're talking about the POS project. So we're talking about two parallel things today. Surely it would be and the obligation is yours, not only yours but also all the other mayors to somehow enable infrastructure to function and make it far cheaper than it is today at that price of the apartment, so normally and square of that apartment would be much cheaper. So I simply cannot believe that the city, that there is no unit of local self-government that cannot help and make such decisions, is such measures as to help its fellow citizens to address these housing needs. Normally if he wants to and if he has one quality development plan in it. And logically, it should affect these expensive infrastructures that are highly embedded in the price of apartment by me even unjustly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69836	Second replica, Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with you, colleague Kunst, that a greater contribution from the community or local self-government units is possible. Unlike my colleague Vinkovic, I have a far smaller budget in Đakov, and without a single kuna we can encourage in small cities the development of housing in the following ways. That's what we've done before. Here today, in Pakrac, a building of 25 apartments is built for the same purpose as the returnees of exiles where the city has donated entirely without any kuna building land to the state. So the city donated land to the state. Furthermore, we release such spaces, buildings, municipal contributions. The communal contribution is the direct income of the city administration without any kuna investment you can help people build apartments or production plants which is a practice in my city, where I say is a far smaller budget than with you. Furthermore, these are utility connections, which we also do in case of multiple housing and production facilities. It is a direct incentive for both the economy and the housing. And counterpart Vinkovic says they pay a large VAT, or VAT to build infrastructure. Well, there's no need to pay the VAT on the drain, on the water supply. This is what wise mayors and wise cities do through municipal companies, it is legal and VAT is in that case 0 kuna. Well, here's what I'll do if you need some advice. Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69838	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69839	I believe, Mr. Vice President, that you want to stand in the protection of all MPs. Mr. Kunst was in charge of the debate, and Mr. Huška is replicating me. Do Not Shut Down [[Intruder: Which article is...]] Article 1 to I don't know how many there are. [[Intruder: What article.]] I mean, don't talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69840	Thank you very much. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69841	I don't care what article.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69842	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69843	Take the session properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69844	I'm giving you a heads-up about a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69845	Again?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69846	Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69847	Comrade Kunst, I agree with you that some of the citizens can make this easier to buy, but I don't think it's a good idea that this will help a lot of young people get to the first real estate. The law makes it clear that only the first four years of payment will be subsidized for a loan that cannot last less than 20 years. If we know that mostly variable interest rates are negotiated, then after those four years they can go up pretty much despite some restrictions, if we know that in the first and almost 10 years payments are paid exclusively interest, not some way. Not at all the principal, we come to the fact that a very small number of younger people will be able to take advantage of this relief. And if you look at the whole big picture, which is the abolished tax relief on housing credits for the satisfaction that you abolished last year, which in a much larger amount throughout the duration of the credit payment would be easier to pay people off, this is a significantly worse solution than we had until you lifted the tax relief. Therefore, this can help one part of people, of course, primarily to banks and construction companies, but you can’t and would not be good at creating an impression among people that they will now find something important easier or that most of them will be able to reach their own apartment. Secondly, if we want to solve this problem systematically, we talked about it on several occasions, I would like you as a majority to support or propose regulations that would limit currency clauses or ban them, or that would limit maximum interest, or in some way, as the SDP suggested. That would then be the right and long-term solution, not just this during the first four years as proposed in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69848	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69849	My colleague Lugaric, there is no place for this entrenched political speech. There's no real need, look, you don't even need big brains. If something, which was said, is 20,000 euros cheaper, means whoever buys the apartment will pass 20,000 euros cheaper and then forgive me, so you can't say that such a bill is not worth the attention and normal help of many young people. I think 20,000 euros to these young people who are solving their living issue, who are entering into the purchase of that apartment is a terrible amount of money. It may not be someone's, but these people are the 20,000 euros where we said we 14000 to 15000 euros deny the state, and about 6000 euros is the bank. So it's very important money, and that's why I'm asking you, let's not be hard on that part or politically jealous because that's why the government has offered these young people something good that will make them cheap and let them get cheaper. I don't think there's a need for that, let's be correct, open or offer you something better, and you've had the same opportunity, you could once offer such laws and allow young people, but unfortunately not with such discounts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69850	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is neither engrossing nor jealous, but to Mr Kunst, with these arguments that Mrs Lugaric has already said, he would ask the question in this replica when he talks about the humane measure, about the population measure as an element of this law, then I would ask him what if, after a year, a young man to whom the state guarantees a year of credit if he loses his job and doesn't find him after a year, if he doesn't have a job after a year. This bill does not say anything about it, who will then repay the loans and who will guarantee the payment of loans to those young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69852	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69853	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, unfortunately you do not understand what this law says, and I find it difficult to talk to you about it because you are, in principle, building some assumptions out of your misunderstanding. And what if the tram steps on you, the same thing, the problem is, here yesterday while you were walking towards the president's apartment, the tram could have trampled you out and what we were talking about today. So let's not assume what if the snow starts to fall a little stronger now, so you can't go back home, etc. Please seriously discuss the law, read the text.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69854	Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69855	Here's the thing. By buying an apartment a young family gets, which I welcome, as Mr Kunst said 20,000 euros, it is 150000 kuna, and by abolishing those 12,000 tax returns, the same young family will lose 240,000 kuna in 20 years. Or we give her 20,000 kunas to get them 30,000 kunas. And second Mr. Kunst, when you mention the county. It is difficult for the counties here with fiscal capacity between 3.5 billion and 4 billion kunas to monitor the economy and the social and health and education and crafts and housing. Budget, here's Mr. Boro telling me, the Brod-Posavina County is 130 million kuna, that's 17 million euros, the County of Istria is 250 million kuna or 30 million euros with decentralised funds. So without decentralisation, it's hardly gonna be able to track everything, and with decentralisation, I think the government would have far fewer problems. On the other hand, the county does not have a single centimeter of agricultural, forest or construction land, cities do. Surely everyone will also help to provide housing for their citizens, if nothing else is built by building infrastructure, by giving that building land in other ways and by financial means. But if this country were to be decentralised, I say this government would also have far fewer problems. And secondly, to win, this young family, 20,000 euros in 20 years, we take 30 thousand euros from that family, which will say that they are at a loss of 10,000 euros. And just don't tell me he just doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69856	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69857	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, this is an account with no innkeepers, so it's hard to talk about. But I have to tell you, given that you are one of the wealthier counties, it would be good for you to, by some example, say how much you, like the city of Pula or the county, have helped people solve housing needs in Istria. That would be very interesting to hear. You have heard an example of his colleagues in Pakarac, so say which countries you gave up and let apartments be built there and to solve the problem of the people in Istria who, unfortunately, are also calling out for that living space. Not you, normally I'm talking about people who live normally, who get along, etc. To survive that would certainly mean a lot to make it easier for them to buy an apartment, etc. Unfortunately, except for the loose stories without cover, I haven't heard anything from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69858	And I hear you're using a Zagreb apartment past the rules and past the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69859	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Please! Here you go, Mr. Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69860	Mr. Vice President, I raised a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure during more of Mr. Kunst's speech that I don't know if it's a threatening speech, since I need to watch my back from the tram or what. So he injured the Rules of Procedure under Article 209 and actually announced some sort of as someone said here and at your Presidency a hate speech. Well, if that's a warning, then I'll keep an eye on the tram, Mr. Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69861	Where are you going to make such conclusions? How can you go? Well, you permanently, Mr. Grubishic, permanently when someone disagrees with your opinion in the replica, then use the Institute and abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69862	I was in the replica talking about apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69863	Oh, come on! Well, you can't do that on a regular basis. That doesn't make sense for a long time ago. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am, in my debate, not going to stick to the assessment of the situation in the apartment, the problem of selling built apartments in the building. But I have to say, at the time of the expansion of housing construction, the builders often built without examining the market, without the contracted construction, construction for the famous buyer, and I believe that it will now be later, that it will change, or that it will take care of who they are building these apartments for. As far as this proposal for a law on subsidisation and state guarantee of housing loans is concerned, I am convinced that by adopting this law, it will primarily help citizens of the young Republic of Croatia to reach their first residential space. I am convinced that this will be achieved through the subsidisation of the loan and by providing a guarantee of payment of interest on housing loans, and the funds as we have heard will be provided in the state budget. The first measure, therefore, is approved, so only for the purchase of a new apartment in a building built on the basis of a building act. There is an act to use a building whose sales price with value added tax is therefore not greater than 1900 euros per metre of a square net useful area of the apartment. So she can be lower. Of course, it depends on who buys the apartment. And so, this apartment is bought directly from investors, performers. So it's bought by people under the age of 45. Therefore, the credit that a citizen takes from a selected business bank is subsidized by funds from the Republic of Croatia's budget in such a way as to pay the amount of half of the loan payment rate in the first four years of its payment. As a result, the grant of the credit user does not return the funds spent. And we heard that for such a credit to the buyer, the owner of the country's apartment, so if it is 100000 euros, then in some way leaves out, i.e. less than 14000 euros, which is about 14% of the value of the loan, and 8% of the total amount that the buyer returns. What is also important to point out is that the interest is at least somewhere around 2% and that effective interest rate is less than the market rate, the average market effective interest rate. And we should really remind that an effective interest rate is based on the total costs paid by the client to the bank at the time of the withdrawal and during the repayment of the credit. So it's about regular interest and all the fees. And again here I'm saying that this interest rate can be lower. And I honestly believe that banks will also offer to be lower. But I'm also saying she's about 2% lower than the current interest rate. What I also want to point out is that the proposal for a law lays down the conditions and the way in which subsidies are granted, and the content and procedure of the conclusion of a grant agreement. It is also important that the law lays down a way to monitor the implementation of the contract by the commercial bank which has granted the loan. But also by the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, which is due to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, submits once a year a report on the implementation of this law. The second measure is giving, therefore, a guarantee of payment of interest under this Act by the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is bound by this guarantee, so instead of the credit user who is left without a job, it is not possible to repay a loan to the business bank to pay interest for due loan payments for a maximum year from the date of inability to pay off the loan. Therefore, what we have already heard is the total amount of credit, i.e. part of the interest payment, which is guaranteed by the Republic of Croatia cannot be greater than EUR 100000, with the amount of interest to which the guarantee is granted cannot be greater than 4.95% of the total amount of the loan, or part of the loan. What I would also like to point out is that both in the first measure and in the provision of guarantees that the conditions, the way and extent of the guarantee approval are prescribed, but which is particularly important for the time limits in which certain transactions with the users of the commercial banks and the APN are to be carried out. The deadlines are extremely important, because it guarantees that credit-and-guarantee operations should take place quickly without undue delay, and the government's goal is to make the procedure as effective as possible, that there is no duplication of documents to resolve it faster. Here's what I said, and here's what I'm going to support with the pleasure of passing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69865	Thank you. Six replicas. First Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69866	Helping citizens, pure math. Let's take a 100 thousand-euro loan, taken for 20 years. According to this model, a citizen will pay 20,000 euros less, 14 thousand will be given to him by the state, 6 thousand euros from the bank, but these 6 thousand euros from the bank worth only 6 years, 4 years of guarantee, two years of starting. If the loan is 20 years old, the bank still has 14 years left to raise interest rates and return all of its 6,000 euros she has given. The model you abolished, which is a model of relief, the citizen was getting 12 thousand kuna a year, that's for a 20-year-old loan of 240 thousand kuna, that's 35 thousand euros. So he's a citizen by changing your model, you took 35,000 euros from him, and now you're potentially giving him 20. By abolishing the privilege and by introducing this law, you have damaged every citizen who buys this apartment by 15 thousand euros. It's pure math. In addition to that, four years have been helped, and by tax relief, it has been 20 years, 30 years, for how long he took the loan. You've abolished a more favourable model for citizens, introduced more unfavourable, and you say it's better for people. For them, this is worse, for anyone who took the loan, exactly 15 thousand euros in poorer terms, 15 thousand euros compared to the Racan government model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69867	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69868	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well Mr. Stazic really doesn't understand this issue, he doesn't understand this bill. Help is for citizens, help is for citizens who will pay half the war for four years. Tell who's not interested? Who's not in the best interest? As far as effective interest rates are concerned, 4.95%. You need to work at the bank and see that it's just regular, so it's total regular and they're all fees. What's next? It's still the same as all the other citizens, and now that someone's taking a loan, they're signing a contract, right, but what's going on? That interest rate will probably just fall. Why? Because in your contract, the main one is going to say that it's kind of a variable interest rate, but given the capital that banks have an interest rate drop. And what you were saying about the $12,000 tax relief, so you need to know how it was calculated. It's not 12 grand for you to get the money, it's shrinking your tax base by 12 grand. So you need to know what you're talking about, and what you're saying is really not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69869	Second replica, Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69870	Look, pals, if we've already said we're gonna back this bill, there's really no need to try to make sure that your pants are patched up better than your new pants. We're talking, here's colleague Kunst starting to compare, so let me put it on track and this is what my colleague Stazic was talking about. Please, the tax relief system that we introduced for everyone, universally they buy the first apartment also meant for those who buy the old apartment, who restore their house, who buy new apartment etc. We introduced POS's system that may have had its faults, but it led to a real construction boom, in the Croatian construction industry there were 200,000 people working, 30,000 apartments being placed on the market annually. Not to talk about what was now. From 240 thousand to the estimated 100,000 euros in the subsidy loan was indeed 30,000 euros. Now it is offered, 14 thousand is now offered, because we don't know what will happen to those 6 thousand that the bank, which the bank, after 4 years of raising interest and in 14 years, can very well repay, because we have an example that the loans signed a few years ago on 5% interest, will rise to 7% again and Mrs. Majdenic is difficult to assume I don't know on the basis of which parameters you can assume that the interest will fall. This optimism has no real basis at least in what is now being done, what is happening in Croatia. So don't try to show this model better than it is. We support him, we say, it's better than nothing, but it's worse than what we had. European social policy knows the social model, this tax subsidy as the best form of social support for citizens. Why did you throw it out, not just in this area, but elsewhere, that remains a question. I think it's very harmful in the long term, and neither will the state benefit from it nor will it have a budget and citizens will have the least.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69871	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69872	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad you said you'd support that law, so I'm sure that law stands, that it will help the citizens. As for POS's apartments, you know how it is, you said it would be about 900 euros later, it grew, depending on the units of local self-government, so this is a law that will help young people solve their housing issues, whatever you talk about. Ask anyone who wants to buy an apartment now, if that's okay with him. And as for those tax reliefs, tax reliefs were used in that way by those who really didn't need it, so here's the MPs. If you bought an apartment, you could have... You cut that tax base, and I don't think it's in the citizens' best interest, let's just pay. [[You don't understand.]] If you're buying, pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69873	Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69874	There's no doubt, clearly, that this law should be supported, it weighs 1.4 billion kuna, it's somewhere at this point 0.4% of gross social product. But what should I do? Gentlemen, MPs should finance the construction of personal homes. With this law, we help builders earn money, and in personal construction, the simple effect would be much greater, and you don't have the profits that are being shed, for example. Speculators. More would then be employed by craftsmen, builders, plumbers, electricians, and I think Croatia would develop more evenly. This law dominates construction in large cities, in some ways neglecting rural environments, and should also be considered. On the other hand, a 20-year term, an apartment of 100,000 euros, an interest rate of 4.95%. The year is due back, let's let this go as far as the country's 10,000 euros, times 7.4 that's 74 thousand kuna. Who in this country, if there are two average salaries in the family, can return about 70 and some thousand kunas to a union cart of 7 thousand kunas for an apartment. I mean, that must have a reception, so husband and wife, of at least 15 thousand kuna. And I don't think there's much of them. Although someone will honor me that even last year, if I'm not mistaken for housing by banks, it's about 3.5 to 4 billion kunas that sold about 4.5 to 5,000 apartments somewhere. However, I believe that we have had more favourable models, and what should especially be stimulated and designed to build personal homes because this would make the entire Republic more evenly developed mainly rural environments. Because in one village in Slavonia or Istria no one will buy an apartment because he doesn't need it, but he would like to build a house. Let's get Mr. Secretary of State and come up with a model like that. And we will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69875	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What I'm trying to say about this is, is that what we need to find and develop more evenly, and then I'm going to say exactly that this is, this is exactly the law because what is it about? The point is that in this way, the creditworthiness of each borrower has been improved. It's been improved for that reason, so by this alone payment these four years from this half-war, but you need to read it so a little bit and you'll understand... Well, then you'll know that in that way that it's being singled out into the banks that it's going to be asked not to be 30% more real estate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, anyone who borrows, who has smaller funds, will be able to obtain credit more easily. And that's what it takes. Because if you worked in banks then you'd often hear I can pay for it, but my credit rating is what the bank is asking me to do makes it impossible to get a loan. This way reduces what the bank is going to look for. And therefore, it will be easier for a man to obtain credit. And that's an interest, to make it easier to get credit. And that's how I say that in what I'd say, in those parts where there might be a questionable credit ability, where the price of real estate is easier to get to this apartment. And settle the housing issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69877	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. In fact, Mrs. Majdenic, when the arguments, when math proves something, then it's not believed, it will be, it won't be. And you said in your debate that banks would lower interest. When did this faith come true? I guess the appeals of Croatian prime ministers and that former and current prime minister. So, the bank's appeal not to yell at the citizens. And none of that. Furthermore, I ask you again because you also pointed out in your speech that there is a guarantee for whoever loses his job for a year that the state will finance the return obligation. What if that citizen doesn't get a job after a year? Then who's going to guarantee the payment of his loan? Dad, mom, dida, grandma? And there's something else I wanted to tell you. It is interesting or even suspicious why citizens who would like to build an individual residential building, their own house, are being discriminated against. Dad's paying the salary, so he doesn't have to buy. But it's not here. New building of apartments is exclusively funded. What about those young people who won't buy an apartment in new construction but are buying an old apartment? Stan, what would the people say, is used and cannot get credit for that apartment, or these benefits. What about them? So, a certain discrimination, but whether it's intended or not, I'm going to say it in final terms when I speak for the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69879	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, this one whether he's mean or not, either on purpose or on purpose, but I'd like to say he needs to know the laws. ... That's right, we need to know the laws, and we need to know that POS can build houses. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, building on the POS should also encourage this, and as far as discrimination is concerned, this law solves in this way what we've all been saying is that there are a lot of built apartments, that they should be sold. When it's sold, those builders will have money for new investments. That's the goal. Therefore, start the real estate market and surely this will be done. And as for mathematics, then it should be said that the effective interest rate of 4.95 is certainly less than 7.6. So it's math. I don't have to convince anyone. It's a set of numbers. But I'm saying you need to know the laws, everything we've brought here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69881	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69882	So without any ill intentions I'll support the law since it's better than nothing. That law would be good if we had those tax breaks too. And tax reliefs, no matter what you do, must be equal for everyone because the Constitution guarantees equality for everyone. On the other hand, I don't work at the bank and I haven't worked, but I know if I take a loan of 10,000 euros and I get a 10% interest that I won't pay back at the end of the 11 thousand euros, but I'll pay 22. So that's another one of the things that will affect the fulfillment of this. The other thing is that I believe that the sale of 1900 apartments under one or any other conditions will not trigger housing and construction operations because almost 60% of the operatives are in bankruptcy and there are still 14,000 unsold apartments left. And who are we going to run it for? On the other hand, I'm going back to the local self-government unit and I'm going to ask them to engage more actively. I don't mind that, however, ladies and gentlemen, we must understand that special units of local self-government in Slavonia cannot monitor what rich local self-government units do. So with a proposal to release investment in the municipal infrastructure of VAT payment, which would contribute to the development of municipal infrastructure, but also to the construction of apartments, I suggest that this Parliament decide that all Slavonia and Baranja are units of special state concern with all benefits. Then the resurrection, the Christmas Christmas girl, would not be 200 kuna in Djakova, but would be 1000 kuna. And that this Parliament adopts the Law on fiscal decentralisation where income tax will be 100% to local self-government, property tax 100% to the local self-government unit, and profit tax to be shared by 33% to the state – 33% to regional self-government and 33% to the county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69883	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69884	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Winkovic said equality to everyone by the Constitution, and I think we're here in the Parliament agreeing with that, and I don't think there's any problem here. As far as tax breaks are concerned, then we have to say that the IRS always says that it has to be fair, the tax has to be paid by the one who has the most to pay. And that's exactly the point. In tax breaks, it's everyone who's had a higher salary, so let's just say, you bought an apartment would be a bigger deduction, and that's not in our best interest. You pay again. And those who had small incomes, that tax relief really meant nothing to them. Therefore, the tax law must be fair to one who has more than one person and pays. That's what I think I'm gonna have to stand for. As far as fiscal decentralisation is concerned, then Mr. Vinkovic needs to know how someone says that you say who's rich, then it's understandable to me, and fiscal decentralisation means that if we're going to decentralize him like that then that he pays for health care, for educators, you're giving up as much money in the city of Djakov, but don't expect any help from the state. Thus, fiscal decentralisation corresponds to all those less developed. It stands, you need to know that, so if the local self-government unit is developed, I still understand that's what it's looking for. But these less resources I don't think you have to... for that you don't have to be sure to stand up for it and I think you're doing something that's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69885	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69886	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69887	Well, please, so what is it now?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69888	Please restore time. May I? Thank you. [[/Intruder: You can do this a long time ago.]] Mrs. Majdenic, you said in your debate that the state is giving 14 thousand and the banks 6 thousand euros in those 4 years. I don't know why you calculated those 6,000 euros as if it was a cemented interest rate now on the market. The interest rate is a market category that may be higher or lower. They don't give banks anything, and you're going to allow them this law to catch up on the 6 thousand euros and these 14,000 euros of state if they just raise or one or two percentage points on the interest that is defined here in the law. If you really have a good will to provide citizens with certain security over a period of 20 years, I suggest you support the amendment that I have submitted and which says that it cannot be an interest rate higher than 10% but an initial whole period of 20 years of a minimum credit period.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69889	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69890	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So this is an estimate based on these parameters, so interest rates 4.95 effective interest rates. But what you were here so you left, we talked about VAT, you said he was 22%, we were calculating, so I'll tell you right away that you didn't calculate that VAT is not 22% because it's on the price. It brings out 15% because at the cost of land for construction, VAT is not paid according to when you speak and when you talk about numbers then you need to know that too. And I say again, I truly believe, and I have reason to believe, because when I came to the bank to work, they were '95 to you. the years were housing loans, interest rates for housing loans 11%. And for non-intentional, it was 22%. The tendency to permanently reduce interest rates will certainly allow EU entry to be even lower. So I think my optimism is, not optimism, but that I honestly believe it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69891	Thank you. Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Before I say a few words on this subject, I would ask that there be no replica, because we are in a hurry to attend a session of the Committee on Tourism, and in addition to the fact that we started this new session yesterday, these two days, here we are at the second item of the agenda, and so expression in our work is commendable. I would start with one claim of scientific evidence, there is a whole table view that can be attached to those who are interested, Croatia can be praised if it is to praise that we are in the world among the richest of the housing fund, that throughout the world Croatian citizens have the most private housing space. Economists will actually say it's bad from another point of view, because if we're talking about the property of a housing fund, then we need to respect that fact and know it. Who cares about it, and how did it come to be in such a position? It's hard to say, but that's historically how it happened. I agree with my colleague Vidic, who was talking about having new pants, we'd say underpants down but we're thinking pants, certainly better than patched up. But as a man goes through a lot of things in his life, and he has to take care of it when it was better, when it was worse, I remember wearing my brother's pants, growing up with my brother's pants, and I remember using my books at school four years old, but that's no reason to go back to those stories, but we want to go forward. In that sense, I would like to say that I feel like reading this law certainly at least one of the attempts to solve the problem that is extremely important and necessary in a better way. What you think is that this bill is worse than someone else, which was of course I am giving you the right for you and all the others who have commented, but in one general assessment that this law improves housing issues and resolving housing problems in this House and that you yourself think that this bill is worth raising your hand for. It seems to me that the debates are infested with certain things that do not have so much to do with the law itself and that the attempt to impose the law on the benefit of the builders and the harm of the potential customers or the benefit of the bankers and their own profits seem to me a little overly strained because this law was nevertheless passed with the aim of allowing to get to the apartment while at the same time helping those who are building apartments. Deviations regarding the building of apartments, possible deviations and the guessing of developers or what Dropulić was telling, that's a different story, and this should not have anything to do with the law itself. Furthermore, I am surprised at the many people who talk here from the point of view of the economy, and at the time we swear to the market economy, I am talking about the fact that the banks are forcing certain, very specific interest rates, to commit to certain prices on the market that should be because we feel that this agreed economy has not been working for some time, although it has always been good for the state to find the instruments that this market economy could function as much in favour of those who live on that market. I would point out something else that is never really discussed, especially in the context of the debate on the market economy and the solution to housing problems, which is if the price depends on the relationship of supply and demand. I can now, for example, mention someone who would like to come to an apartment worth 1200 euros, of course with all these blessings and incentives given by this law, let them come to Nerezces and buy. Not only that, we'll find them a job in Nereziste. I'm telling you, you can buy an apartment cheaper in Knin too. I don't know if there's enough work to be done, but I'm sure it's worth a lot cheaper in Knin's apartment than it is in Zagreb. I am also sure that in Komiža it costs an apartment much cheaper than it costs in Zagreb. So the issue of housing prices and housing problems is one stone of one mosaic of an entire economy, namely the state of mind and relations in one country, in one state and in its arrangement. Keep going. And those who have prepared this law, this bill has not fallen from Mars, have not fallen from the sky. They read the suggestions and know the proposals that work in the countries of the world, not only Europe but the whole world. Such experiences exist, however, sometimes good experiences in some countries depend on a general picture in these countries. So I can't simply translate from one country, from one civilization, from one social arrangement to another. Furthermore, traveling around the world and I've visited continents and seen cases, you have countries where real wealth represents only one wall with which you can crucify one tend to possibly be hidden from the rain, not to mention that all your property is in one pocket and that you sleep on grass like... in India or so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can also tell you that one of the key topics, the habitats of the United Nations project, is currently dealing with this problem and highlight the problem of major attacks on cities, a major inflow into cities and creating circumstances that are significantly worse than where they came from, but looking for bread and not looking for an apartment. Therefore, the issue of a solution to the housing problem and the issue of a solution to the price of the housing square also depends on many things. In the circumstances in which we live today, in the circumstances in which we are today, I think this bill helps to consider how the housing problem can be resolved in a way that makes it easier for those who need to get to the apartment, to facilitate those who built or built the apartment and sell it, but not to profit from it because the habitat is just talking about the balance of economy, nature and social standard. And banks we obviously cannot influence, but with which we can develop dialogue and try to achieve in this dialogue what is proposed by this bill. In any case, because of something that may not be satisfactorily solved as we wish we should not throw away what is well solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69893	Thank you. Seven replicas. Just seven. First, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69894	Well, here, I wanted to refer Mr. Roshin to what was said to be a lot of discussion about guessing builders and banks, which is not a fact. The fact is that it is primarily a wish, if we say in quotes, that it is suitable for young people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to either reach the first apartment or to increase the square and reach the larger apartment. That's true. However, I would like to say that I have some experience with building, say, POS's apartments and about applying young people to these competitions. I can always report to you 4 to 5 times more people who want an apartment than they finally got because they had a problem with credit incompetence or ability, and that's why this law goes in this direction to help them subsidize interest, to help with possible job loss, etc. I'll give you an example of Dubrovnik. The square in Dubrovnik cost up to a few months ago an average of 3600 euros, now that the crisis has dropped by 500 euros, 3100 euros. I ask you on the market which young Dubrovnikians will return from their studies in Zagreb at that price. However, in the area it is certain to reduce prices and that this law will be possible in the areas of the town of Mokosica, Župa Dubrovačka, etc. Buy an apartment at a cheap price. The key item in the price of squares of the apartment is the price of land that doesn't actually exist, when we talk completely about Dubrovnik. I think this is too serious a subject, Mr. Roshin, that I certainly support this bill and I think it is welcome, but the subject is too serious to discuss the housing in Croatia on this point. So I agree with you that this has something to do with, that it is a socio-economic and sociological topic and of course I will support this bill because it is both economic and social.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69895	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69896	Here, in response to your replica, I would like to confirm that this is a very serious topic. And not only do I believe but I do know that there are people in the opposition order who are able to talk very seriously about this issue, very professionally talk, discuss in order to solve the problem. Unfortunately, in the assembly, serious debates are largely turned into political stands of other interests and those of other topics, as I have often said, which deserve attention, remain in the background of some political messages. However, you have also touched, or apostrophe, also one very important thing about guessing builders. Look, if you say you're hitting the builder who built the apartment and you're looking at it in the context of a negative phenomenon, then at the same time you're saying that you're against the one who built it, who was concrete, who put the tiles on, and so on. It's all jobs, it's all pay. We can talk about the super profit of whoever organized the building. Is beyond what is normal that his participation in realisation is worth it because he makes extra profits. But a key problem that proves that the price in Nerežišci can be cheaper than the cost of building in Zagreb is the price of land.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69897	Representative Damir Cain, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69898	Just one piece of information. I don't know if you know, the Serbian prosecution dropped the prosecution of Purda, Janjic and Maslova. A small day for Purda, Janjic, Maslova but great for the Serbian judiciary. The president of the state, the government, the protesters were all right that evidence collected torture could not be evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69899	Oh, my God! Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69900	In response to the replica, I can say that my colleague Caine rarely spoke about what was the subject of the debate, so this doesn't surprise me and I can comment on this but beyond this debate to him. But I'd like to tell him, then take advantage of the opportunity to respond to something he had previously said in his replica, which is affirmed by the family apartment higher than the collective housing as it is said. What? A family house compared to an apartment in some big building. I'd like to tell you that it's a leak past time, a time to the 1990s when the state wanted to have control and give apartments and you were on the list of working councils waiting for your turn to come. Thanks to the fact that you couldn't get in line to solve your housing issue, what little money you had bought blockers, cements and with your friends over the weekend made an unfairly built house, one to the other so that today you couldn't pass a road. For the sake of this time, the family residence was considered to be evidence of a negative capitalist approach to solving the housing problem. I agree with you that certain environments should develop their dwellings by family housing and that collective housing of large volumes of objects is not appropriate. I'm going to mention Nereziste again because now there's a debate down on the board about Neregisce, so it's kind of an incentive for me to tell you. So I support you in terms of category, but that category depends on where it is. You can't solve an apartment alone in one big skyscraper. Right? But we shouldn't even solve our family house on our own, because you need to have a license to build and pay all the taxes you need to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69901	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69902	My colleague Roshin's wrinkled. If there's an alternative to being underpants, having your underpants patched up, I'm for patched underpants. It's better than being without your underwear. That's what I'm talking about. But the best are new underpants. Please! We talked here a year and a half ago. Minister Dropulic offered a model that I then claimed would not make any solution for citizens buying apartments. It's been confirmed that's the case. 68 apartments were sold according to that model and according to the program, not 10,000 as planned. I mean this. In the light of this law, it honestly writes and do not deny it, that this is primarily a relief that goes to developers and banks, and then helps citizens to get to the apartment. That's the first one. Fair enough, fair enough. But I'm warning you of something I warned you about a year ago. We only need Dr. Zista when we need to hit the citizens. If this didn't seem to make you believe that those prices of 3 and a half thousand in Dubrovnik would fall to 2 and a half thousand. Let's let the market run its course. We're going to help 1900 or 1,000 people, but we're going to help 10,000 people who won't be able to buy an apartment because it's going to cost them too much damage, and we're not playing market anymore, or we're both for socialism and for state intervention when it comes to helping developers and banks. It's a story and it's the result of this. We need to be consistent, we need to be consistent when we talk and consistently implement or market policy when it comes to developers and banks, but also when it comes to citizens. Or intervene with the state. But then it is another concept, another model and a story about the social housing and social housing strategy that Croatia is not 20 years old. It's a real story we should start both in the government and in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69903	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69904	First something from religion, or belief. Listen, I don't believe it, I just don't believe that the intensity of whoever was making the law was to make someone wrong or do something wrong. What was the intensity to do well, so it failed to do good or not as well as it should. But to try to make a mistake, to do someone harm, I just can't believe it. Secondly, I didn't see that page in this law. Maybe I'll let you miss seeing that I was careless. But I haven't seen those developers, you understand. I didn't at least see it as a category. Am I wrong? Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm wrong. And I told you a little while ago. That entrepreneur who's building a housing fund of any kind he's hiring. The only problem is whether he is making unfairly out of law and unfairly extra profits or not. But every giantper pays someone, whether it's called a developer, an entrepreneur, an organizer, or whatever you want. I'm against someone making a big profit and having a table and a ficus. Do you understand me? But it's all expensive that even the one that works when it builds and the one that goes relatively well when it buys, and the bank is there service that works the way it can work and I can't influence it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69905	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69906	Comrade Roshin, of course we said we'd support this law and it's good, but I think we should talk about categories and what's true here. In one part of your discussion, you have almost accused us of creating the wrong picture and that this law should primarily help young people. Let me quote to you what it says in the explanation of what the government wrote. So, I quote: "The proposed law wants first of all to start selling existing apartments, selling not buying, and starting a cycle of building new apartments for the purpose of preserving existing and creating new jobs, thus helping the construction industry and a large number of small entrepreneurs and craftsmen associated with it. This is a good goal, they need help, but first plan is to help builders. The government admits that, and when we claim that it is so, that only in the second plan are citizens, we simply do not politicize but we say what it is, which is not opposed by the government either. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to discuss two weeks ago several of these laws and taxes concerning housing, i.e. sales, or purchases of apartments. I wish we in the Parliament could talk once from the position, primarily from the position of the citizens. Not from the position of builders, not from the position of banks, but from the position of citizens. How to help them get to real estate as cheaply as possible. As a SDP, we suggested taxing too high to say interest on housing loans. We've introduced tax reliefs that you've abolished. We spoke here, and it seems to me that there was an agreement in this, that we should consider abolishing foreign exchange clauses, that in some way regulations are made in a way that there are no variable interest rates that will bring a lot of people, after the end of these six years, into a rather inspicuous situation. There have been proposals here to introduce also a tax on unsold real estate, that investors go in a way more responsibly into their institutions, and not that we have to solve their more or less justified business plans afterwards. So there are some solutions, it would be good if you too were to advocate that we are finally here to debate primarily from the position of citizens, and to protect the interests and needs of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69907	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69908	First of all, I think, at least as far as I'm concerned in this assembly, I always talk to the position of protection of citizens, because I represent citizens. Secondly, I have never personally accused the opposition of political initiatives, but I have always debated exclusively professionally, and I have not accused you of anything on this occasion, because you represent an opposition, but I have pointed out that there are also people who know this problem, and in which case, often, one of you has told me to agree with you, but at the club, we have agreed that we will vote differently. So it's political... which should not be particularly apostrophe. [[You don't understand.]] On the other hand, you can't talk about the speech about the builders being wrong, because if the builders couldn't build cheaper, the citizens couldn't buy cheaper. So if the builder is gone and they're not building, there's nothing to buy. Therefore, it is a causal link between the one who builds and the one who buys. And don't tell me that you're going to build and place plates without getting paid for it, because everyone who builds wants to get money for what it is. I'm talking about extra profits that can be controlled or not. In that sense, and your story of interest. Of course, it's interesting to everyone that the interest is as low and as good as possible, but I've had this problem fiscally centralized, decentralisationd, these words that are used here, I'm not an economist, but I know that I've been introducing my economy for 44 years, 45 years in marriage, and it's not bad for now, and God forbid it lasts like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69909	And Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69910	You mentioned Nerežiste on the island of Brac several times, and invited citizens to buy apartments on the island of Brac. You well know, or in the Nerds, you well know that almost every other alley is completely abandoned, old houses staring empty. Despite this, however, the municipal government, led by the chief, has made an entire enchantment of dwellings above the Neregisce, and these apartments are empty. So we are witnessing an irrational spending of taxpayers' money, you are now inviting citizens all over Croatia to buy these apartments at Nerezist. I think you'll have little help with this, and that's what employment opportunities really have, but this particular power in Nerežić has been holding back for years a private entrepreneur, who employs people, pays them neatly, and that these workers have not just objected and raised almost one small riot, which is that image through television and visited all of Croatia, only then did the government give in and gave the particular permits that the company needed, or its owner. And he would continue to expand his work, and he still has brakes in certain ministries. So much for that entrepreneurship. And as for the law itself, there has already been a lot of talk here that this law does not give one particular certainty to our citizens, which will be after that period, you want to re-deliver them to the banking sector, to their incompetence, to then raise interest, because citizens have to plan, the citizen cannot live without elemental security. That's not how a country can live. Therefore, this whole legislative proposal will be more favourable to the builders themselves, not to the citizens, and most to the banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69911	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69912	Ingrid, I know that Nerezcess is an incentive, a parliamentary representative who sits next to Mrs. Zgrebec has to do with the Neregiscess, and the others, so I can understand that it was, felt like an incentive and a provocation and some knowledge. But we also know that it is an integral part of the political rhetoric of demagogy, and therefore it is not against it and that when you simply detect it like that. I won't talk about Berica, don't drag me by my tongue, because if you start talking about it, this isn't the place to talk about it, with all the consequences that can come from it. Furthermore, Nerežsce is also recognized in Croatia. ... Now I'm talking, I'm gonna say... [[You don't understand.]] In some, a recent job in Nerežist was as if 900 people had been employed in Split in proportion to the Nerežisti. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] As far as the spells are concerned, I designed it. That's the POS building that I won through APN, through the competition, I was glad I could do it in Nerzist, and everyone who saw it didn't metaphorically say that you said "chard," but they said it was a very appropriate architecture with its volume and shape in that space, and I don't give up. ... It's not empty, only three POS apartments failed to sell, but it was built in the POS category. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And as far as empty houses are concerned, I'll bring you a buyer to Nerzic and it won't be empty, just don't ask... money. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69913	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69914	Thank you very much. Mr. Roshin, in your debate, I would like this law to stimulate what you have pointed out, and some others, to put themselves in a more favourable position in an area where the prices of real estate are lower. We, unfortunately here, because the law so determines, do not subsidise the undeveloped parts of Croatia, but where in some way the first request will come. And if we were, it was the most developed part of Croatia, Zagreb, where the largest offer of apartments is. And instead of, and I said at the beginning, of those 10,000 unsold apartments, at least 5,000 and maybe more go into the price category up to 1600 euros per metre square. If we had put that border in the law, and we still have a chance to put it, I hope you will support it as an agent, because I have given such an amendment, we will encourage a reduction in the price of squares and in these more developed parts of Croatia, and we will put it in a more favourable position for this part of which you are talking about and this Chardak in Nerežišće. So... Okay, figurative Chardac, and in reality, a lovely house. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So please support this amendment because I think we will do good for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69915	It's Chardak, not on Nerd, not on Earth. Replication response [[Intruder: Intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69916	It confuses me, it doesn't give me, it takes my time. I'd like you to have a colleague, Maras. Wait, wait, let me say two letters, let me go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My friend Maras, we don't have a fight, or I won't start playing cards now. But let me tell you, this law is trying to resuscitate a certain state, and it doesn't create anything new. What I was talking about first, and you have now continued on the same topic whether it is in Zagreb or in Knin, Kistanja, Komiza, Brela, Basta or not. This is a question of the strategy of development of the Republic of Croatia in general within which solving housing problems is only one part. So that all of this could happen outside of Zagreb, that this story would be more relevant for places outside Zagreb, some other things should be resolved before that. And I'm going back to the habitat again because it's my theme now. Congress will be in Zadar, etc. That's exactly what Habitat's into. And if you didn't know the balanced development of Sustaiable Development that lipo sounds like in the English that we're all talking about and we're all talking about, he actually just got the definition at the 10th month last year. And that means, first of all, development, and sustainable inflow. So we're talking about a development that shouldn't ruin what it's developing at, which is nature, but it has to take care of people's social standards. Do you understand me? So again, I point out that I need an entrepreneur, but I need to control his extra profits so that they don't go to harm the citizens that my colleague was talking about earlier. Okay? Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69917	There's more, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69918	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's a replicating colleague of Roshin, I'm going to try to correct the two thesis that the SDP keeps going through and scares young people who are interested in implementing this program. First, it's about real estate tax. It should be said publicly that the real estate tax for the purchase of property in the area of special state care is 0% for all those who have residence in the PPDS area. That real estate tax for the first apartment is not paid for buying the first apartment. There is no sales tax on real estate for buying the first apartment. And secondly, the the thesis that banks will increase interest in some future years is written, Mr. Minister said, I think he repeated it twice, the increase in interest can only be 10% of the existing interest for the entire time the loan is paid, no more. Only 10% can increase interest and there are certain protections for the purchasers of the apartments in this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69919	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69920	This is the last one, isn't it? Is this the last one, no one else? This, the subject of real estate tax is as important and interesting as all taxes, but the state has to live on something and live on taxes. I wish taxes weren't supposed to be paid and the state had enough money to give us all what we need. Some countries and some people have gotten used to it, and let's say Greece is one of the countries of example, to relief, to incentives, to giving. It's easy for you to live if someone else is working for you. I'm using an opportunity to say, I don't know if people you know are usual to say today, so what kind of parents can't feed their children until 50? What's that? So we need to make sure that parents are richer so that they can feed their children. It's on the subject of tax. And on the subject of banks, what if banks don't accept, if no bank wants to give at 5%, or 4.95? Of course the whole subject fell then. But talking to some banks felt that banks would start their own money and the mechanism, as it says fiscally, are they ready for such relatively low interest even though in Europe interest is lower, in many countries. That is why it is important to us as soon as possible to enter Europe so that we may use some rules of play. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That interest would be lower. That's why I'm saying, 'cause those interest rates out there are so much lower. If we make that profit, we'll see. I hope we will and very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69921	And Madam Representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69922	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is after my colleague Roshin greatly responded to the replicas of one of my own kind of recapitulation of this broad debate today. So, right now on the Croatian real estate market there are about 10,000 unsold apartments, whether they are finished, or those that are in construction. And in these apartments, what is extremely important, one huge financial capital is mobilized – 5 billion kuna. It is clear that this capital is terribly lacking in the Croatian economy in general, and especially in the current economic crisis when construction has less and less work and construction companies fail on a daily basis, and with them there are related crafts. The best illustration of these negative trends is the fact that 105,000 workers were employed in construction in 2009, of which every 5 were just in the apartment building. And at the end of 2010, more than 26 thousand construction workers ended up at the Employment Service. And that trend, unfortunately, continues. And now the government is beginning to think that local self-government should define the needs of housing squares, not that we have the hyper-production of dwellings, that we are building without any criteria, without analysing how real market needs are and even more without analysing how real the possibilities of buying these apartments are. In this law, the Government is one side of the plan to help overcome the unfavourable situation of housing through the stabilising of this huge one I will say to the building dictionary of cemented capital, and at the same time it wants to help citizens who want to resolve their most important issue, the issue of roof over head. However, it should be said that this is also seen in the debate, so by conceiving this law, the government was thinking of itself, as in this large number of unsold apartments, a frozen and significant potential revenue from the state budget is being made. In fact, it is expected that the sale of the affected flats would cassate over the collected VAT of about 200 million kuna, which means that the state would do a good job because these VAT revenues from the sale of apartments would exceed even those budgets that the state is obliged to engage in for the purposes of implementing this law. The essence of this legislative proposal is actually two groups of measures. The first measures are the subsidisation of loans for the purchase of the first apartment or the purchase of a larger apartment that would be implemented by 2012, and the second group are measures which the state actually guarantees to the business banks to pay interest on housing loans that will not be able to pay the citizens themselves because they have lost their jobs or no income. This measure would only be implemented by the end of 2011. The subsidisation of the loan implies that the purchaser of the apartment would only pay half of the monthly loan rate in the first 4 years, while the obligation to pay the other half would be taken over by the State or on behalf of the APM. In addition, the interest rate that effectively should be lower by 1.2% in the first 4 years, and here I am now using the opportunity to highlight that 1.2%-to-point because the bill states 1.2% which is not the same. Therefore, it is not the same percentage point and percentage, and this should indeed be taken into account when the text of the legislative proposal is drawn up. Therefore, an effective interest rate should be at a maximum of 4.95% but only in the first 4 years of repayment, and then it could increase to a maximum of 10% within at least 2 years. After that, of course, it will be accounted for at the commercial banking rate. And there's actually this moment after these six years, there's started to be a lot of uncertainty and problems started. It is true that the subsidy and the restricted interest rates would make housing loans more favourable in the first 4 years than they would have been under commercial banking conditions. However, the real question is whether the bank's continued payments through increased interest will still not compensate, even taking more than what they "gifted" for the first 4 years. Namely, where's the guarantee they won't take it? Personally, I just can't believe the banks would give anything in this country. So, the banks will give up a little bit first, and then they'll take a lot more. Why didn't the government agree on this bill with banks for these loans, so loans that serve to solve the strategic life problem of buying an apartment is more favourable interest for the entire repayment period, not just for the first 4 years or for the first 6 years. Why is it just a crisis measure, not a lasting measure? And one wonders why general interest on housing loans in Croatia is much more than in countries in the environment where the parent banks come from? This is especially in a situation where banks have an excessive surplus of liquid capital, while at the same time the economy is looming in hyperindividuality and citizens are struggling with loans, especially with those credits that are calculated in Swiss. And the most important reason why banks should show far more sensitivity to citizens lies in the fact that they are actually alimony of their bank deposits from saving citizens, banks earning extra or high profits by operating money precisely for Croatian citizens. So we can say that this model of selling apartments under the auspices of the state is just another fire measure that can't be of great benefit to the economy, it can't even be of great benefit to the construction industry itself, since housing only accounts for 17% of total construction, and construction is actually literally on its knees. The question is how much this law will help young people themselves, if these people don't have a job and they don't have a permanent income, because the banks know it all very well, they don't lend to anyone who isn't employed and who doesn't have a permanent income. What this law will surely pass will be an additional infusion to the exhausted state budget, and most certainly, as always, will profit banks by charging high interest and doing so without any risk, because the entire risk of banks through this law has actually taken over for these credit ratings states. This is therefore to conclude a primary social measure in favour of Croatian citizens up to 45 years of age. The truth is something improved compared to last year's government proposal on which only 60 apartments were sold, so with the introduction of a social measure which is unfortunately limited only to buying a new apartment. We actually abolished a great social measure last year that was a much wider character and meant a lot more to young people who were solving their housing issue. It is a tax relief for the purchase of an apartment or house or the right to return taxes from the title of paid interest on a residential loan. And in short of this relief, young people have been taken far more from this law than they will be given through this law, and Col. Stazic has supported it perfectly with mathematics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69923	Replica, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69924	You're wondering, colleague Jelash, why the state subsidizes interest only for the first 4 years of credit, why it doesn't do it all the time of the loan. So because the state through or through the government through this proposal, the law thinks about itself rather than citizens. This law serves to eventually sell apartments that have not been sold on the market and if sold, the state will charge VAT. It is estimated that this could happen in those four years if citizens fall for or accept this risk of taking loans under this law. What will happen after that 4 years, or after 6 years, when that interest can grow to a maximum of 10%. The citizens will be exposed to the mercy of the banks. If the banks increase the interest rate to that extent that they can no longer pay credit rates, or they will have to sell such a purchased apartment, or they will take the bank because they will have to collect their credit and will want to charge it. Therefore, if it were really to help citizens, then the subsidy interest would be the whole time the loan was paid as it was in the tax relief system. This measure does not serve the citizens, it serves the government itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69925	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69926	Yes, colleague Stazic, I just pointed out that in my debate. So, after 6 years of paying off loans, there's going to be a lot of uncertainty, and if they're this kind of economic movement and if there's this kind of unemployment, young people are actually going to get into a situation where they can't pay off the loan, and then they're going to have to sell that apartment, so they're going to be at the beginning again, they're going to have nothing. So, to really help young people solve housing problems, what the government of Ivica Racan did should be left behind, so leave a tax relief to solve housing problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69927	Five minutes of discussion. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69928	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Yeah, I already said, we're going to vote for this law because it's better and not good enough law than no law. The interest, as suggested here, is relatively favourable, so it is subsidized. From the state budget. However, at times when the state owes at an interest rate of 6.75% now on the US money market, this rate of 4.95% means below 5% said a favourable or relatively favourable interest. But the question is something else. Why does the state owe at a rate of 6.7 or 6.75%, because our credit rating fell on BBB right to bankruptcy. Now if we add political instability, recession, the growth of the unemployed, I'm afraid that maybe we could question and sell these first 1900 apartments. But now watch where the basic problem is. If Croatia is in debt by 6.75% whether the interest in 4 years of business banks will be 4.95%, it is clear that it will not and it must be for anyone who enters this credit arrangement clearly. The interest in 4 years will be, it must be greater than 6.75% and I'm afraid it can cause a far greater impact on customers than the debt-indebted citizens today are affected by this Swiss growth by more than 20% or 30% in the year. Of course, and that's what I'm trying to say, these apartments are not favourable. If we speak 1900 euros in Article 8, it can clearly be smaller, Article 9 speaks about a loan to 100 thousand euros, a 20-year repayment period, interest rate 4.95% per year plus annuity, that's 10,000 euros. 10 thousand euros times 7.4 is 74,000 kuna, or you must after the state no longer subsidizes monthly, provided that interest remains below 5% of about 6,000 kuna. Who can take and repay this loan, say, for an apartment of 55m2 in the City of Zagreb. It's clear that these legal solutions please bankers, everyone mentions Raiffeisen Bank first and some apartment sellers, that I don't list them. I once again ask the question why don't we try to please the construction of these family houses, why don't we come up with a model for that. I agree with everything Mr. Roshin had just replicated to me, but I think we should just start or come up with a project like that. 1900 euros, so I'll tell you gentlemen, it's almost a thief, and we're gonna have to make them break prices, and how if we just find a billion and 500 million kuna, and we just give people to build their own family homes, which would encourage both crafts and crafts and this and that, and not just encourage these speculators. Who's gonna take credit? I claim they will be taken mainly by citizens, residents of large cities, not by those who live in small towns or villages. And these people would build, but they just won't get a chance to give themselves a roof over his head. How many people took out the loans we heard last year from the minister, between 3.5 billion and 4 billion kuna, that's 4.5 thousand apartments. Now we've abolished the tax return, I think it's a mistake, people have been able to recover those 12,000 kunas a year since 2011. Six thousand kuna, from next year 0 kuna. I don't think that's fair because we're introducing incentives to new customers, and we're punishing the old ones in one word. 1900 euros gentlemen for one apartment in Zagreb, so this is more than the price in one Vienna, in one Poreč, prices go to Dubrovnik, Opatija over 3000 euros as if we live in Manhattan. Only in the City of Zagreb we have 28600 unsold apartments but let's let it all go now, I can see it's shining. If this is the job behind this law, out of 1.4 billion kuna or 0.4% of gross social product, it is clear that the law should be supported, but once again I appeal to the government to try to offer a model for private construction of family housing or I don't know what I'm going to call them units or houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69929	Thank you. Two corrections. Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's not exactly what Mr. Cain said. The interest will be higher after four years. It is true that the interest will certainly be lower, because at this rate of 4.95% calculated and the risk of capital because we are not in the European Union. Once we enter the European Union, what is calculated at that rate will be less and certain that the interest rate will go down. But it's not good to end up here in the final word, you end up showing up that way, because that's how you tell citizens especially those younger people not to buy, that they're not getting into it, and that's really not good no matter what you say you're going to support it. You can't say you'll support it, and you're saying it like this. ... It won't be bigger. [[I can't hear you.]] Then you're scaring people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69931	Ms. Representative Marina Matulović Dropulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69932	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, on several occasions, it has already been said that it makes it impossible to build family homes and upgrades or upgrades needed. Based on the amendment and addition of the POS Act when you, Mr. MP, were in this House and passed that law, it is possible to build family houses and upgrade and build houses under the conditions of POS. And if another unit of local self-government such as the city of Zadar gave to these people, then such construction would certainly cost between 500 and 600 euros per metre square. Thus, it can be done today and there is no reason to tell people that it is impossible to build family homes. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69933	And the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, has five minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69934	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is this proposal for a law on subsidisation of housing loans for which we are all agreed and the debate has been extended beyond Dynasty, so here are just two, three final words about it and what I said yesterday and there have been some considerations. Namely, I consulted certain contractors who said they could come to Zagreb freely and build apartments of 600 euros per square. If all of them are to say imposing, municipal fees, designing by square, land, land price and up to 100 euros per square, then all of this is summed up to talk about the performance price of the apartment about 800 euros per square. We're making this bill and it says the price of a 1900-euro square, per square metre, let's be more specific. Today in Lanište is the price of an apartment of 1500 euros per square. Those whose windows are facing Remetec can also get cheaper than 1500 euros per square metre. Who's the developer or the investor or the investor? A fax company with one desk, one table and one phone and a lot of cell phones. Did they contract the construction of residential buildings and discredit themselves allegedly through banks? They did. Did they pay interest to the banks? They did. And now that you're taking the apartment, you've got interest again. So, I don't even know who did, and I don't know who has any more interest and credit at the bank. But it's very interesting something else. How come none of those developer companies failed, and apartments aren't sold. It's a very interesting question, and actually, where is this money that built entire blocks of housing, say, in Lannister. Is that money of suspicious origin, so while this was pre-resion time, it invested to fertilize, wash, etc. No, banks didn't sit on giants. It's very interesting and symptomatic, and as far as the population and citizens are concerned, we said they were weaker assets than they were before, we said it was a weak credit rating, so that's what this offer looks like to that fox offer and vice versa about fox and birth. Of course I won't deny that the HDSSB club, and in the style of that better thing than anything Winkovic's or that better and patched-up pants than none, the HDSSB club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69935	Thank you. The final review of Minister Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69936	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I thank the support given to this law on behalf of the club. I believe that after tomorrow's vote, the law will be passed, and after that, the basis of the instructions that legally impose the obligation on the minister to pass them is a very quickly realised model of encouraging the purchase of apartments in the Republic of Croatia. But I will still look back at a few remarks that I think need to be explained, which are not entirely or entirely accurate, which are expressed, shown in the debate itself. Namely, why we gave a minimum 20-year term for loans. Mostly because such a provision could not have happened to buy an apartment in six years, on a six-year-old loan. It's practically a buyer who's quite financially potent if I can say so and then at least to us in the ministry and the government there seems to be no reason, there's no need to help. Because whoever's willing to pay back such a high war within six years for a 100000-euro loan probably shouldn't need any of this kind of social measure that stems from this law. Not true in his speech, Mr Davorko Vidovic said more than 30,000 apartments were sold in POS. That's not true. In total, around 5000 apartments were sold to POS in the period 2000 to 2003. 900 and six, seven apartments, and up to now in 2003 about 4150 apartments. Therefore, the total of POS was sold around 5100 apartments. When we talk about cheap, about the need to co-finance cheap apartments, which Mr Grubisic was talking about at the moment, then I want to say the next thing I know, that last year the ministry issued a public call for the sale of apartments, whose price is about 960 euros per metre square, and I have to say that there were no interested in selling, to buy such apartments. What do I mean? That bad projects can't be encouraged by any model, and that you and no buyer model who doesn't want to buy an apartment because of the location, for some other reasons that make this apartment cheap you can't encourage. So this model of the law is about really helping, encouraging buyer, citizen of the Republic of Croatia who has, who is under 45 years of age, to really go into the purchase of the apartment where he wants it, by limiting the above amount of credit of 100,000 euros and a total, maximum destination... Apartment up to a thousand and 900 euros. [[You don't understand.]] As for the amendments made by Mr Maras, who says that the lack or lack of this law is that we failed to agree a fixed rate with the banks throughout the duration of the 4.95 loan, I can only answer him that after 6 years, that interest is cheaper, it is lower, it is smaller. If we enter, and I believe that we will be in the European Union by then, it can be very easy to make the interest rate less than 4.95 or 5.45 and then defining fixed interest practically damage the buyer on one side. On the other hand, I would like to invite him, let him negotiate with the bank so that, with any bank in the Republic of Croatia, for a period of 25 years, he can define, determine, realise, find the possibility that any business bank in Croatia will agree with any buyer, future owner of a fixed interest apartment within 20 or 25 years. As far as tax breaks are concerned, the tax relief of 12 thousand does not amount to the amount the taxpayer in the Republic of Croatia obtains from the State when he makes tax returns, but rather reduces his tax base, and then, in the amount of his income, his income, in the amount of his personal deductions, is defined as the total amount that reduces his tax base, the income tax at the end of the year. Therefore, it depends on the salary, depending on a number of other factors, how much the tax relief on the apartment will eventually be. It could be two thousand, it could be three, it could be four, it could be five thousand, but anyway, I don't think there's any of those citizens who could use a whole 12 thousand kuna tax relief at the end of the year. Ms. Marina Matulović Dropulić said that the POS programme envisions funding for the construction of family houses, but the lack of this model, but it is not possible to resolve it in another way, is the fact that the loan obtained under this POS model must be paid by the bank to the company registered to carry out the construction activities. In order not to practically encourage work on black, the amount invested in the construction of a family home must be paid to a construction company authorised to carry out the work of building apartments. Therefore, this was the reason why certain citizens who built buildings with their work cannot and do not want to enter the system, because they themselves are engaged in construction, in their spare time building their own house and then this kind of building of family facilities is not possible to include in this model that I was just talking about. Therefore, there is a solution for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who want to build their own residential facilities, to enter the POS model, and then clearly with the company that is building on their land, they build this family house, and for that, clearly, that building costs them more cheaply than when they buy apartments or when they buy family houses that have already been built. Here, that's what I'm, here's the end of the story. A lot more what I said in my introduction. The model is both economical and social, and I believe that all those who have decided to buy the apartment and meet the conditions of this law will use this model, because in any case it is highly encouraged for Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69937	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69938	Thank you very much. I didn't say that the interest rate must be fixed for 25 years, but I said to just extend this period that you put on two years for the whole period, and that's 10% more than the currently proposed interest rate. And secondly, if you're already asking me to negotiate with the banks it's a little unusual for a member of the government to ask the opposition agent yes, but here I'll help you if you're interested. I just spoke to a banker, and he tells me that this first amendment that I proposed a thousand 600 euros would be a good proposal, because they know through their Real estate agency that there are at least 50% of the apartments that are not sold in that price class. So here's the suggestion and accept at least the first proposal I suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69939	Thank you very much. I didn't say that the interest rate must be fixed for 25 years, but I said to just extend this period that you put on two years for the whole period, and that's 10% more than the currently proposed interest rate. And secondly, if you're already asking me to negotiate with the banks it's a little unusual for a member of the government to ask the opposition agent yes, but here I'll help you if you're interested. I just spoke to a banker, and he tells me that this first amendment that I proposed a thousand 600 euros would be a good proposal, because they know through their Real estate agency that there are at least 50% of the apartments that are not sold in that price class. So here's the suggestion and accept at least the first proposal I suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69940	Second, the Final Proposal of the Subsidisation Act and the State Guarantee of Residential Credits. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 717. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, representative Ana Lovrin and representative Gordan Maras. State Secretary Alexander Russo, I would like to make a statement on the proposed amendments to the Legislative Committee on Articles 14, 16, 24, 32 and 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69941	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment tabled by the Committee on Legislatives and Amendments of Ms. Anne Lovrin is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69942	Thank you. They become an integral part of the bill. And this is Mrs. Anne Lovrin, that's fine. So we still have Mr. Gordan Maras on Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69943	We do not accept that amendment on Article 8. The law, if I can explain freely, limits the maximum price of a thousand euros, which is actually 16% higher than the average price of an apartment in the Republic of Croatia, which is a thousand 636 euros, and assumes that most customers will buy apartments on the real estate market at an average price or lower, rather than at the highest expected price. Also, with a price of 900 euros, it is possible to subsidise part of citizens' housing loans in the Adriatic region, where the average prices of apartments are higher than the average in the Republic of Croatia, amounting to a thousand 942 euros, which would make the proposal impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69944	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69945	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposal for an amendment is such that it goes in order to lower the price of the square of the apartment in Croatia, since it is 10 thousand apartments that are on the market very probably more than 5 thousand apartments would be at a price of 600 euros or less, as Mr. Secretary of State said, and the prices that will now be realised would probably be slightly less than 900 euros, but by putting a limit of 1,000 euros or less, and if they did demand at one point 2,3 thousand apartments that would go under these credit conditions would generally affect the price of the apartment and would not compromise the implementation of this law. And that's where my amendment followed that lead, and I'm asking you to back it up, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69946	Thank you. Who is it? Please raise your hands. Who is for this amendment to Article 8, which the Government does not accept, raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment to Article 11 of the same agent, Mr Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69947	Nor do we accept this amendment, because the talks with the business banks agreed on this model of lending of housing loans, which is in the wake of the financial opportunities of this programme. It is also a trend in the amount of interest on housing loans in the past few years, and it is to assume that it will continue to fall especially when we join the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69948	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69949	So if this is true what you're saying only then we should accept this amendment because there's no fear that the interest will be greater than you initially determined. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and here the state in law has only secured itself for the period when it is guaranteed and when it is subsidized. After a period of 4, or 6 years for the next 14 or more years, the citizens are left to themselves and have no guarantee that the interest will be as it has been before than it can be 6, 7 or more percent. And that's bad, the state should have asked the banks to guarantee, if possible, a fixed interest rate, unless it's limited by 10% more than it's starting. I ask you again to adopt this amendment because both my first amendment and this amendment are in favour of Croatian citizens, not for the benefit of Croatian banks and those who sell apartments. Unfortunately, if we do not do so, it is possible that this entire positive effect from the first 4 or 5 or 6 years Croatian citizens will pay for the next period of credit payment. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-02-0.u69950	Thank you. Who's in favor of this amendment, please raise your hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final proposal of the Subsidisation Act and the state guarantee of housing loans. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 105 votes for, 4 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. The word can be requested during the session, and the session has not yet begun. Then I'll start with the session first, so I can get a word in, you know, the Rules of Procedure. So we're going to continue the work of the 22nd session, and we're going to continue, of course, with the agenda we started yesterday, where the debate was held by the clubs. Now we'll move on to an individual debate. And here's Mr. Zoran Milanovic, before we move to the agenda. Here you go.
