ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74850	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia 2011 The State Geodetic Administration submitted the above Report on Jobs and Spends on the construction of the mentioned technical documentation for the 2011 census. According to the Law, the State Geodetic Authority prepared this technical documentation, provided documentation to the State Bureau of Statistics, the County List Commissions and the List Committee of the City of Zagreb, and teaching directly not the content of this report were involved in the work of the County Listing Commissions. The report on the work carried out and spent on the production of technical documentation gives an overview of the work done and the opportunity is pointed out that the whole work was done over an extremely short period of time. It should also be pointed out that given the fact that the census takes place every 10 years, it is a question of maintaining the awareness of the data needed for the technical documentation, which is basically the data of the register of spatial units, enhanced by graphic displays and lists produced according to the specific requirement and standards of the State Statistics Office. They represent a key invoice in the preparation of documentation and the implementation of the list itself. It should be borne in mind that 10 years is also a great distance of time and that in recent times there have been major changes in information communication technologies, which should also be taken into account and adapted to the fact. Therefore, for a 2011 list of only 5 months, the full content of the existing register of spatial units has been fully updated and new digital technical documentation has been developed on the basis of new topographic maps... and, in particular, ortho photo frames in scale 1:5000 with drawing objects that are associated with home numbers centroids. In order to achieve this, 714 officials of the state geodetic administration and the city office for the cadastre and geodetic affairs of the city of Zagreb were appointed to the Committee for the Preparation of Technical Documentation for the List and they communicated in their work with all units of local self-government to update existing decisions or deliver decisions on the appointments of streets and squares. On the ground, the employees checked all the facilities, joined or assigned home numbers, and once again checked the technical documentation itself. The work that has been carried out in the field audit period, outside of working hours, on Saturdays and Sundays, are the figures on the changes made in the register of spatial units, which are the result of this particular job. As you have seen in the report the number of urban districts and the wheel has increased by 35, the number of settlements by 3, the number of cadastrian municipalities by 14, the number of statistical circles by 37, the number of lists by 987, the number of streets and squares that are newly registered is 1872, and the number of registered buildings with home numbers has increased by 100 thousand 155 marks, meaning from a million 468 thousand to a million 568 thousand. Overall, catastrian offices have made 390,000 544 changes in registers and for the purpose of these changes have produced a thousand 92 elaborates. It should be highlighted except for the volume of work that needed the logistically organised critical challenge was the system of control which had to be multiple on the one hand and on the other hand could only be partially automated, so that we de facto carried out a quadruple control of all the data that entered the technical documentation for the census. The final result of the overall activity is that the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia is supported by an ISSO database, which is a basis for ISSO, supported register of spatial units, and documentation for a list of 9 lists and 5 cartographic depictions each covering the complete territory of the Republic of Croatia. These figures do not in themselves speak much, but do not reveal that the State Geodetic Authority has carried out certain preparatory activities throughout 2010, so that we have had one special action in the Split-Dalmatia County area, an update of streets, squares and home numbers with local self-government units, in particular 30 of the 57 units of local self-government because of the famous tradition of entire settlements with marks bb, so that these units of local self-government have made decisions on the appointment of streets and squares, assigned home numbers and erasure of tags of bb, and thus bringing these records and technical documentation for a list of all other parts of the Republic of Croatia, and I think that today we can say with great satisfaction that in Croatia we no longer have settlements with mass tags of houses without so many bbs. In doing so, I would like to point out that successful co-operation with local self-government units has been achieved, and many units of local self-government have launched not only in the mentioned county, home-numbering actions, along with all those updates of street appointment decisions. In accordance with Article 40. The law of funds for the financing of the State Geodetic Administration's operations was set at € 13.5 million in 2010 and €3.5 million in 2011. Out of that amount, 8 million 896 thousand 591 kuna was paid to geodetic companies for geodetic catastrian services, and 4.5 million, respectively. 4 million 535 thousand 492 kunas were paid as compensation to the members of the commission and 13.5 million were spent from the appropriations of 13 million 432 thousand and 83 kuna. And lastly, I think I can say that the successful preparation of technical documentation was also the basis for the successful implementation of the 2011 census of households, housing and the population, which we believe will also show a report on the implementation of the National Statistics Institute list when it comes to this. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74851	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74852	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here we meet every 10 years with one topic of the country's census. This year it was done from 1 to 24.4. as planned. The census is based on the Law on Census, Households and dwellings. People have different opinions and criteria on what should be listed, but there are certain standards in the first place... the population, but any additional information on this occasion is welcome. To make a good census, it is certainly important to prepare well and, in this sense, I welcome and congratulate Mr. Secretary of State on the preparation carried out because, depending on the preparation of the population census, we are being surveyed and then, after that, by processing the information we need for further work. The work is practically based in the State Geodetic Administration, with which the State Statistics Office worked. A population list was developed. Public attention is mainly focused on the census as those who list work, what they meet, what questions they have to or don't have to answer. According to the report, the commission contained 714 employees working on it. There have been some legal entities that have been engaged but have already been reported in the announcement of the census to work on the total list as I remember. An interesting census of the population or the action itself is interesting from several elements so already not waiting for the results that according to some announcement should be by the end of 6 months, that end of the 6th month seems fateful for a lot of things, not waiting for that end, but we have now come to many lessons that can be interesting to those who are dealing with the development strategy, planning and in general an analysis of the position from which we are moving forward. The very fact is that in this 2011 census, the relationship in terms of graphic monitoring is already changing, that today we already have 33% of the digitally prepared background, that 19 is a digital and analogue basis, and that 48 still in analogue form shows a certain change according to the list 10 years ago. However, an analysis of the data that Mr. Secretary of State said in his presentation was shown in the preparation of a graphic picture of the types of spatial individuals analysed before and after the revision. And they have been established by no change when we talk about counties or cities and municipalities that have 556 to me significant indicators about home numbers. Namely, the home number of cca million and a half and a million or million 468 thousand people compared to the number of inhabitants shows a data that is completely new and unexpected to me that in fact there are only three people in Croatia on one home number. So that's a small number of residents on one home number or a large number of home numbers. But it's also interesting that in those 10 years, there was one fundamental difference for about 100,000 home numbers, which means that 300 thousand people were completely dislocated from their address if they were identified by street and number. Of course these changes were expected, but it didn't seem to me I didn't expect these changes to be that big. I point out this because then the census and preparation for the census apparently suffered a great deal of effort and, in that sense, my increased emphasis on success and pedanity in the preparation of the census. It will be very interesting to see what the census brings in particular what will be interesting in relation to the number of households and the number of dwellings. Namely, for the planning of many in the category of spatial planning and problems we spoke of in the apartment, it is very important how many families have an average population to see the average needs of living space for the team, or how many more are missing or how much we have too much when we talk about the averages or figures that show this regardless of the actual state of use and the fact or the possibility that the same person has a few housing units. It is certainly interesting that what was embedded in the form that many did not understand, or thought that the incursion was in their privacy, which were issues that related to respecting the standards in which the population’s households lived. Another piece of information I would like to point out is that the budget for the funding of the census was foreseen with 13.5 million, as I recall, and that it was realised with 13 432 083.55 kuna, which means that the budget envisaged was not breached, that the planned funds were controlled, the expenditure of the planned funds and that not only remained within it but was narrowly and lower. It is also important to highlight another segment of progress that is indirectly read from this list, from this population census report, that in 2011 compared to 2001 there was a significant shift in the application of new technologies in digital form on new bases, which was simultaneously a major result due to the census, but also available and useful for many other things. So, in conclusion, I would say that this report is absolutely accepted, that it is assessed to prepare, carry out very high quality, appropriate, appropriate, and it will be interesting what the results of the processing of these data will bring, but in any case everything that is processed and will show good lessons, experiences and basis for the revision, for possible revision or useful revision or necessary revision of important strategic documents for the development of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74853	Thank you. It's next to the HNS club, HSU and Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74854	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a report that needs to be said to be quality and that perhaps little and strange has arrived in time for our assembly benches. Therefore, there is all the praise and should be as a practice for all other institutions that are obliged to submit a report on their work to us Assembly representatives. The State Geodetic Authority was obliged to participate in the preparation, organisation and implementation of the census of the population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia under the Law on the census. The population list itself went on as we know in April this year and lasted about a month. The preparation and production of technical documentation has been done in several years and has resulted in these spatial backgrounds and maps and complete documentation in digital form. That job was spent slightly less than $13.5 million. The report says exactly what happened in those 10 years, it was necessary and it was expected. There is therefore a new picture of our Republic of Croatia. According to the HNS Club's assessment, HSU's been done very extensively and I'd say a very useful job. We will therefore support this report, but we will have some questions as soon as the census report arrives on our benches and on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74855	Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. If it's going to be interesting, this is how I'm going to start as Mr. Roshin finished, it's going to be interesting to see what these lists actually bring to all of us. Mr. Roshin, if I'm not mistaken, mentioned these home numbers, so he said, quote, that he's surprised that a small number of people live on one home number, not more than three. I will not say that Croatia is living well, but thanks to that legacy, the 400 thousand, is not the only one, 400 thousand social housing that was built by the 1990s, which has been since '91, '92. take over from their users. It turns out that in Croatia over 90% of citizens or families own an apartment. In one Germany or in Italy, the situation is incomparably mountainous, perhaps 50, 60% of people have in their possession, not owning, but owning their own apartment. In Croatia, the situation is far, far more favourable. It is clear that one Croatia is far from one Germany, although I have now remembered a joke, says one of those in Sweden are 20 years behind us. How, as possible, they're still good. That's how it used to be until the '90s, far better than it is today, and so almost 400 thousand social housing was built at the time, and it sold into someone else and it's good to get rid of those tenants. It is not good that someone bought something for 5, 6 or 7 thousand marks, and later in Opatija or Zagreb or Poreč, Dubrovnik or Split, and sold apartments for 300, 400 or I don't know how many thousands of euros or then marks. But let's let it go now. Our census costs about 170 million kuna. The act of that census itself lasted from preparation to further months. Here, this document or this report on page 13 is literally said to be in accordance with Article 40. The law of funds for the financing of the State Geodetic Administration’s operations is set at € 13.5 million and is again provided for in Chapter 07525 of the State Geodetic Administration. The funds are allocated on 2010 amounting to 10 million kuna and €3.5 million in 2011 and are then said for what it stands out for. Here, too, this report on jobs and spent resources literally states that the update consists, quote, of improving the accuracy of the representation of spatial units by the basis of available originals, the input of data into newly established and changed spatial units and their names and identifiers. Then entering data into newly built streets, squares, entering data into newly built buildings, entering data into home numbers etc., etc. What just surprises me, for example. that in some of our neighbouring countries, if I am not mistaken in Slovenia, The list doesn't cost a single kuna. In fact, he doesn't do it like that. They simply have a supposedly designed system that leads in advance, which advances all the data required in the list of the population being conducted by the Republic of Croatia. Even in one China somewhere I read which is 300 or I don't know how many times more numerous, more people than Croatia this list lasts shorter than it lasts in the Republic of Croatia. And all of that would have been fine if we had at least received systematic data, but until today, there is no such data in public. There is only one piece of information that has been leaked to the public recently presented by the Croatian Bishop's Conference through the fact that there is an incomparably greater number of Roman Catholics in this country today than we were in 2001. So that's the number they kind of got. How come the rest of them didn't get the data that they'd also tangled for. When we talk about that census, I think we should really get all that information. I don't know how many of these plumbers you have in your apartments that I'm not talking about nationality, religiousity. Individuals claimed how many chickens, other animals, etc. But what's interesting is that, for example, the fact that it didn't leak to the public, they didn't leak any data, that some of the confusions today are incomparably less than there are members of the same population, but they were in 2001 or some years earlier. Clearly, all this data collected by such reports is highly useful. It's clear that all of us, too, are far away from some other data more tang. These are the economic ones discussed during yesterday's debate on the implementation of the state budget. However, I believe that if Croatia were computerly networked, under quotes set up we would at any time not know, for example, through JMBG, well today it is gone, we have this famous OIB, we could get almost all the necessary information except two – who is what by nationality and who is what by the religion of confession. It is so freely said that in this country 170 million kuna is the equivalent of about one smaller ship that delivers Brodosplit, 3 May, Oily, etc. So, that money was spent to learn only two facts: how many Croatian citizens have per nationality and how many citizens there are by some confession, or the religion of confession. All other data requested in that census are almost irrelevant. Finally, if they're secret to what they're getting together at all, and I'm saying that in various other ways they're already being taken care of. I don't know who needs the information in this country about how many plumbers there are or how many chickens I don't know when they're looking for. The fact is that in one Slovenia, such data on the census is not required. But why am I saying all this? Among other things, due to the upcoming parliamentary elections, because of the initiatives of individual options that slow down under quotes that positive minority discrimination or the double right to vote to members of individual minorities. If that happens, then I fear that the representatives of minorities will be segregated in the future, and those parties most consistently taking care of minority members are well discredited. Finally, my information is that, for example, all this real estate data in the Republic of Croatia can be obtained from records owned by our Catastres, grantshops, tax administrations because these assets are also paid in taxes. When we talk about wages, we can get all the data. All right, if we can't go through the banks, then we can go through the MIORH or the Croatian Health Insurance Office. The number of members of the household is nothing that is not there but, in its record, the authority of some police administration. The hospital must normally publish data on the born, the mother of the dead. I don't know, a police residence, etc. etc. So all of this can be held at any time when the Republic of Croatia system would not be statistical, but computerly networked. So the fundamental question is whether these lists will be kept in the future or whether all of these data can be de facto and at no cost. All in all good. I already quoted this as saying that these productions of technical documentation cost 13 and a half million kuna, that the update consisted of improving the accuracy of the representation of the boundaries of spatial units to the input of data on home numbers, newly built buildings, etc. Far from the fact that a single census is not welcome. The other thing is if we could live without him. But what's far more important is that one of those structures is reorganized. All in all, let's believe that this report on the performance of jobs and spent resources on the creation of technical documentation for the census of the population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia in 2011 that this report will be done if nothing else is made on the modernisation of individual assets, but I also want to express my faith that our citizens, after doing so financially, will not be charged further when it comes to the introduction, for example. some new taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74856	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74857	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The report on the work done and spent on the construction of technical documentation for the census of the population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia, which was carried out in 2011 before us, and therefore the report of the State Geodetic Administration, which was actually prepared for, in its section for the census that was done, we still don't know the results, so I don't know how my colleague Kajin already knows the number of people by various confiscations, etc., and then knows the number of plumbers, I guess, leaked his water boilers and knocked out in advance, moaning at some data, and he says that he himself is surprised that the data from some kind of girl. But I would not look back on my predecessor's colleague, but rather that it is true that the census is carried out every 10 years, so it was done in '91, 2001, 2011. I believe that the next census will be made in 2021, and when it will be, and that then Croatia will be very likely in the European Union, at least a few years. It will actually be interesting then and compare this 2011 list and then analyse the changes that will take place in these 10 years, and I'm afraid, given everything that awaits us, there will also be amazing results, given that it is then, that it will be a community of 500 million people, in which everyone has the right to live wherever they will, settle where they will, etc. It is true that the State Institute for Statistics on Networking is indeed very sophisticated today, the opportunities sophisticated, so there are great technical opportunities for any institution, and so the State Statistics Institute, to network, to connect with the home offices, then to the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, and to extract data from there that would certainly, if nothing else, at least reduce the number of enquiries in those lists, so the questionnaires that were placed by citizens in the census. If nothing else, at least. And could such an analysis be carried out without a waste of 170 million kuna, it would also be discussed. In any case, the State Geodetic Administration's report is correct, even teachingly, because even from it, and it is a technical material, they are reading some of the changes that have been made, which will be explained when the final, final analysis and data of the State Statistics Institute, and that is that it is written on page 12, and the request of the State Statistics Office has been completed by an additional audit which determines that along with 21 counties, which is therefore not changed in these 10 years, then 556 municipalities and cities, so 430 plus 126, then with settlements of the cadastrian municipalities of statistical circles, censuses, streets and squares, there is an increase in total number of home numbers, and by 100 thousand, with a million and 468 home numbers, per million and 568 thousand. Let's round it up to 100,000, so we don't get into small numbers. I wouldn't explain it to what my predecessor said by buying apartments, etc., but also by building and by sharing a family, separating, growing up and creating a new family, as well as a new home number and a new housing unit. So 100,000 new housing units. The average, someone said here, but if we know that Croatia has about 4 and a half million inhabitants, something less, then the number of persons per unit, so by one home number is even smaller than it was in 2001. And that's what's worrying. That's what we need to think about, that these home numbers, so there's no one to fill, that many houses without children's voting and children's laughter, and that's what's going to show, I don't want to be a bad prophet, which will show the final data of the State Statistics Institute, here to say the devastating fact that the number of people living in a particular household, household, whatever you want by house number is smaller, will be smaller than in 2001, and then we have to ask ourselves, the governments that have been in these 10 years, the question why did this happen? What are the reasons for that? And who's responsible for that, after all? It's a matter of responsibility. Because just looking at the data, reading the facts and shaking it with your hand, putting it aside, that's not enough. The time has come for someone to answer for such things. And finally, a small one, I would not like to be, therefore, a consultant in linguistics, but I would like to have a participation in the implementation of regulations on page 13 of Article 7, to write participations, and immediately thereafter, in paragraph 2, it is such participation, so I would like to ask you, however, that the word participation is, to say the Croatian word used. If the title also writes for participation, I do not understand why it became part of the participation. The HDSSB Club will accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74858	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74859	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, as we have already heard every 10 years in the Republic of Croatia, a census is being conducted. This report, which we had ahead of us, should certainly also be accepted by the State Statistics Office, the State Geodetic Administration, the County, City Listing Commissions and the Listers, thanks for the efforts made in this very comprehensive, complex, responsible, but also very valuable business given the collected data. So, all these participants in this list process that took place during April certainly collected very valuable data. The main holder and organiser of the census is the State Statistics Institute and, in this complex process and business, it should certainly be said that this list is a significant source of data both on the population and on households, families, apartments and so on. What makes these data valuable to us, as I just said earlier, is to look at a general state of society at a certain time, and therefore we can also analyse the changes that have happened or happened, and they certainly happen during that 10-year period. The collected data on the number of populations, the territorial schedule and the composition are important for both economic development policy and social policy, for different scientific research and the like. The way these data are collected is consistent with certainly certain economic and demographic and educational and social characteristics. What we can't say in any case is that in all of this, the State Geodetic Administration played a significant role. First of all, because their task in drawing up technical documentation means that without it, we could not even access this comprehensive business. And it was actually carried out within deadlines, which is very important, and technologically it also enabled the very effective implementation of the census. And all 714 therefore, the officials of the State Geodetic Administration who participated in this process of production which contained cartographic depictions, lists and documentation received by each censusor were given what enabled the structure, or the organisation of the list, and allowed the censusors to act effectively, and that is, at any time, they could, at a certain time, be able to, at a certain time, a circle of the list in which they were, or in a particular street, building, on a certain number, orientate in space and therefore make a census for the specific units for which they were in charge. In this respect, it should certainly be stated that the signification of the collection and timely delivery of the technical documentation made by the State Geodetic Administration is. And especially in this context should I put the recording that I mentioned earlier, which is every street, every building, every home number. It should also be said that local self-government units have been involved in all of this, and it is very effective, perhaps as never before. Which was an important assumption also, therefore, of a fast and efficient and thorough implementation of the list. What should finally be said is that in the list itself and in the list itself, there was also a significant number of censusors, so somewhere around 17 thousand, and it was carried out within the exact deadlines. We will certainly hear about the data at the end of this month and have them in front of us and then we will certainly be able to carry out certain analyses and see what has changed in all segments of life over the past 10 years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74860	Thank you. There's no more interest in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We would now move to and unite the debate if you agree to these three next items of the agenda - Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2009 - Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 - Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2011 All this on the basis of the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government submitted this report on the basis of Articles 33 and 31. The law on official statistics. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Finance, the State Budget on this for 2011. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Ms Ivana Mrkonjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74862	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to begin the 2009 report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activity of the Republic of Croatia. The National Statistics Institute as the main holder, dissinuator and co-ordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia coordinated the preparation of that document programme. Following the consent of the parts of the report of all holders of official statistics, the United Paper submitted to the statistical holders an opinion. On the basis of the opinions received, the Institute completed the documents and submitted to the opinion of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Croatia, which it accepted at the meeting held on 3 December 2010. The annual implementation plan for statistical activities provided for the implementation of 286 statistical surveys and 71 other statistical activities. Under other statistical activities we include projects and professional methodological works. 16 other official statistics holders participated in the implementation of the annual implementation plan with the State Statistics Institute. All planned research has been conducted entirely except for a small number of exceptions listed in the report. It is 5 research of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, one of which was transferred in 2010 and four of them did not even begin because of the lack of human and material resources. Most of the statistical activities in 2009 were carried out by the State Statistics Institute in 172 statistical research and 42 projects, as well as professional methodological work in the annual and multi-annual design dynamics. The State Statistics Office planned to carry out these activities in the amount of 104 million 778 thousand 526 kuna and spent 86 million 427 thousand 944 kuna. We are now passing on to the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan for 2010. Therefore, the annual implementation plan for statistical activities envisaged 286 statistical surveys and 72 other statistical activities involving projects and expert methodology plans. All planned research has been conducted in full except 31 research by the Croatian Institute of Public Health, which is the deadline for first results mainly on 30 June 2011 and 5 surveys from the field of social statistics carried out in the multiannual period and are therefore not the subject of the report. In the area of multidisciplinary statistics, no environmental accident has been carried out which has passed into the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Space Planning and Construction and the jurisdiction of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue which has no required data structured in the manner in which it is sought by the State Statistics Office. In addition to planned activities, an unplanned project has been completed to create a national classification of professions and lists of individual professions. The State Statistics Office planned for the implementation of those activities in 2010 of 127 million 863 kuna and spent 102 million 189 thousand kuna. Finally, the 2011 Implementing Annual Plan. The annual implementation plan provides for the implementation of 278 regular statistical research and 63 other statistical activities related to expert methodological works and development projects. The State Statistics Office is conducting 168 research and 46 other statistical activities. It is important to stress that in 2011 the State Statistics Institute in cooperation with other competent authorities conducted the most extensive statistical research, census of the population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia. The list aims to collect basic data on numbers, territorial schedules, population composition according to its demographic, economic, educational, migration and other characteristics. The list also collects data on households, apartments and their characteristics. In addition to the list of households and apartments, there should be prominent development projects aimed at harmonising Croatia's statistics with statistics from the European Union. On the basis of Article 32 of the Official Statistics Act, the annual implementation plan of statistical activities provides for a review of the total resources required from the national budget. The total necessary funding from the state budget for the implementation of the annual plan is 286 million 526 thousand 349 kuna. The funds needed by the state institution are 270 million 460 thousand 933 kuna. In these funds, the share for the census, households and apartments in the Republic of Croatia amounts to 146 million kuna, the share of EU aid, FIRE 2006, IPA 2008, IPA 2009, 12 million 434 thousand 11 kuna. Share of foreign donations 6 million 313 thousand 997 kuna and share of foreign donations 89 thousand 870 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74863	Thank you. We have heard the opening statement of the applicant's representative for points 7, 8 and 9 of this consolidated agenda. I don't think there's any need to increase the moment for the debate rather than to keep it like it's 10 minutes or 15 minutes for clubs. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74864	Mr. President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club discussed the report on the implementation of the 2009 statistical survey plan, 10th year, which was submitted by the State Statistics Institute and has no objections and suggests that it be accepted. Statistical surveys in the Republic of Croatia are conducted in accordance with the law on official statistics on the basis of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2009 adopted by the Croatian Parliament. This annual statistical survey plan establishes content, spatial coverage, data processing method is also determined by the reporting units and their obligations in relation to the deadlines and responsibilities for the accuracy of the data supplied. The implementation plan shall also establish business operators, official statistics for each field of statistical research. The essence of the basic statistical principles is consistency, impartiality, expertise, public, confidentiality and use of data for purely statistical purposes and public responsibility. However, statistics are often misused, twisted and used to show the wrong picture of someone or something in order to achieve personal benefit or disdain or misrepresent other people's results and successes. As a result of this and such risk of abuse of statistics, there is a legal provision that statistics can be used exclusively for statistical purposes. On the other hand, there are criminal provisions for reporting agents and responsible persons in a legal person if they provide incorrect and unsupervised data to ensure that data are valid and timely. In 2009, a number of statistical activities were published on the phenomena and changes in the economic, demographic and social fields of environmental protection. In the same year of the planned 286 research and 71 projects all research has been conducted entirely except for the 5 that have been transferred to the next, 4 that have not even been started due to the reduction in financial resources. I must point out that in 2009 the negotiating chapter 18-Statistics was provisionally closed and that harmonisation of Croatian statistics with EU standards was announced. A total of 591 employees of 566 civil servants, 24 tenants and one official were employed at the State Statistics Office on 31 December 2010. Out of the total number of employees, 586 were employed indefinitely and 5 at a specified time due to replacement of temporary staff. Amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2010 have been made public to redistribute certain items of expenditure without changing the total amount of the financial plan. Amendments and additions to the State budget provide funding for the activities of the State Statistics Institute. The annual implementation plan 2010 set out individual statistical surveys according to the official statistics business holders set out in the Official Statistics Act. Individual studies shall set out the content, space and scope and method of data processing, and certain reporting units and their obligations with implementation deadlines shall be determined. This year's implementation plan for statistical activities in the Republic of Croatia in 2011 provides for the implementation of 278 regular statistical surveys of data and 63 other statistical activities relating to expert methodological works and development projects. Out of the total number of planned statistical activities, the State Statistics Institute will conduct 168 research and 46 projects in 2011. It is certainly necessary to highlight the implementation of the largest, most demanding statistical survey of the list of population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia in 2011 which took place from 1 to 28 April 2011. The list is the most extensive source of data on the population, populations, families and apartments, and these data are necessary for the implementation of various economic and social development policies and scientific research. In addition to the census, housing in 2011 as important jobs of the State Statistics Institute and other official statistics holders should be highlighted by a number of development projects aimed at further development in line with the development of the European statistical system. In view of the fact that the 2011 annual plan has been developed by the types of statistical research by the activities, deadlines and holders of a full 233 pages, the proposal for an annual statistical activity plan for the following 2012 will give a more detailed description of the parts of the plan which are specific, which should be highlighted in particular on developments, changes and differences compared to last year's plan. Finally, I would like to point out that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the adoption of the proposal for an annual implementation plan for 2009, 2010 and 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74865	Thank you. One notice. 56th session of the Committee on Economy called for today at 14.00 am will be held tomorrow on Friday 10 June at 9.00 am in the hall of Janka Draskovica 202/2. Notify the chairman of the board, Dragan Kovacevic. We have another club. Mr. Miljenko Doric on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74866	Dear Mr. President, representatives of the Government and the State Department, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let us first try to define what official statistics are and what they serve. I think in the Law on Official Statistics, it's best to read one sentence to begin with. "The official statistics provide, on an impartial basis, state, economy, public reliable statistics on economic, demographic, social, health and environmental activities and events." Therefore, statistics are very important, without it no organised state can, but these data should be used in a very good way in a developmental sense. And how and who plans to develop, both statistical activities and the development of society as a whole? Let's get out of the statistics. The proposal for a strategy for the development of official statistics is produced by the State Statistics Office in cooperation with the holders of official statistics and with advice. Who sits on the council, colleagues and colleagues? The members of the council shall be proposed by the institutions and bodies referred to in Article 18 of the Law, and shall be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the strategy for developing official statistics of the Republic of Croatia is adopted by the Croatian Parliament. This is our aim to convince you colleagues and colleagues that both scissors and skirts are in the hands of the representative and executive authority of the Republic of Croatia as regards the development of official statistics. Therefore, all that is missing in this data is your fault and the guilt of the Croatian government. Let's move on. I would now read the first sentence again and say "The official statistics provide an impartial basis to the state, the economy, the public reliable statistics on economic, demographic, social, health and environmental conditions, activities and events". Now I'm trying to go towards the development of the Republic of Croatia, based on the data we have at our disposal. You remember I was two weeks ago when we completed the Law on Science and Higher Education asked me to get information about how many doctors were missing and what specialities before we passed one law in which we generally allowed clinical physicians to work behind 65 in front of clinicians that they couldn't do it, and that other profiles couldn't do it either. All I asked for were numbers and I certainly didn't get them. The development of the state in all segments of colleagues and colleagues, I think you agree with me, is undoubtedly based on accurate data related to material resources, along with human resources, with available technologies, innovation, patents, knowledge, skills. I think that's where we all agree. In particular, we agree that the economic situation in Croatia is also so serious that we need to look for the very specific basis that we are going to start economic life, exploit the potential of the people we have and selectively direct clearly many activities according to what we have. At a time of recession, it is certain that specific data should be sought in search of those advantages that we have in relation to our neighbouring countries or the markets of countries that are still located from our neighbours. At the time of the recession, I think you agree that the triangle between politics, between the economy and the scientific-professional institutions must be very solid and very high-quality organised and coordinated. Both the two and the third clearly base their arguments or must be based on figures, on statistics with which they must be available in detail. All plans made by the state must be based on these data. I remember when I worked as a young researcher in France and then my fellow doctors competed for specialization. I was thrilled to see that the French state had a clear plan of how long it would take for 5, 10 and 15 years for doctors, whose specialties, teachers, police officers, soldiers, judges. It is clear how many profiles the state, but also the private sector will need in a certain period, clearly and based on the country's development strategy. I would therefore ask representatives who are here today with us outside the HNS-HSU club, I am sorry that they are not here and representatives of the Ministry of Labour and other ministries who should have used these data in a developmental sense. I would like to know whether representatives of those ministries sitting in the council have given the State Statistics Office specific tasks or requests for research whose aim is primarily to help Croatia exit the recession. What are research projects, which people are involved in and what results have been obtained over the past two years on these specific research projects, i.e. research in terms of obtaining similar data, to be used at this time to extract Croatia from the severe crisis. I think that's what we need to think, that we need to use concrete data, concrete initiatives because let's not let our colleagues and colleagues ignore the numbers we've received. Nearly 800 employees of the State Statistics Institute cost taxpayers as much as this country costs and all its researchers working on thousands of scientific and research projects. About 130 million each and 130 million others spend tax money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74867	Thank you. We have an individual discussion. Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74868	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will refer most to the 2010 report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia. I have no objection to its content and coverage in the section relating to the types of research projects and professional works. I am pleased that the annual plan that we adopted in the Croatian Parliament in early 2010 was fully implemented, and I am particularly pleased with the fact that it was implemented within the framework of the available funding provided for in the 2010 state budget. Although we all know this, it is important to reiterate that the State Statistics Institute is the main holder, the implementer and coordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia, which performs its work under the Law on Official Statistics, and the annual plan of statistical activities is defined in accordance with international recommendations and standards and is incorporated into it the basic principles of official statistics in accordance with the principles of the United Nations, and these principles are the relevance, impartiality, reliability, transparency, jurisprudence, professional independence, rationality, consistency, public, statistical confidentiality of data use exclusively for statistical purposes and public responsibility. On the basis of the law, and with the principles laid down, the duty of the State Statistics Institute is an effective and timely preparation and presentation of quality statistical indicators and trends affecting economic and social phenomena and processes. In this way, the State Statistics Institute provides all users with a reliable source of data for making relevant decisions and harmonising views based on facts and realistic insight into its place, position, degree of development and success in its branch of activity, grouping, region, country and worldwide. The current and future users are also the reason for the existence and development of the statistical system so that the work of the State Statistics Institute is aimed at meeting their needs as well as best possible. It is important to point out that other authorised bodies, almost all ministries, Croatian institutions, institutions and institutions, took part in the implementation of the 2010 Annual Plan. They collected, processed, stored and published a series of statistics, reports and analyses on phenomena and their changes in the economic, demographic and social areas and environmental protection, and regularly provided statistics to international organisations to carry out international obligations. For 2010, 286 statistical research and 72 projects were envisaged in 17 authorised bodies. What is good is that all planned research has been carried out in full, except for those carried out in a multi-annual period or have passed into the jurisdiction of other institutions. In addition to the planned activities, an unplanned project was completed to produce the national classification of the profession of the NKZ 10 and the list of individual professions, and a harmonisation of the harmonisation of Croatian statistics with the standards of the European Union was continued in 2010. The specific improvements and progress made in the area of data availability are visible through the website of the State Statistics Institute, and the importance of this form of data presentation has grown significantly. It is therefore good to continue to enrich the pages with new content and constant data update, making them available to all users in an up-to-date and easily accessible manner. The statistical advice already mentioned here, the statistical advice of the Republic of Croatia at the State Statistics Institute, which as an advisory and expert body, contributes to ensuring the impact of users, science and the general public on the programme of statistical activities, was established under the Law on Official Statistics. So, we know that it consists of representatives and what is good is both the Croatian National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, the Croatian Parliament, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship, the bodies of state administrations, the bodies of local and regional self-government, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, scientific and professional institutions, associations of employers, trade unions, NGOs and media. I think it's really good that it consists of all these representatives. In addition, in 2010 important jobs were made to improve the statistical infrastructure, introduce a statistical business register, use of economic, social and geographical classification and ciphers, allow automatic update of the database, use of other institutions' databases here are the CNB and significant preparations have been made for the upcoming, therefore, already completed census for 2011. In the end, I must also establish satisfaction with the structure and expertise of employees at the State Statistics Institute who have ultimately carried out all these tasks and tasks and who are responsible for almost 100% of the programme's total number of employees over 66% are employees with high and higher professional training, which, with appropriate and permanent professional training, enables them to improve their business and introduce new methods and technologies of work. On the other hand, I am satisfied with the criteria of gender-based structures, the employment of defenders, disabled people, and national minorities. I personally like the fact that over 78% of employees are women. I will, on the basis of this presented report, which, given the scope of 286 statistical surveys and 72 projects, will show very systematic and transparent implementation of the programme and point to specificities and specificities. I'll support this passing of the report. But given the fact that this is what I would say, and that the debate is also about the 2011 plan, here are some remarks. This is also said by the representative of the Club of Representatives that the proposal for the annual implementation plan for 2012 is slightly different from being slightly better, more reasoned. Because it's developed by types of statistical research, listed by activity, bearers and deadlines. This one for 2011 on a full 233 pages, and I really suggest that MPs be given a more comprehensive explanation of the annual plan's proposal, so for 2012 in which it will be more detailed and point out the parts of the plan that are particularly specific, which should be pointed out, indicate changes and differences in relation to last year's plan. That part was also a little modest in this 2011 plan. It has a lot of statistical data that I believe uses those who really need it. But as far as MPs are concerned, it's really important to us, given that we don't have the comparability of the period, so last year, it's really important that we know what the differences are, what the trends are. Here, I'll support this plan for 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74869	Thank you. There's no more interest in the debate. In these three points of the agenda, I conclude the debate. On these three points of the agenda, we will decide once the conditions are met. We move to the 2009 Annual Implementation Plan Report. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: the 2009 Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted unanimously by 103 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74892	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you, the 2010 Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and expenditure, the report submitted by the Croatian Government under the law which has been applied to Croatian citizens since 1 February 2009. And you'll see from the very data and analysis of the condition that...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74893	Excuse me, Secretary of State. I'm sorry. There's an emergency notice because the meeting's at 11.00, and now it's 10.52. Namely, the chairman of the Mandate-Immunity Commission called a session at 11.00 in the hall of Stjepan Radic (133/I) so here is the notice. Please, yes, so in a few minutes, it's that session. I'm sorry. Secretary of State, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74894	No problem, Mr. President, your right. I will not repeat myself but will briefly sum up this Report and inform the representatives of what has been done in this important area, an area covered by one void, a lack of legal assistance solution for citizens who, for existential reasons, really need it. This is when we look at the 2010 period, we can say that as much as 4200 requests for free legal aid have been received for legal aid, and almost 3300 of them have been accepted. What is interesting is that the number of applications submitted compared to last year has increased by 9% and the number of applications accepted has also increased by 18%. Some conclusions can already be drawn from this information. During that period, around 2 million kuna was calculated for legal services provided by the legal service provider. It's interesting dispersion, dispersion is relatively, dispersion by type of legal aid is very broad in favour of secondary legal aid given, granted, approved about 82% of cases, and received in 18% again it's interesting what legal aid is in 75% of the court cases, and legal advice about 11%, everything else in relatively small volume. Areas and types of proceedings, primarily family-law procedures, even over 50%, executive around 12, almost 13%, ownership and legal procedures also around 11%. Unfortunately, and in, related, about 6% not too much, but according to the number of procedures, even 176 in legal aid were granted to victims of domestic violence. They are also interesting and widespread to approve legal assistance in Croatian counties, so the first place is Sisak-Moslavina County, then Vukovar-Srijemska, Osijek-Baranja, and the city of Zagreb, there is a large majority of these claims. Also what's interesting from this report, that providers have been deployed around these two years to lawyers in over 60%, 65%, and legal, and associations in 35% of cases. What it shows, which has shown two years of application, has actually shown that this system, that this system should be improved in walking, that it should not be critically evaluated already after two years of its application, but should be completed in those areas that can facilitate access to court and public authorities by Croatian citizens, who really need it. As a result, the ministry also increased the value of the point in the legal aid tariff, it developed a list of lawyers who, together with the Croatian Bar of Law, made a list of lawyers who provided legal assistance and nevertheless did a lot of work on education by which officials in the offices of the state administration, which provided legal assistance. It must also be said that since April of this year, the Law on Free Legal Assistance, following the constitutional legal ruling of the Constitutional Court in the Republic of Croatia, will be developed in particular, will be changed in particular with regard to property-legal censorship, with the definition of existential issues, and other things that are imagined in its implementation, i.e. in insufficient precise regulation. What seems to us to be the system, we really think that this system is fulfilling its function, that, and that it is, that we will be able to evaluate it quite well after one, two more, and we also have 5 years of its application in the report, and that until then it should be coordinated in a way that is as simple as possible and that the procedure, but the procedure for accessing the court and the public bodies for Croatian citizens are at one envious professional level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74895	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Vice-President Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74896	Thank you, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. What does the 2010 report show about the exercise of the right to assistance and spending of funds? First of all, perhaps here is to praise that all the data have been formally given and according to the county, how many requirements, in which cases they have been granted, in which percentage, and it is evident that since 2009 the interest in free legal aid has increased since 2010 which we are directly in connection with the increasingly difficult situation of our citizens. If we see from the structure of the search engines seeking free legal assistance, we can see for which cases are the most approved and the most required were for free legal assistance. So it turns out that our citizens, no matter how often they turn to the court, never do it out of reason, and I would say that we, more than citizens, don't have any reasonable litigation, unfortunately we just have a state-wide litigation that won't admit the obvious claims. Of course that's especially burdening the judiciary, but it's not directly this topic. I wanted especially on behalf of the SDP club to point out that citizens are therefore in this poverty, and these are mostly female seekers, who care about family and childcare. So the most claims have exactly the same requirements for legal assistance in family-law procedures, mainly for child restraint. This means that no matter how many years ago the state has promised those famous funds, although this is not the right solution, the real solution is that the state shows itself strong in protecting children. Unfortunately, she didn't do it. Unfortunately, the executions and when judgments come, the executions are weak and in no way carried out, but FINA manages to block, contrary to the law on accounts and all accounts in full amount of citizens, and then the citizens are obliged to interpret FINA and, contrary to the law, to open some special accounts, with which even alimony and other social contributions are seized, which is unacceptable. And in this segment they were also supposed to react from the very ones, they were supposed to react precisely to those in charge of controlling the provision of free legal assistance, it's a huge number of our citizens. So if the state wants to be effective, then it can, and we see in this particular case how it works in the case of FINA, that it is also more effective when it comes to turning on the citizens' pocket. The other most important requirements, i.e. by frequency, except in family-legal relations were those concerning status issues, of course, because people without a solution to status issues cannot solve anything, and only then in third place property-legal relations in the protection of therefore property rights. But in practice and that's something that's missing from this report, and that's the point of everything, how to improve the system. It was said, therefore, that in this opinion further increases should be made, that the Ministry of Justice only insists that the value of the points of those who provide free legal assistance, which are lawyers, are various associations, and legal clinics. Why put these providers in two paid classes with legal service providers? It's only because they represent poor citizens. That's inadmissible. So when they represent poor citizens, they will also be paid poorly. The question is, then the question arises and the motivation and quality of such services. And on the other hand, the privileged who only they can, and that's untransparent because the public is not informed about it, the government is silent, thinks it's a business secret, when the government chooses its own MPs who then pays millions of dollars. And that's something that's inadmissible, so wherever the government intervenes instead of creating justice it unfortunately creates injustice. So the legal service provider, which is the most common lawyer, created first and second-row lawyers. And that's inadmissible! Secondly, what is most important, which is that the requirements are therefore the very patterns for obtaining a legal manual so complicated that the ignorant and poor person does not know and cannot meet it. And that is why, no matter how encouraging this report is, but in practice from those who need it, and they are unable to fulfill it at all, we can say that indeed legal aid in Croatia has, despite great promises, experienced its debacle and had a breakdown. The request has 9 pages and are thus already in the beginning of such an obstacle that such a person does not know and cannot meet it. Many associations have also warned of this. Here's an example of what the associations say. They, i.e. in the budget, are provided 2 million kunas for them, but they have received and achieved only 100 thousand kunas precisely because people who needed free legal aid, because when you see these are even minor even though the trend is precisely because of the crisis and the difficult economic situation and the fall of standards, so the trend is to increase demand. But it still doesn't reflect the right picture and the citizens, perhaps the ones who needed legal help the most needed were left without it. The others are absolutely unprotected because they are unable to meet these requirements. And these requirements, therefore, the removal of these administrative barriers reduces them to the smallest, or such obstacles to the minimum possible measure. That's what associations always warn about. In addition, when a poor person asks for free legal assistance, it is common that it is not located and does not live, does not reside, does not reside in the city, or in the centre of the county where these county bodies are located. And to them, it's a problem to travel, it's a problem to pay for a ticket. So at the outset, we made it impossible for them to do something that is later here we generously give. The rest of you are somewhere, those fruits that they can't pick because of. There is something about this in the report itself and in that assessment of the situation, but we expected it to be spoken openly in order for this free legal aid to be available. Therefore, this legal aid for the most needy citizens, the most needed citizens, has not been achieved. The matter of urgency is also something of crucial importance. The party often needs urgent intervention and urgent free legal assistance because all deadlines, especially in the courts and administrative bodies, are all activities related to deadlines. Therefore, it will be granted legal aid, and while it collects all the documents when it has to declare a complaint within 3 days, of 8 days, of 15 days at best within 30 days. So it's a late-night help. Here is to include your discussion on behalf of the SDP club if the government really intends to provide free legal assistance to the poor and the poorest, first of all, it is necessary to simplify the instruction and the requirements that anyone who is in writing can, almost half-write it, be aware of what population we are talking to, and in addition to that, reduce the high-ranking property censorship that is then simply eliminated by the citizens at the beginning. So, it's a common situation and it's absurd, especially when it comes to property-legal requirements, but it's also about protecting children because they're usually the biggest problems. Where one of the spouses, which is most often also a woman, is led as the owner who cannot even function that property, therefore cannot achieve free legal assistance, has been expelled from that apartment or from that house and cannot exercise the right to alimony. So, all in all, when it comes to free legal aid, you need to get out of the cabinet, look at life and be more lifeless, and less paper if we really want to achieve what we have declared the right to free legal aid. The right also to free legal aid, and that is what the Ministry of Justice must do. The government and in general provide great propaganda, teach people that because it is not normal that in Lika-Senj County no request is addressed, and there is a very difficult situation, I think there is no person who will say, who will oppose the claim unfortunately true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74897	Thank you. We have one correction, Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74898	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to correct the two allegations of a representative lady who incorrectly claims that legal aid has experienced its debacle and its breakdown. It's as incorrect as it is that the state promised famous funds, and it didn't protect the children. Madam, I must tell you here is that this report contains information that clearly indicates that by 9% the number of applications submitted has increased, and the number of applications accepted is 18% higher than in 2009 when we had the first report after the application of the Law on Free Legal Assistance. I will also offer you the same information that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted a whole set of laws and also one of which is the protection of the most vulnerable groups including this and most often has been approved in family legal procedures including child protection procedures and younger minors with behavioural disorders, which is also an additional contribution to the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to protect the most sensitive groups of the population.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74899	Thank you, we have one notice before we continue. The chairman of the Social Partnership Committee, Mr. Boris Kunst, called for an extension of the session, a vote, today 9 June at 13:30 in Stjepan Radic's Hall 133. We continue with this item on the agenda, on behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74900	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So here is a report on the exercise of the right to free legal aid and spending in 2010 which is submitted by the Government under the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which has been in force for 2 years. This Report was made on the basis of data provided by the Office of State Administration in the county and reports required by the providers of free legal aid services. If we compare statistical indicators in 2009 and 2010, we see an increase in the number of applications submitted and approved for free legal aid, and on the other hand the reduction of the denied requirements, which is certainly a positive indicator of how citizens are increasingly familiar with the very existence of this very important institute. They are also familiar with the known conditions for the implementation of free legal aid. As compared to 2009, 9% of the more accepted applications were received, and the number of accepted applications increased by 18%. In total, 4 000 197 applications for free legal aid were received in 2010, and 3267 applications were rejected, 617 were rejected, 113 were rejected, etc. The review of statistical data by county shows that the most requests were received in Osijek-Baranja County, followed by Vukovar-Srijemska, Sisak-Moslavina, City of Zagreb, etc. In view of the type of legal aid in the context of the split into secondary and primary ones, more are those relating to secondary legal aid than 81%. While primary legal aid applies to 18.15% of the demands. As regards the legal area, the most requirements are related to family law, then enforcement procedures, then ownership procedures, etc. If we take as a criterion the nationality of the applicant, in most cases it is Croatian citizenship, then Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship in 23 cases, Serbia in 2 cases, one citizen of Brazil, Macedonia, Germany, etc. Statistics show that legal aid in more than 65% of cases was provided by lawyers, while associations provided legal assistance in 34% of cases. In several counties legal aid in 100% was provided by lawyers such as Bjelovar-Bilogorska, Dubrovnik-Neretva or Krapina-Zagorje County. A very positive activity is visible from this Report, which is a joint initiative by the Croatian Bar and the Ministry of Justice, which has established a list of lawyers who provide free legal assistance in non-limiting counties, in the sense that legal assistance can, or under the terms of certain laws, be provided by other lawyers, but is aimed at making it easier for users of this right, who are often less educated, to seek out free legal assistance providers in this case to a lawyer. I certainly want to praise the increase in points by which from 3 to 5 kuna, although we see from the report that the Ministry of Justice is of the opinion that this point should be further increased, but it will certainly contribute to the fact that as many lawyers as possible will have a need for free legal assistance providers. I think it's commendable to send a letter from the Justice Department to the state administration offices in the county. Encouraged by the number of objections to the strictness of property criteria, which are, as we know, a prerequisite for the exercise of this right. In this letter, the Ministry expressed its view of the interpretation or application of the provisions relating to the property censorship. What is important to note is that in the event of the refusal of the claim for property status, there is the possibility of a positive solution to the requirement in such a way as to reflect the overall situation of the applicant and, therefore, to the specific situation, to respect the facts and circumstances of each individual case, to apply this law in a meaningful way. I certainly think this view of the whole situation is one of the important segments, because those who are not able to pay for their own lawyer will certainly be of great importance, and it is probably one of the reasons why in this year there is less demand for the right to free legal aid and rejected. What I would also like to mention, which is... that and on some committees noted, I think it would be necessary for this report to contain and the information about this, here I see the State Secretary has prepared and brought it, but here I will now say it, however, that future this report also contains information on how many persons with disabilities have asked for free legal assistance, how many such requests have been granted, and how much is rejected. For one simple reason, because from this information we can see and draw some conclusion as to how accessible the judiciary is to a person with disabilities. That it must be as accessible as possible also commits the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as Croatia is among the first signatories. Therefore, Croatia must submit a report to the UN on the implementation of the Convention. In any event, the report will also have to provide information on how accessible the judiciary is to a disabled person. So I think that this kind of information would be commendable for the report itself, and for all of us so that we could have the most reliable data. Since I read a little here in the D.A.'s report on people with disabilities, and I also read the digression to provide free legal assistance, and in the sense that some people with disabilities have complained that they are having a hard time achieving this right. I believe we might know from that information whether it is or not. In any case, I think that this report is complete, that it is well done and further as the main objective of the law remains to bring the system closer to the most needed citizens, so those who are not able to provide themselves with adequate legal assistance, because it would thus question their life existence or the existence of their family. After all, this system has been created and created precisely for the sake of such citizens, and I believe that it will continue to be further promoted so that all those citizens who will have the need to exercise this right can do so in a satisfactory way. Here is a well-respected colleague and fellow MPs, following the above mentioned HDZ club, who certainly supports this report by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74901	Thank you. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74902	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. As regards the report, the exercise of the right to legal aid, or it would be better to say for free legal aid and spending in 2010, when we look at this report in the context of the 2009 report, at least some progress is seen in statistical data. As regards that part of the report, as well as the classification of legal assistance by species, by providers and services, etc. The report would be acceptable. Most likely, it will also decide that the HNS and HSU club accepts this report because the report is not expected that the government is cutting itself off and says that a particular system is not well-organised because there are major obstacles to the functioning and implementation of the provision of free legal assistance. However, so for example. in the assessment of the situation, I stress the assessment by the Ministry of Justice that it is actually a valid assessment of the system as well as the determination of whether it has fulfilled the desired purpose needed to pass for at least 5 years. For this time, the practice of all system participants will be harmonised, and the general public will gain a more complete picture of the system itself and the opportunities it provides to users. As the main goal remains to bring the system closer to the most needed citizens for whom the system itself was created. Look, such a report with this part of the assessment was sent to parliamentary representatives on 14 April 2011, and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on 6 April, so just earlier, abolished part of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and Constitutional Judge Davor Krapac, who signed the decision, stressed that "the issue of free legal aid is very sensitive, especially in the time of the economic crisis. The legislator must regulate it but not because of the formal and bureaucratic desire to close Chapter 23 in negotiations with the EU, but because of all open issues, Krapac said. He added that the price of legal aid should not be an obstacle to the exercise of the rights of Croatian citizens." Krapac said the disputed provisions are wrong because they are contrary to the legal principle of accuracy and the determination of legal standards. And it is also pointed out in the presentation of this Constitutional Court decision that, starting with the fact that in the Republic of Croatia there is a significantly lower level of standard and gross social product per capita, the Constitutional Court assesses that the criteria laid down in the law and interpretation of the ministry leave an unprotected part of socially endangered layers which are often necessary for legal assistance in order to exercise the right to social and other state aid or to assist units of local self-government. More specifically, I recommend that all esteemed colleagues and colleagues examine this decision of the Constitutional Court of the People's Newspaper No. 44/11. because it is written in a simple and understandable language, it is based on examples from practice and is very instructive not only for lawyers, but also for all of us MPs who are not lawyers. I quote one argument from the Constitutional Court's decision that should certainly have a place in the assessment of the situation and a report on the implementation of free legal aid, which reads as follows: it can be observed in particular that typical users are free legal aid to persons from rural areas where elderly persons live, without the necessary means of life and without help, areas of special state care, remote islands. Such persons often live in a rural household, in unsustained and substandard conditions, in homes that were built for several household members, who in the meantime moved or moved into cities. Therefore, the area of such spaces is rarely higher than the conditions indicated under point C of the Ministry interpretation, which means 35 square meters, i.e. an additional 10 square meters per household member. Therefore, because of the area of the house they own, they cannot receive free legal aid despite their being unable to do so and do not have the means to live. It should also be possible to include in the assessment the Constitutional Court’s assessment that, although based on the 2009 report, the situation in 2010 was no more favourable, and the reasoning of the Constitutional Court says: in addition to all of the above, it is necessary to take into account the time that the beneficiary of the free legal aid must invest in obtaining the certificates and other evidence necessary for the application of Article 8. The law on free legal aid, which extends the procedure for issuing a manual. It often lasts more than 15 days as long as it is prescribed that it must continue the procedure itself to issue a manual. The user will on average need more than a month to access the manual, and at that time he may lose the deadline to declare a legal remedy or request for the exercise of any rights that are often linked to a pre-exclusive deadline. Therefore, the previous findings state the Constitutional Court to conclude that Article 8. The law on free legal aid does not meet the requirements of the determination and accuracy of the legal norm, thus jeopardising the rule of law as a fundamental provision of the Constitution. Furthermore, what is important and what is seen from this decision of the Constitutional Court and the reasoning, compare yourself with others. It is important to know where and what we are and how expensive it costs, and it is already said by the Constitutional Court that the price of the service is not the one who is crucial for the user to exercise his right. And in order to avoid it, God knows how much we give for free legal aid, I will quote the European Commission's report on the effectiveness of the judiciary for 2004: lawyers for parties in the free legal aid system are less paid in Europe than usual parties, but lawyers are generally not opposed to the idea of accepting cases of free legal aid for reasons related to professional ethics. For example. lawyers in the Federal Republic of Germany do not oppose this because the state budget is always a responsible debtor, while an ordinary client can become insolvent. According to the report in England and Wales, 58 euros per capita were spent on free legal aid, while 39 euros were spent in Norway, around 22 euros in the Netherlands, in Austria, 2.5 euros in Slovakia, Poland, Bosnia and Herzegovina, less than 1 euro. Furthermore, according to the same report by England and Wales that year, they spent 3 billion euros for free legal aid, Norway 177 million, Ireland 47 million, Germany 468 million, Estonia million and 700 thousand euros, Hungary 855,000 euros. The average amount found in the case of 6 euros in Romania, 16 euros in Hungary, 127 euros in Turkey, imagine 127 euros in Turkey, 350 euros in France, up to a maximum of 3061 euros in Iceland. In the first year of implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the Republic of Croatia has singled out a total of 8 million and 250,000 kuna in the state budget, so less than 2 kuna per capita, out of which it has paid 2 million and 210 thousand kuna to authorised associations, trade unions and legal clinics, which means 50 lips per capita. Of which, a million and 519 thousand kuna were not spent, which amount was returned to the state budget in 2010. The amount of HRK 4.5 million is provided for other forms of legal aid, so another kuna per capita. In 2010, the state budget for free legal aid envisioned 6 million 835 thousand kuna, so 1.5 kuna per capita. So we have to say that these are very, very, very modest funds, very modest funds, regardless of what is essentially a fee for free legal aid is not equivalent to the actual market value of that service. It is only a partial contribution from the state to the rights that all citizens of one country must enjoy. So it's done, but no matter what, no matter the economic situation. It is an extremely modest means of providing free legal assistance. I remember in 2008 my discussion about when we passed the Law on Free Legal Assistance, when I suggested that the Proposer look at slightly wider horizons because it's not all about solving free legal aid. For example, these are English experiences that are very rich. It's in their legal tradition. However, we have something else that is very close to us and perhaps close to mentality, or temperament. On the other hand, we have the Adriatic Republic of Italy which has very few users of free legal aid, and has provided a cheap legal representation and legal assistance service. How did she actually do that? Well, she's developed a social services market. It allowed its union centres to set up agencies for legal representation of workers, but not only in labour disputes but in all labour disputes and of course, it passed laws that they could have a special tariff, that they could not, or that they did not have to meet all the conditions that satisfy the law offices, and that they could, or could charge their service for 50% lower prices and not just legal services. The Republic of Italy has also done so for tax accounting services and consumer protection and for the second pillar of pension insurance to intervene in such insurance contracts. So it's a very interesting system that really suits us according to the temperament, that is, the mentality of our citizens who might have a standstill here because it's not the goal of doing everything for free, but the goal of making each service available in accordance with the economic capabilities of each individual. I think that relieves the pressure on exclusively free legal aid and we're missing that part, that middle part. We either have overpriced legal services or we have free legal aid, and between that we have nothing. Therefore, since, if no change occurs by July 15th, we will have a disabled Law on Free Legal Assistance since the Constitutional Court has challenged certain articles of the law, i.e. they have a period of 15 July I suggest to the Proposer who will obviously have to come here by 15 July with amendments and additions to that law to consider some other models that can improve the effectiveness of the entire legal protection system in Croatia to be more accessible to all categories of citizens regardless of economic income. Thank you. And as said by the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party, the pensioners will give a passing assessment of this report from the aspect of the statistical presentation and expectations of such a report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74903	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74904	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. This Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid in any case is good and it is seen that from year to year, since the Law on Free Legal Assistance has only been applicable since 11 February last and 2009 respectively, this normally represents a significant step for the legal system of the Republic of Croatia because the judicial authorities have become available to all citizens under the same conditions. And I don't think there's any question about anyone in this House that you'd disagree with. Citizens whose existential opportunities do not allow the hire of lawyers for individual legal proceedings, these citizens are no longer discriminated against but are given free legal assistance and representation before the court. The system of free legal assistance is organised in 20 offices of state administration, in county and 13 establishments, and legal assistance can be provided as can be seen by lawyers, associations and law school through the Legal Clinic. Only two legal clinics in Croatia are currently operating, and this is one in Split and one in Zagreb. According to the law, the Committee for Legal Assistance was established as an advisory body of the Ministry of Justice and it is important to say that the composition of the commission is from representatives of union associations, academic community, the Bar Association and the Ministry of Justice. It is only possible for me, in this report, to be a little surprised that this Committee only met once last year, that it had held only one session and that there was no need to meet more often, given that there was indeed more, as the predecessors said, perhaps some things that could be changed positively for those people who needed such a form of legal assistance. In 2010 in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as already pointed out, 4197 requests for free legal aid were received. 3267 of these applications were granted. Which means the budget should be charged for more than 2 million kunas, and 730 cases were rejected and rejected while they remained in the approval process. Legal aid was used mostly in family-law procedures and such procedures last year were around 1716 or 52.88% of all procedures. In family-law procedures, Sisak-Moslavina County is preceded by 169 procedures. Then Primorje-Gorski County with 133 procedures, then Osijek-Baranja County with 125 procedures etc. Free legal aid is mostly used by people in rural areas where the elderly population is normally living without the necessary means of life. It was in principle and it was already highlighted here and the Constitutional Court finally gave this argument. The approval of the level of legal aid depends on the property status of the applicant. However, the Constitutional Court has asked the legislator to comply with these criteria by July 15th of this year, as some citizens live in houses above the prescribed criteria without having the necessary means to live. The users of legal assistance towards the residence are also citizens from Sisak-Moslavina County, they were 361 users, Vukovar-Srijem County 357 users, Osijek-Baranja County 329 users, etc., and the least legal assistance users have from Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Is there really no problem and need, something else or which is the reason, but in any case it's part of the report. The most common legal aid providers are lawyers, in 65.2% of cases, and associations in 34.8% of cases. Until 31 December last year, 33 legal aid associations, including the union and legal clinic, were registered and 345 thousand kunas were allocated from the state budget of the associations to provide legal assistance. I believe that a special interest in funding a system of free legal assistance for its citizens would have to be shown by me and units of local self-government, and normally and in this sense better organised. In 2011, the State budget provides for 4 million kuna for free legal aid, free legal aid providers are obliged to submit annual reports, which is, in any event, good to see the results of what they have spent on the basis of the Justice Ministry project by 15 January of the current year. And normally the same thing that is positive that these neutral assets are also obliged to return to the state budget. All in all, since the application of this right as I said at the beginning of the free legal aid will now have only a second year, even in the beginning, in the habitation that in any case the report is well done, but I think in any case you should see how to simplify for all those who need this legal assistance this whole process, so that they can achieve this free legal aid as quickly as possible, because those who meet these conditions for the achievement of free legal aid are really persons who need to help in this regard both as quickly as possible and in a faster way that they can come and achieve such a kind of assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74905	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the Law on Free Legal Assistance, as we've already heard, began to apply on February 1st 2009, and I will immediately say that this report is better than last year's, because the Proposer accepted suggestions and suggestions for better system creation. Personally, I have to tell Mr. Secretary of State that I've had a hard time reading it, because this report is comprehensive, the text of what's really really happened to me is not dry, it's just one clean and thin reading and the work that's done at all is done in a highly professional way. Otherwise, the meaning of the law is in the chapter of free legal assistance to enable those citizens and citizens who have a weaker property status to hire lawyers and get legal assistance for individual legal actions and have equal access to administrative... Procedures. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Furthermore, the main objective remains to bring the system closer to the citizens needed, I personally think that you have made great progress compared to last year's report. In the first degree of resolution, state administration offices are adopted, as citizens submit their request to that body in the county where these same citizens have their place of residence. In the second degree, it is decided by the Ministry of Justice, which formed the Department of Free Legal Assistance, and as an advisory body is the Committee for Legal Assistance. Therefore, the report also holds reports from the Office of State Administration of County and Association Reports. So we have full insight into the number of requests received throughout the country, and in each particular county. The exact data of the rejected, rejected and suspended applications, as well as the number of requests in the approval procedure, are also shown. Information on types of assistance and types of procedures approved in the previous year has been highlighted. So it also shows users towards citizenship and residence in the county. A clear insight into the share of legal assistance provided by lawyers and by associations is described how associations are registered, and how they finance, the number of cases and the funds spent. The cost structure is also visible, it shows how much the state has provided and how much each state administration office has provided. The Ministry of Justice in secondary affairs has under the law supervised law enforcement by state administration offices. Administrative oversight has also been carried out, and a register of authorised associations is maintained. An education for officials is conducted neatly, which is very important in the implementation of this law, which works on aid approval jobs, as the media information campaign is carried out. In the past year, a total of slightly less than 4000 and two hundred requests were received across Croatia, and a little less than 3 thousand and 300 requests were accepted, 617 were rejected, 113 were rejected, 158 were suspended, and remained in the approval process. Three thousand 262 instructions were issued and calculated 2 million and 40 thousand kuna and paid about 70 thousand kuna. I've already said in one correction that the number of applications submitted has increased by 9%, and the number of applications accepted is 18% higher compared to 2009. Here we also have to say that, the aid was most often approved in family-law procedures, including child and youth protection procedures for minors with behavioral disorders, and procedures based on international conventions, as regards the protection of children's rights and welfare, which are almost 53%. The following are executive procedures with 12.78%, and thirdly ownership rights are in connection with the house or apartment necessary for housing that participate in 10.72% of cases. In addition to Croatian citizens, victims of domestic violence can also participate with 5.42%, so as not to be existentially threatened. It can be provided by lawyers, trade unions, associations and legal clinics so that associations, trade unions and legal clinics can only provide primary legal assistance. The report shows that 62.2% of the cases were provided by lawyers and the rest of the association. The exception is to the municipalities of Sibenik-Kninska and Zadar, where the department of attorneys, the proportion of pardons, is significantly lower than 50%, and in Lika-Senjska no case has been made by lawyers. These service providers are 33 and are the most associations. From the union it is only the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia and two clinics and it is the Faculty of Law at the University of Split and Zagreb. The providers pointed to the main problem of the low-value system, so here we heard and it is seen from the report that on the basis of which the value of the fee was calculated. This was corrected by the tariff regulation in force from November last year, and the ministry's view is that it should be raised to 7 kuna. In order for the system to be even better, the education of all involved in this process continues, from officials working on requests, through lawyers, authorised civil society associations to representatives of the judicial authority. Of course it is necessary to develop this system in walking, of course local communities, citizens and also administrative bodies should be involved. The position of the ministry is also correct, and so is the State Secretary in his opening statement and said that in the next one, two or three years in total, it may take some five years to determine whether or not to adopt a relevant position in a time-out in which we will be able to obtain information on whether this system has achieved its purpose. I hope that now and at this stage he has achieved his purpose, so for these reasons I will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74907	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74908	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I have one dilemma, do you first praise the fact that the number of applications submitted and approved in an increase compared to a year earlier. Because from the point of view of the availability of free legal assistance to citizens should be commended. But what if the increase in this figure is due to a greater number of problems, illegal, illegal or other acts of public and state authorities to the harm of citizens? It may also be that there is more poverty, so the majority of citizens have complied with me otherwise, but indeed with the prerogative criteria, which has led to an increase in the number of applications submitted and approved. In any case, however, the fact that an increasing number of citizens have the possibility and are authorised to use free legal aid is good. Although I would like that number to grow and grow from year to year, not because of greater poverty and more disputes, but because of the fact that we really do something about the criteria because it seems to me that the existing criteria set are not exactly a reflection of the real quality of life in Croatia. As far as the data is concerned, one request. In future reports, I commend the report because it is well written and gives a picture of what was happening, but in order to answer the question of diversity in certain counties in terms of the number of approved applications, it would be good to always compare the number of requests in relation to the number of inhabitants. Namely, it would try or be one of the ways to answer the question why the number of requests is so different because now if we read only the number of requests from the county to the county it is correct, but it is not a complete data unless we compare it with the number of inhabitants. So to insert that information inside so that we can pull the parallel or see that data then we might get an answer to the question of whether there is greater poverty in a county or whether citizens are better informed or really less trouble. Secondly, and that's what I was talking about during the debate on the previous report, I think now, apart from statistics, we should make another little effort to get those who used legal protection to survey. On a set sample of 5, 10, 8%. In fact, we would like to get an answer to the question of the quality of free legal aid, regardless of whether this free legal aid is granted to citizens by lawyers or associations who have exercised that right. This is also extremely important because these data would answer the question whether the amount of compensation granted by the State is one of the reasons for the poorer quality, or whether the citizens are really satisfied with the quality of the services they receive. A colleague of the Hrelj provided information on the heights of these funds for certain countries. I had the opportunity to talk to several citizens who were users of free legal aid who were not thrilled with the quality of the service. But this may be their subjective assessment, a result of dissatisfaction because they have not exercised their rights. That is why these individual statements cannot be used for the assessment in general, but you in that analysis could provide data that would be relevant. And I'm saying, these data could really be used to discuss the need to change the law itself and perhaps act on the ground itself. Like those data on the number of cases per county, the number of residents would point to the fact that some administration offices are overly applying the rules, and others may be too loose. And equating these criteria and practices, because we know that the state administration often likes to create its practice of doing things, even it. And if where the number of these requirements is large in relation to the number of inhabitants, this has proved useful, let that practice become a lesson or message to those who have acted too rigorously. And especially if you publish that kind of information, because you listen to us a little bit less. And in the end, just one more request. If I am well aware of the total number of requests for free legal aid in the last year, about 12.5% or 415 requests were on the subject or because of requests for applications and assistance for executive procedures. So, if over 12% of these requests were only about executive procedures and this is about the category of poor citizens, we're talking about people who barely survive because they got the right to free assistance and they're in trouble because of the executive procedures, this is a signal for the alarm, but not in your portfolio, but in two other addresses, it's the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian National Bank. Why? Under the law implementing the implementation of financial resources, the right to control the conduct of the FINA and the business entities is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. And the right to oversee the conduct of executive procedures in banks, savings and credit unions is with the Croatian National Bank. In view of this official information that you have had such 415 requests for legal assistance in the procedure of enforcement, but also of the fact that citizens who warn about the wrong application of the Law and of the Executive Act and of this law on the implementation of financial resources, please also warn the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian National Bank that there are a very large number of people who are reporting and seeking legal assistance and that something in the conduct of the procedures is not right. That citizens are not given executive orders, that total receipts are put into the decision and not only up to 1/3 as stated by the Law, that executive orders are being placed on already paid accounts and even forged documents, and a rapid reaction from the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian National Bank would contribute to the quality of the conduct of the procedure but on the other hand to protect the interests of citizens, so this number of requests for free legal assistance due to the procedure would certainly be somewhat lower. I want to believe that both the Ministry of Finance and Governor Rohatinski will respond sooner to the warnings heard from the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74909	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74910	Dear counterpart Lesar, not that the state is quick to implement, is also the problem when the one over which the execution is carried out when it says it has been wrongly executed, in which case his struggle to repay the funds is still ahead. Which is completely illogical. We have global car manufacturers Mercedes, Citroen, Renault who after five years of application determines a certain mistake and invite users of these cars to free service, which is one market approach. And here on this side of the country, the system does damage to the individual and he still has to fight to recover those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74911	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74912	You're absolutely right when a citizen whose account has been blocked, to find out who blocked his account and did the work must come to FINA and be careful now he has to pay 57 kuna to get the information or form of the reason for the operation. A man who's blocked his entire salary or his entire pension, and in FINA, he has to pay 57 kuna to find out who sat on his account. And another thing, according to our Law, the billing of wages is an executive document, which means that a worker who does not receive a salary and receives a salary bill on the basis of that document could block the employer's account and thus be charged. Not a single case, not one example in Croatia, I do not know that the salary bill FINA accepted as an executive correction and that it was carried out. But that's why I know dozens of cases where citizens were blocked by a debt account that they settled a few months ago. And the process of proof because they didn't get an executive order, and the refund of funds takes a minimum of six months.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74913	At 11.58, it was time to apply for a debate of 10 minutes, Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74914	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Therefore, before us a report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and spending, after the Law on Free Legal Assistance entered into force in June 2008 and with regard to citizens, the Law began to apply on 1 February 2009 and specific provisions on the approval of legal aid in cross-border disputes will enter into force on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union. The entry into force of the law on free legal assistance with a series of regulations that follow the regulations of the Republic of Croatia, which in the meantime are therefore a whole system that facilitates the citizens of the weaker property situation to access the judicial and administrative procedures where the costs are fully or partly borne by the Republic of Croatia. However, it should be said that until now, until this law on free legal aid came into force, we have had a partially regulated legal aid institute through the provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Lawyership, the Law on Court Taxes, certain provisions of the Penal Code and some other laws. The Law on legal aid itself regulates that legal aid is implemented as primary or secondary, and depending on the forms of legal aid it is defined that lawyers can provide primary and secondary assistance while associations and higher universities are therefore limited to providing only primary legal assistance. So this is also the practice of most EU countries. In addition to the way in which legal aid is granted, the law lays down the competent administration offices. In the counties, as bodies approving legal aid, supervision and protection were arranged in the second degree by the Ministry of Justice and the possibility of initiating a administrative dispute. As regards the very structure of the request for free legal aid, it is dominant that those relating to marriage divorces, enforcement or child alimony, the division of matrimonial property is often present, protection of labour rights, property legal issues, establishment of an extramarital community, establishment of paternity, etc. Such requirements, as reported in the 2010 report, were generally accepted 4000 197 of which were accepted by 3 thousand 267, 617 were rejected, 113, and 158 of them were suspended, respectively, compared to the year preceding the 2009 increase in the total number of requests by 9% and 18%, and since a total of 3 000 847 requests were received in 2009, of which 2 thousand 651, were rejected by 894, and 166, and 129 free legal aid applications were suspended. The increase in the number of applications is certainly a good trend, but in order to make the system of free legal assistance even more effective in the coming years and to achieve its purpose, I think it needs to be brought closer to the citizens above all through its maximum simplification. Of course, as much as it allows for the procedure itself, first of all, through the control of spending funds. The Justice Department is in this sense and so far has done a lot, for example. on this and any speech, shortened and simplified application for free legal assistance. At the very beginning of the application of the law, the value of the point on which the value of the compensation is calculated for providing legal assistance to the lawyer has been increased. To further improve the system, it is important to continue the education of officials who, at the request of free legal assistance, resolve in the first degree as well as other participants in the system. It should also continue to take into account and define the appropriate amount of the legal tariff, given that it is now double the usual legal tariff after the increase. In view of the fact that primary legal aid is far less sought than secondary aid, which means that the parties immediately seek representation in court, it should be considered that the decision should be taken as to whether the primary or secondary legal assistance is left to the officer who solves the case rather than whether it is linked to the party's request. Thus, in certain more complex procedures, the primary legal aid in the form of legal advice could be first provided, and then, by respecting that legal advice, a secondary legal aid instruction would be issued. Therefore, the data mentioned in the report are precisely showing this small number of requests for the provision of primary legal assistance, and thus very little representation of associations as well as legal clinics as legal aid providers. For example, we still have a large number of counties where service providers are free legal aid exclusively lawyers, so there are no associations no legal clinics. And in particular, this is the case in Bjelovarsko-Biogorje County, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Istria, Krapinsko-Zagorje, Ličko-Senjska, Split-Dalmatia, Varazdinska and Zagreb County, so the number of such counties was higher in 2009. Here, in the end, I do not owe, I will say that I will support and vote in favour of accepting this report on the exercise of legal aid rights and the spending of funds in 2010, given that it is a comprehensive and methodologically correct report that allows us to compare and monitor the system of free legal assistance during the previous period with indications of measures to further improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74915	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74916	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I believe Article 14 has been injured. A businessman who says the representative has the rights and responsibilities laid down by the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. And Article 70. The constitution says that everyone has the right to a healthy environment and that these conditions should be ensured. Dear Mr. Vice President, the air in this hall is so heavy that I don't say it doesn't smell, it doesn't smell hot, it can't work normally, it's squirming with us sweat, and we who wear contact lenses are on the way to conjunctivitis. This is a sick building syndrome, and I'm asking to check the ventilation, turn on the ventilation so we can sit here normal and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74917	A very complex and demanding proposal. Let's make the air better. If there are professional services turn on all possible ventilation and sky fans to make the air conditioning in this assembly good. Final review. State Secretary at the Department of Justice Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank all those who really participated very actively in this debate on the 2010 legal aid report and highlighted the good but also the bad side of this system that has been in place and which has been functioning for two years. The aim of this report was certainly nothing to cover up and point out only the good news, so I will not repeat it. It is only important to point out that the simplification of the procedure is also due to the warning of this High House, but above all, the legal aid provider seems systematic and will continue to appear. We understand that the patterns were too complicated, they were on page nine, they're on page 7, today they're on page four. Simplification is going and will follow not with more European than better Croatian trends which are better at the moment than European trends. What is more important, it is important to strengthen the quality of the provision of legal services and this discussion today will contribute to the intervention of the Ministry of Justice, the harmonisation of practices that seem to be simplified with the offices of the state administration and sometimes bring together the primary and secondary ones, which is what part of the MPs spoke of. What is, of course, necessary and what will be done in part by July 15th, then later in the amendments to the law and its application, which is one better definition, more appropriate for Croatian opportunities of property censorship, and according to the constitutional court's decisions. What should be ensured is the increase in resources in the state budget regardless of the situation it is. Further education and promotion will continue, and it seems to us that harmonisation of actions is going well, and what is important is that this area of great interest for the Croatian public and for those most needed in fact points to the need for intervention in a number of others, the legal system in other areas, so that this imbalance between free legal assistance and legal protection can be achieved in that medium layer, strengthen and thus ensure that a series of legal solutions ensure the quality of the legal system and the protection of rights and those with the least resources. I thank you again for your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74919	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74920	We move to the 2010 Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: the 2010 Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds is accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This report was accepted by most votes, 99 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74921	We are going to the next item - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2010 The Ombudsman is the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman provided the report on the basis of Article 8. The law of the Attorney General. The government delivered an opinion. You received the materials by mail. The debate was conducted by committees on human rights and the rights of national minorities, for development and reconstruction, for internal policy and national security, work and social partnership, for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative, Public Advocate Jurica Malcic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74922	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The fourth report is before you, and the last in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament. This is the 2010 report, the year in which the constitutional provision on the Ombudsman was amended, which, in a sense, extended the mandate of the attorney general and to the promotion of human rights, thus one more proactive role, but also with the task of acting on complaints against all state and local authorities, and not only as regards the authorities of state and local administrations and bodies with public powers. However, the powers and tasks of the Ombudsman in accordance with that constitutional provision will be determined and defined only by the adoption of a new law on the regiment, which should have been passed by the end of the 4th month, and I will say something at the end of the hearing. So, this report contains that standard representation of the work of the occupier as it has been these past years, so within the framework and in a way determined by the still applicable Law on the vacancy of the Ombudsman of '92. Also, this year's report does not contain an overview of the work of the institutions and the assessment of the situation in the areas covered by the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, as a special report on the occurrences of discrimination will soon be submitted to the Croatian Parliament in 2010. Therefore, neither national nor other minorities are covered here except in the part where this refers to administrative treatment. In short, some emphasis reports. As you have seen, the Public Attorney has acted in a little more cases than last year and a little more than it was on the last three-year average, but it is still in motion to say the usual number of complaints in the last few years. We have shown statistics according to certain criteria from which trends are also seen, as well as areas in which the attorney general handled the most. What I want to stress here is just a few of these trends that I consider important. On the one hand, it should be said that the share of complaints from administrative areas in which the largest number of cases relate to the consequences of the war and the collapse of the former state has been significantly reduced in recent years, and in the past year it still accounts for 20% of the total number of complaints. It is most often about complaints about the right to rebuild, housing care, pension insurance rights, concessions and status rights. However, given the time since the end of the war, or the establishment of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia in the entire territory of the country, a significant number of unfinished proceedings remain a serious problem because, apart from violating citizens' rights, it also makes their full integration into society more difficult. Disrespect of legal deadlines and the length of proceedings and in other areas is one of the most common forms of violation of rights by the administrative bodies to which citizens point in complaints. You could see from the statistics that a large part, more than 50% of the complaints we consider and lead as established, and as I repeat again far exceeds the percentage of complaints made to the Ombudsmans in the European Union is the result of just disrespecting legal and reasonable deadlines in resolving administrative cases. We must also say that effective protection of the length of proceedings does not, unfortunately, provide a administrative court against which proceedings continue to be inadmissible for a long time. I repeat that it is even believed that the three-year deadline is some reasonable time-limit for resolving before the Administrative Court, which really makes it difficult for citizens to exercise their right. It should be noted that the reasons for the unsustainableness and longevity of the administrative body's procedures are cited, and you have seen this from the government's opinion, complexity, shortcomings and frequent changes in regulations, as well as personnel and material deficits. It is as if they are neglecting the fact that it is the Ministry that the administrative bodies are responsible for the situation in the portfolio, that they have the right and the duty to monitor the situation and to prepare and propose laws, other regulations and relevant policies. And as for human resources and material deficits, they can be an excuse for individual administrative bodies, but not for a country that is obliged to comply with the laws it has adopted and it is required to ensure the conditions for citizens' rights to be exercised within appropriate and reasonable time limits. This also stems from certain judgments in relation to the Republic of Croatia of the European Court of Human Rights. The previous part of the report shows that there are other problems in the quality and ineffectiveness of the work of the administrative authorities in carrying out other administrative functions such as monitoring the situation in the portfolio, proposing laws, policies and measures, and in carrying out administrative inspection. We have described these observations and recommendations and explained them in the display of certain administrative powers and should not be repeated. However, this all indicates that there is still a lot of work to be done in implementing management reform both in adapting and improving the normative framework and its application. One of the key requirements and objectives of the reform, which is the depolitisation and professionalisation of government officials and the recruitment and promotion of civil servants by objective criteria of expertise and ability, has only been partially achieved. The 2005 State Officials Act significantly reduced the number of state officials' positions and prescribed that after the first upcoming elections, management positions become the jobs of civil servants to which they come through a public tender. So, in a way and by the criteria that apply to all civil servants. The law also prohibits the deployment of civil servants to civil servants' posts without a public tender procedure, and in which proceedings should not have a privileged position. Therefore, the law requires civil servants to enter and apply all the provisions of the law in accordance with the requirements for depoliticalisation and professionalisation to the whole of the service system, as well as to other civil servants. I would like to point out that while in the ordinary procedure, the Commission for the Implementation of the Competition sets out a list of candidates, it points to testing, checking knowledge, skills, carrying out talks, interviewing, establishing a ranking list according to the number of points. In a tender procedure for management officials, the Commission shall determine only a list of candidates who meet the formal conditions and invite them to an interview conducted by the head of the body or person authorised by it. After that, the head of the body proposes to the government of the candidate for appointment. Therefore, after the elections were carried out, the first regulation by the Government and then by amending the Law on State Servants has made that amendment, and it is prescribed that governmental management officials are appointed by the Government, and that regulation has prescribed a special, more favourable tender procedure for management officials. Such a procedure if it is carried out after the last elections is not in line with the principles and objectives of the 2005 Law, since it allows except for purely professional and professional criteria and appointments according to political criteria of similarity and loyalty. I repeat this assessment, and in the last two reports, with the belief that depoliticalisation is crucial for a successful and necessary reform of the administration in which professional, impartial professionals will ensure the achievement and protection of citizens' rights and perform other administrative functions. I also express in practice the confirmed belief that politicisation necessarily enables and implements clientelism and corruption to the detriment of citizens and states. In addition to the Law on civil servants, no law on the salaries of civil servants has been adopted, which prevents the establishment of a complete and harmonised payment system for all civil servants, as well as the adoption of new regulations and other internal acts in administrative bodies. Another key law under the administration reform is the new General Administrative Procedure Act adopted in 2009. The law has only been in force since 1 January 2010 and the case has been adopted before that deadline. They're still being settled under the old law. Therefore, there is still not enough information on its application, nor has the Ombudsman still acted on complaints concerning cases of resolution under the provisions of the new law. In this respect, the recommendations we have made are precisely related to the application and supervision of the application of the new law, in particular the new institutes which have just been introduced by this Act, which are an objection to the conduct, i.e. the failure of the public legal authority and the objector to the conduct and decisions of the legal service provider. In the report, we briefly described the work of the Ombudsman on complaints by citizens on the work of the courts and referred to the possibility and effectiveness of legal means to protect against infringements of the rights of the citizens by the courts, in particular because of the length of judicial proceedings and violations of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The show shows that in 2010 a slight increase in complaints was registered with the Ombudsman and that their share was increased to 20% of the total number of cases. In this case as well as in previous reports, it is warned that the most common cause of violations of citizens' rights in pending court cases is within reasonable deadlines, and the biggest problem is the long-term process in civil matters, including the executive procedure. Therefore, there should not be left out of work disputes that should be by nature urgent. But that's also the biggest problem in solving administrative disputes. We all know that, in several previous years, the update has been improved thanks to inter alia and the legislative changes that part of the case has been separated from the jurisdiction of the court, as well as the programmes and measures to resolve the old cases more quickly. Data for 2010 however say that the effects of these measures were short-lived and that they were quite exhausted. This is also the case of a single increase in cases older than three years in civil matters and in executive proceedings. Of course, this all says that it is still a hard-core problem whose resolution is likely to take a long time. In addition to measures already taken and which continue to be taken to significantly reduce the number of cases coming before courts from which the number of cases has not been generated by the state and the discharging of judges of the largest and most burdensome courts. In my view, more permanent resolution will also require serious changes in relations and the division of powers between judicial and executive affairs. So, in the affairs of the judicial and judicial administration. And here, of course, as each time, we propose an important strengthening of the judicial administration in a normative, human and material respect. The judicial administration and the Supreme Court should, in our opinion, be given a stronger position in the management of the system and in the control and control of courts, as well as in the context of participation in the process of proposing all measures and policies relating to this area. Unfortunately, instead of further strengthening the role of President of the Supreme Court, as the Supreme Court of Justice in the Republic of Croatia, the new Law on the State Judicial Council has reduced its role in the process of appointing the President of the Court. The role of the judicial administration should be strengthened in the proceedings under the requirements of a reasonable period of time, since the current effects of that request are highly questionable. Such a request is considered to have been established when the infringement of the right has already occurred, so the post-festum, and then the state is already obliged to pay compensation for the violation of the right. Court impeccableness is the biggest problem for citizens, but it is only one sight and consequence of the situation in the judiciary. The reason for such a situation is also the fact that the political government has never given up the excessive and division of power and inappropriate influence on the judiciary. This was most clearly manifested through the staffing, i.e. the appointment and promotion of judges, the President of the Courts, as well as members of the State Judiciary Council. That this is a serious problem also shows that the criteria set out in Chapter 23 are fulfilled and that the government's reading and measures are being read, as well as the legislative measures that have been taken lately. I also noticed, i.e. that even within the judicial system itself, it was not enough for elections to be made for changes, both in the appointment and promotion of judges, and in creating conditions and mechanisms to remove judges who do not meet the necessary standards of urgency, quality and impartiality. To that end, it is also serious that the new provisions of the Law on the State Judicial Council, including the announcements of the President of the Council, are also the views of the Government on meeting the criteria underlining the role of the State Judicial Council, therefore not only in the appointment, but also in the conduct of strict proceedings against judges who do not meet all the conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also warn, as every year, that we are the institution to which citizens address complaints not only about the threat and violation of individual labour and social rights, but also to point to the general state of legal and social security, calling for the principles of equality before the law, the right to work, social security, health protection and a worthy life. The most difficult situation remains unemployed, employees of employers who often unpunishedly deny their rights and salaries, pensioners with the lowest incomes, but the fact is that the long-term economic crisis has expanded to a growing number of low-income citizens and families, who cannot monitor the rise in cost of life, which is why many threaten court proceedings and executions. All this leads to the threshold of social endurance, and dissatisfaction with the situation is objectively hard to follow and strengthens the sense of injustice. They consider that the state first through unfair and illegal privatisation, and also later through the corruption scheme of politics and thus acquired capital, has enabled an unfair redistribution of national wealth, in favour of a small number of elected ones, and has denied everyone equal chances and opportunities. They also believe that the state authorities, by their own actions, or more often by default, instead of protecting citizens in certain situations, favoured private interests, but also lawlessness and robbery. Many recently open affairs, investigations and court proceedings testify to the familiarity of... The structure is not just a matter of far-reaching privatization past and that structures have kept their stops and in part of the policy at the national local level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also important to take serious account of the general belief that the greatest burden of the crisis is the poorer because of the unfair tax system, and because of the fact that budgetary restrictions are most difficult to hit, but in the assessment that budgets continue to be irrationally spent including funds for social care and social giving. On the basis of all of this one warning we presented in the report, which is that the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia should primarily be realistically assessed, and that they are wrong and harmful and, above all, demotive assessments of the statements from the official circles that, by the degree of achievement and protection of human rights, the Republic of Croatia is at the very top in Europe, as well as in the world. Such assessments are also a reflection of the lack of sense of reality, of the real picture of the difficult situation of a large number of citizens, as well as of the most vulnerable categories, whose social and other rights are at risk not only because of the crisis and indifference, but also because of the poor functioning of the administrative and judicial authorities most called upon to ensure and protect these rights. It is not the real state of human rights to assess only on the basis of the progress made in harmonising the laws and other regulations with the acquis of the European Union, and the requirements of accession negotiations, as the gap between normative and real is obvious and excessive. Many new laws and their amendments and additions have only recently been passed, and it will take a long time for them to apply and verify results in practice. In addition, it is known that part of these laws is unquality and difficult to apply in practice, partly because of its content, but even more so because of an inadequate institutional framework, which should ensure their application. Unfortunately, part of the law was passed in haste, by emergency procedure, and under the pressure of deadlines, and without enough time for serious, professional and public debates. The content of the law was therefore crucially influenced in many cases by experts painting other people's models without a thorough knowledge of the whole of the domestic legal system, including legal culture and the state of the institutions of the domestic ones. Our domestic draft makers have not always been successful in correcting the adaptation of such models, partly due to the fact that it is more important than the content of the law to maintain deadlines and obtain a favourable opinion from European experts and monitors. And finally, very briefly I, we mentioned in the report the development of the institution, here I warn especially about the fact that today it is known that there are proposals for the merger of all defence institutions into one institution. I would warn that, at the point of view of my office and our office, it is that by law at this point, in order to respect at least some constitutional deadline, as well as a request from the criteria, it is also a desire to comply with the law with the Constitution that only the Human Rights Centre should be resolved by the Office of the Public Attorney, and in accordance with the recommendations of the studies that we have carried out in the last two years. So much for now. I think given some public reaction that there will possibly be a debate, I am willing to show myself at the end of my performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74923	Thank you. Committees, Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Chairman of the Committee, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its 49th session on 18 May 2011, the Human Rights and Rights Committee of National Minorities discussed the 2010 report on the work of the Ombudsman and considered it as a parent working body. During the debate, the committee members specifically stressed that the Committee had accepted reports from the Ombudsman in recent years, pointed out that on several occasions the Committee insisted not only on the financial strengthening of the Ombudsman's Office but also on strengthening the office's capacity. This applies not only to the employment of the necessary officials but first of all to the strengthening of the influence of the Advocate General through the change, action and behaviour of institutions based on the respect and treatment of recommendations and initiatives of the Ombudsman. Here, above all, it is thought of the need for necessary changes in the conduct of individual ministries, i.e. the Government, since a report by the Ombudsman can be partly understood as, at least in one part, and as a report on the work of the government in the past year. In this regard, the members of the committee specifically referred to the unacceptable practice introduced in the vote at the plenary sessions of the Assembly, which is based on the government's opinion that the Ombudsman's report is being taken into account rather than being accepted or rejected. Or if we were to go to the final conjecture we could also say that the Ombudsman's report is a matter of Parliament, not government, because as we said before he was in some way a report on the government's work. This team before it complies with Article 92. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is followed by the Ombudsman of the Croatian Parliament, and it follows that the Government is giving an opinion on the work of a part of the Croatian Parliament, while the Parliament respects the government's opinion. And it's kind of circular looking instead of respecting the opinion of the parent and other working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. So, a report by the Attorney General should be one thing for the Parliament, not one thing for the government. It was pointed out that the Government's opinion should contain a proposal for measures the Government intends to take to remove obstacles to the system in the implementation of certain legal solutions, to which the Ombudsman pointed out in his report. This government's behaviour has also contributed to a better perception of parliamentaryism, greater transparency of the work of the state administration, strengthening the independence of parts of the state government, and all in light of the actual closure of the criteria of Chapter 23 of the accession negotiations. Thank God it's almost over now. The members of the board agreed with the Ombudsman's opinion that there is a difference between the content of the law and the implementation of those laws in practice, which assesses inadmissible because that is why constitutional and legal rights of citizens are violated in proceedings before the state administration and bodies with public authority. In particular, attention is paid to incurring social benefits in implementing the Implementing Law, since it often happens to be done on persons, disabled persons with disabilities, social assistance and even with children, even children. Since there has been a significant increase in civil cases and enforcement procedures, the need for further strengthening of the state administration and consistent implementation of certain laws in... The most vulnerable social groups. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A representative of the Roma national minority praised the work of the Ombudsman's Office in dealing with Roma associations, in particular in cases of Roma family raids when there was regular good co-operation with the office. However, an explanation has been requested, the role of the office in individual UNHCR projects, and this explanation has been satisfactorily obtained. The members of the committee specifically referred to the announced adoption of a new Law on the Ombudsman, and they assessed the unacceptable non-compliance with the constitutional deadline within which the law was to be adopted on 22.04. this year, and in particular the incomprehensible fact that... The proposal for this law is not available to the public despite the development of a major debate in the announcement of the accession of special lawyers to the Office of the Public Prosecutor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The members of the Committee are of the opinion that special defences have acquired a certain reputation and autonomy in their activities and that their possible accession would reduce the protection of those social groups to which they are intended. Conversely, it is also supported and announced the accession of the Centre for Human Rights of the Office of the Public Advocates which will contribute to its further institutional strengthening and rationalisation of the system of human rights protection. Following the discussion, the Committee decided to propose to the Parliament that it adopt the following conclusion: 1. A 2010 report on the work of the Advocate General is hereby adopted. Opinions, observations and proposals presented in the debate and observations shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of competent national authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74925	Thank you. What the esteemed representative Franic just said was that it was a threat to a healthy environment in the assembly and thus caused the cold rush in the assembly now we have to put it back, right? ... Yeah, heat back up, cold off. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And let the respected representatives not only turn their personal impressions into general. The Development and Reconstruction Committee? The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security? The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? The Justice Committee? The chairman of the board, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74926	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Pugid's Attorney-General with his associates, Mr. State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At the 63rd session held on 7 June 2011, the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 2010 report on the work of the Police Advocate, which was submitted by the Ombudsman to the President of the Croatian Parliament in an act of 11 April 2011. The Board shall report to the General Court in accordance with Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure discussed in the capacity of the interested working body and in the section relating to persons deprived of liberty and complaints on the work of the judiciary. In his opening statement, the Ombudsman, Mr Jurica Malcic, pointed out that the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 amended the constitutional provision on the Ombudsman. The provision highlighted the pro-active role of the Ombudsman in promoting human rights, the extended area of action and strengthened the powers of the Ombudsman in the protection of citizens. The new tasks of the Ombudsman will be agreed closer by the adoption of a new Law on the Ombudsman. In his further presentation, he limited himself to areas which are part of the Justice Committee's work and relate to persons deprived of liberty and complaints about the work of the judiciary. In 2010, 217 complaints were filed against persons deprived of liberty. The complaints mainly referred to health care, accommodation conditions, conveniences and others. Basic problem of the prison system and continued overcrowding. During the review of the conditions of accommodation in penitentiary and prisons, the Ombudsman found that there were no adequate conditions for the accommodation and maintenance of the prison of persons with physical disabilities. Co-operation with the prison system management assesses positive. The number of complaints on the work of the judiciary in 2010 has increased, a total of 386 complaints were received. In most cases, the complaint concerns dissatisfaction with the outcomes of court disputes, a smaller number of complaints relating to the length of court proceedings in order to consume claims for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. It is the opinion of the Advocate General that although the urgency has improved beyond the measures taken, further strengthening of the judicial administration, in particular the Supreme Court's judicial administration, is needed. The members of the Committee agree that a report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2010 has been processed systematically in administrative areas, supported by an individual description of the case, taken by measures and the outcome of the case, while the evaluations and proposals of the Ombudsman in the final body of the reports are flat-rate, unargumented and not correspondence with the analytical part. The unanimous view of the members of the Committee is that the analysis of statistical indicators in part of the complaint on the work of the judiciary shows that the number of complaints compared to the work reports is not significant and that, in most cases, the complaints on the outcome of the dispute which are subjectively considered unfair, and in a slightly smaller number than the previous years, relate to the length of the proceedings for the application of the law enforcement institute within a reasonable period of time. It is noted, of course, that in the previous year, 35 million kuna was paid within a reasonable period of time and that measures and activities to reduce the duration of the proceedings should therefore continue to be pursued. Compared to complaints from persons deprived of freedom from the display of accommodation facilities and the filling of penitentiary and prisons, the problem of overcrowding of the prison system still exists despite the efforts made and that it should also be taken into account in further capacity increases, setting up space for people with disabilities and measures to get rid of the prison system. It is also found that other countries are struggling with this problem, as well as far more economically strong European countries. There are no significant deviations from previous reports among the reasons for the complaint but it is noted that a significant number of complaints lodged is subject to the formulation, which suggests that the reasons for the submission may be less important. The debate stated that the report on the work of the Ombudsman in part of the evaluations and the proposals relating to the judiciary is pausal, unargumented, does not come out of the analytical part of the report. It is therefore suggested to the Ombudsman that certain findings and formulations be amended in order to retain the framework resulting from the constitutional and legal powers of the Ombudsman. The findings such as those presented here at the plenary session by the Ombudsman, the impunity of the courts, although the biggest problem for the citizens, only one sees the consequences of the overall poor situation in the judiciary, such a condition is unequivocally and in the generally known fact that political authority has never, therefore, denied excessive and dissuading power of inappropriate influence on the judiciary. This is most clearly manifested through the staffing, i.e. the appointment and promotion of judges, the President of courts and also members of the State Judicial Council. Judges appointed by the political criteria of similarity or belonging to interest groups instead of according to the criteria of expertise, ability, independence are caused by the drop in the quality of the trial, and even more falls reputation of the judicial profession and the judiciary commission in general. Today, they have been defended by the necessary needs, with the help of political and judicial officials who are in the past, responsible for the long-term delay in the implementation of reform changes. These findings for the members of the board are absolutely unacceptable, the findings are not supported by concrete cases of complaints about the political impact on choice, on the judiciary, on the selection of judges, on individual complaints by the possible request of the State Judicial Council, on the subject of the State Judicial Council, on the comparison of the evaluations of the elected judge or on the one who did not go to the election so that such flat-rate assessments could be concreteised in violation of human rights and the rights of the citizens, so the members of the Committee asked that if the Advocate General had such complaints to inform both this Committee and the Croatian Parliament because, contrary to the work on unargumented insults to the accounts of the Croatian Judges. The next question is raised: how is it that, after a series of reform amendments to the law, their implementation since the beginning of 2005, which systematically ensures a transparent choice of judges, the progress of judges, the assessment of judges, the decision-making process, the improvement of judges, and secondly, that progress is recognised by the European Commission by closing the chapter of the judiciary and fundamental rights, while the Ombudsman does not recognise any progress already making a flat-rate, unargumented, rough and repeated assessment of the politicisation of the judiciary. Since, in the final address, the Ombudsman reiterated the disputed part of the report, noting that he remained in the evaluations and proposals that were unacceptable to the Committee. The Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose the following conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, a report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2010 is taken into account, of course, in that section concerning complaints about the work of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74927	Thank you. The Board of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia? Does the Government's representative want to further explain the government's opinion? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74928	Mr. Public Attorney with Associates, Mr. Vice President, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs. In its 2010 report, the Ombudsman said that the number of complaints increased by about 15% compared to 2009 but compared to the average between 2006 and 2009. This fact only speaks in favour of the fact that the rights and freedoms of citizens in concrete cases are more violated and threatened by state red tape. Although the attorney general states that over the past few years, the share of war-related cases and the collapse of the former state has been significantly reduced and that this part still stands at 20% of the total number of complaints. This is mainly about complaints about the right to reconstruction, housing, and the right to pension insurance and other status rights, and citizens whose rights are in this regard are largely threatened by members of national minorities, returnees and refugees. Considering that the war ended 16 years ago, 20% of complaints falling off in these constitutional areas are no longer just a thoughtful problem but also a disgrace. It is also the most common form of violation of the law by the administrative authorities that does not respect the legal deadlines and the long-term duration of the proceedings. The share of such cases of 50% led by the Ombudsman's Office as fundamentally exceeds the percentage of complaints made to Ombudsmans in EU countries. After such information which is simply a matter of statistics, not a commitment or personal taste of the Ombudsman, it cannot be argued that administrative bodies in the Republic of Croatia are effective. With the unwarranted abolition of administrative solutions by the administrative authorities, thus returning to a retrial which unwarrantedly drags the proceedings into an end, while citizens have been waiting for years for their dispute, the Ombudsman also warns of the ineffectiveness of the Administrative Court against which proceedings are inadmissible for a long time. The Ombudsman shall state one absurdity, in practice under reasonable duration of the dispute all deadlines within three years. And I wonder if those who consider such practice to be reasonable have any sensitivity towards a citizen who awaits the end of the dispute, the protection of their rights, the satisfaction when his rights are threatened. State authorities shall be justified in such a way that the cases are complex, that the laws are changed too quickly or that they are insufficient in certain cases and that they suffer because of human or material deficits. Such justification is nothing more than criticism of its own work, and criticism sent primarily to the executive authority. Even in his own case, the Ombudsman states that despite a period of 30 days a few months, he did not receive answers to his own requests. In as many as 62 cases, it wasn't obvious or received. The bodies that do not respond on an up-to-date basis to the requests of the Ombudsman are the Central State Office for State Property Management, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, the Ministry of Justice, the Department of Civil Law, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Administration. Disrespect of deadlines and order of settlement of cases is suitable ground for corruption. Along the way, according to a survey by the Economic Institute on the scales of corruption in the Republic of Croatia whose results were presented a few days ago, 45% of citizens believe that corruption was on the rise from 2007 to July 2010. The survey also showed that 11% of citizens in the same period in contact with the public sector were involved in a kind of corruption situation. In addition to criticism referred to by the dissuasion of the administrative authorities, the Ombudsman points to their politicisation or to irregularities in the selection and promotion of civil servants, in particular those in charge. It stands out as a necessary prerequisite for a successful reform of the state administration. In addition to this remarks by the occupier, I would like to point out the statement by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Taker, a few months ago, which read "Can't escape from politicisation, it's everywhere. If research were to be conducted, it would be seen exactly what is the political option in which the work of the state administration in power is." I would say that there is no need for research because it is known that in all parts of the state administration in HDZ, shades are only in the clans of that party that hold individual resources, and employment is carried out publicly and secretly solely on the party's key. Therefore, it is entirely appropriate for the Ombudsman's remarks that the system of appointments has a similarity and loyalty and that we are still very far from being appointed and employed according to professional and professional criteria. The Ombudsman specifically referred to complaints about the work of the courts in the Republic of Croatia. It states that in the previous year the number of complaints about the work of courts increased to more than 20% of the total number of cases received. In particular, it points to problems with the long-term nature of civil affairs procedures and enforcement procedures. The number of cases in civil matters and in executive proceedings, which are older than three years, has increased significantly. The Ombudsman also states that they did not have the number of these cases generated by the state. These allegations may be procedural, but the Ombudsman points to a much deeper and bigger problem and I will quote from the report. "Such a state is the cause of the unequivocal and universally known fact that the political government has never given up the excessive and division of the government's inappropriate influence on the judiciary. This was most clearly manifested through the staffing or the appointment and promotion of judges, the President of the Courts, as well as members of the State Judicial Council. Judges appointed by political criteria, similarity or belonging to interest groups instead of criteria of expertise, ability and independence are caused by a drop in the quality of the trial, and even more falls reputation of the judicial profession and trust in the judiciary in general. They are still a dam for the needed changes." When such a remark comes from the mouth of the Ombudsman of the Croatian Parliament for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms established by the Constitution of laws, international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia, it would not be easily accepted or understood in any country of modern democracy. If this and still open questions had been addressed in time, we would not be in a position to expect a monitoring announcement for chapter 23, and the fact is that just for chapter 23, the longest negotiation was conducted was not without reason. As regards social and legal security issues, as well as in previous reports, the Ombudsman points out the position of unemployed persons and persons whose employers violate labour regulations and deny their rights, but also salaries and pensioners with the lowest income. The economic crisis has increased the number of people at risk, and this dissatisfaction is accompanied by a sense of injustice and infinity. Citizens in their complaints point to illegal privatisation and, as a consequence, to deny equal opportunities and opportunities for all. However, by taking into account the cases on which he is working as a cause of such a situation, the Ombudsman not only identifies the privatisation past but also the corrupt scheme of politics and capital that enables individuals to be favored often at the expense of citizens by jeopardising their rights, primarily from work and to the harm of public interest. This is witnessed by numerous affairs whose participants come from the top of the policy, which have been opened recently. Criticising the country's attitude towards the most socially vulnerable citizens, the Ombudsman points to an unfair tax system, the threat of already impoverished citizens by additional budgetary restrictions, and the assessment that budgets, including social care and social giving, are being spent irrationally. The fact that some laws have normably aligned with the acquis of the European Union does not yet mean that the prevailing gap between the normative and the real, between the law and their implementation is in practice. I would also mention some announcements about the abolition of independent offices by three specialised lawyers, the one for children, the one for people with disabilities and the one for gender equality. This is intended to be carried out under the foreign exchange so as to strengthen the institution of the Ombudsman, and that the three lawyers will connect with his office. My opinion is that the Ombudsman's institution could be strengthened in a different way, so that he was given additional powers, and above all it was necessary to seriousise the state administration to answer his questions in time. Finally, I think it is very signifying that the government is taking note for a fourth year in a series of reports by the Ombudsman. Criticism at the expense of the attorney general and his evaluations are considered to be at least irresponsible. His allegations were documented with 2260 items on which his office worked in 2010, and what he reports is not a question of his personal taste or bias. Any speculation with these concepts creates the impression that the role of the occupier is seen inconclusive by the executive authority without saying that it is not respected. The findings that his grades were flat-out make fun of no one else but those who came to him for help. Those who accuse the occupier of bias are putting themselves in a funny position as a school repeater who insists that they fall in class because professors hate him. Those who ignore the attorney general ignore the needs of the citizens. The SDP supports this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74929	Thank you. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74930	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Public Attorney with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say something on behalf of the SDSS Club about this report that's on the subject of debate today. The general report that's been presented here for us is a good report. It is quite comprehensive in certain currentities, has a realistic assessment of the causes and consequences of certain negative trends in society, therefore clearly points to things that we should very quickly correct, correct or not use any other expression. What's visible is this. First, the number of complaints of citizens does not decrease, it increases. That's one negative, bad trend. So in 2010, we see that it was filed somewhere around 1823 a written complaint, which is more than the previous years. Secondly, complaints always take place in the same sphere of social events. It's the judiciary, the police, it's a sphere of housing restoration, so one area of PPDS, there's a pension system, there's a working relationship. So that's something that, following reports from previous years, mostly complaints happen in these spheres. The next thing you know from this report, it's abuse of legal standards. First, the rules are interpreted on a case-by-case basis, and in this way, some, on condition that I tell an official in a state apparatus, thus giving the impression that the clerks interpret the rules as they do in certain cases. Next, it's too long a trial. What's visible is that the average length of litigation is over 10 years. It is something that is beyond European standards and something that the profession needs to say its own, clearly says its last opinion, but then asks one question is whether this is about the intention in certain cases that they deliberately move away and never get rid of it or whether it's some kind of professional negligence in this case. The next thing that's seen in the category of abuse of legal standards is the abuse of the institution of silence of the administration. So there's an impression from the administration, the state administration when a certain thing won't work out positively in favor of the party then acts passively or passively. It's something that extends as one observed phenomenon in most of this report. So from this, to conclude that the system exists, our legislation is the legislation of high standards, but it is compromised by enforcement, so it compromises the human factor, or the frequent lack of awareness of officials or individuals in charge of the execution and implementation of that legislation. The impression is that this is particularly enhanced when the other party is a member of a minority group in such proceedings. The result is certainly one phenomenon that is not good, which is not promising for us, which is that such one conduct provokes unnecessary, numerous unnecessary and very expensive procedures for the state before the International Court of Strasbourg. There are data, there are facts that say that almost all such disputes are resolved to harm, or against the Republic of Croatia, and they are very large financial, very large amounts. With these phenomena that are here and the Ombudsman, we have often spoken as a party, and we have always tried to put in some kind of conversation all these problems as a set of problems to talk about, to talk about permanently and to try to solve them. I'd especially like to look back here at some things that I think are characteristic. In the category of administration for the field of special state care, the Ombudsman said that complaints about the work of this administration during 2010 mainly referred to the long-term sustainability of the housing procedure, non-compliance and non-transparentity of the list of housing championships, and the reasons for such treatment are often attributed to corruption but also discrimination based on their nationality which can, of course, be a subjective assessment, but thus shown here in this report. It is also said that by June 2010, former tenants had submitted more than 13817 applications for housing and outside the area of special state care from which 10494 were resolved and therefore was positively adopted around 7 and 400. 50%, therefore, of the positively resolved requirements in 2010. The question then arises here when will the housing process be resolved if in 2010 before the closure of chapter 23 of the European Union we have not solved even 50% of the demands of people for housing. That's what the report says here. What is encouraging is that we have recently adopted amendments to the Law on the areas of special state care where we have seen these problems by defining a new list, a new way of forming a list of candidates and some other things, and we are left to see that by applying these changes to the PPDS Act that this will really de facto in life and improve this process. I must say here that recently the government has also made a decision to sell apartments in Croatia's Podunavlje which is also a good thing. We think it should have been brought before. We should not have waited half of 2011 and put a specific category of users of these apartments in an unfavourable position compared to other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is also here in this chapter and it is said that there are about 20 items left to be recovered temporarily from the assets and cases in which former customers are asking the owner for a fee for the property invested. This is a very interesting legal situation and a very difficult life situation for people who are in a situation to seek back their property. There's been someone in it for a long time. He invested in that property based on some kind of decision. And now that he's got his house back in the dispute, he's been given compensation for the funds invested in very large amounts. Of course these people can't pay you. It happens that they're taking away everything they have left of their property. It's not a lot of cases. It's said 20, maybe less. The fact is that we still haven't found a model today how we're going to solve this thing and how we're going to sort of take that burden down from the budget, or how we're going to damage that category of people. The rebuilding office. You said the Agency for Reconstruction resolves complaints about first-degree acts of the Office of State Administration by county, about the right to rebuild family homes and apartments, where the most common reason is the complaint to the public defender for the duration of the procedure and for 10 years. So, if that's the case, if that's the case, then the question really is whether, when and how we're going to end quickly and how we're going to end this renewal process if today in 2010 and 2011, we still have 50% of the outstanding cases at the Agency for Reconstruction. There's also one question here, one of your assessments of whether this is about the silence of the administration. Probably in some cases it's also about the silence of the administration. So, in the abuse of that institute that I was just talking about. Of course we have a power problem here. It is the highest standard today in the European Union and when we enter the European Union it is unimaginable that we still have areas, we have entire settlements that do not have electricity. So that's something we shouldn't talk about today. But it is an unquestionable basic standard of living for a European man, and in addition, it is about places which only perspective see in some way putting these objects into the function of rural tourism, rural tourism, etc. etc. And all of this comes into question because we didn't allow people to have electricity as an elemental thing. In the status issues here, we have listed a number of things that we have often warned about, and these are mostly issues around residence and residence and citizenship problems. We don't think we're working fast enough to realize these problems. It's a matter that a whole set of problems could be discussed and it's not the subject of debate today. But the fact is that there is something going on here that we should be concerned about, which is that it is in the process, that the complaints which mainly referred to the residence and residence of citizens pointed to the occurrence of an unequal application of the rules by individual police administrations. So, this is the thing to discuss in this case how it is possible in the established system within the same system that different participants of this system are interpreting the current regulations, and they directly affect the most sensitive category of citizens, and these are their status rights. So that thing needs to get in line. We expect that the new legal proposals on residence and also on citizens' citizenship, on the acquisition of citizenship, will solve the problem of a particular category that is not a small number of people who have their own problem, i.e. the problem of unsettled admission to Croatian citizenship, although for a long, long time even the third generation of citizens of the Republic of Croatia and because of this handicap are unable to achieve the elemental benefits of life that all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia have achieved. Here was one review of this report that we consider to be repeating good, correct, professionally done, and we will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74931	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74932	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Public Attorney with Associates, fellow MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. In front of us is the 2010 Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Croatia, the Report that is last given in this framework, as we have adopted new provisions concerning the Ombudsman, where additional powers are given to him in independence and the next report before the Croatian Assembly will be within the framework of the new legislative and institution of the framework, once we have passed the Law on the Ombudsman that we are obliged to make on the basis of constitutional changes. The 2010 Ombudsman's report is based on its own framework, statistical data, conclusions similar to reports we have had in recent years here in the Croatian Parliament, the Ombudsman in his report gives an overview of the status, a review of the data on respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens, and reviews and suggestions of the Croatian Assembly for improving the conditions based on the conclusions and evaluations given by the Ombudsman in his report. As in recent years, the Ombudsman in his report has given special attention to those areas where the citizens' complaints were the greatest, and points out the need for a civil defender in his conclusions to make further efforts to improve the protection of human rights, especially when it comes to legal certainty, equality of citizens, efficiency, urgency, shortcomings in the normative system or shortcomings in the application of the normative system, primarily when it comes to legal frameworks and the protection of citizens under the laws of the Republic of Croatia. In 2010, a thousand 823 complaints were received, which is for 168 complaints more than in 2009, and 576 citizens were admitted to the conversation in the public's office. In his report, the occupier's lawyer says he receives citizens' requests daily, complaints by telephone, fax, and e-mail. It is particularly important to stress that the Ombudsman in the framework responds in a timely manner to the complaints of the citizens, and his opinions, sends the queries to the competent ministries of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In its report, the Ombudsman shall, in particular, stress the deadlines and reasonable deadlines relating to the enquiries sent to the resolution ministries, and in particular in his report, refer to the deadline within which you are entitled to complaints from citizens and to queries sent by the Ombudsman, which are longer than that which he leads to in his report for more than 30 days. In some of the questions on the basis of the answers from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it was not possible to answer within the deadlines set, since, in particular, it sometimes took more time to conclude and answer the asked questions, simply on the basis of a 30-day legal deadline, it was not possible to respond with regard to the severity of the cases. Incidentally, when it could have been answered in time and in accordance with the law. As regards the emphasis given by the Ombudsman in his report, the following areas are specifically set up. In the area of renovation, housing, return... the assets seized, the 2010 Ombudsman's 2010 report raised complaints concerning non-transparency, non-compliance with court proceedings for the investment of temporary beneficiaries in assets that were temporarily in possession of the use of and the resolution of the problem of protected tenants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In response to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is stated that a new draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the areas of special state care, which was delivered to the Assembly on 2 April 2011, and on the basis of new legal solutions, this situation will improve when it comes to reconstruction and housing. In particular, the Ombudsman's report highlights persons deprived of liberty. This is a particular problem, especially when it comes to the conditions of accommodation, conditions for treatment and treatments concerning persons deprived of freedom and prison system in the Republic of Croatia, and the public defender in his report specifically points to these problems, as well as to those prisons and institutions he visited in 2010. In response to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and on the basis of objections and questions that have come from both prisoners and inmates, as well as recommendations from the Ombudsman, it is said that additional efforts by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the entire administration of the prison system, as well as financial opportunities and on the economic situation, particularly on the state budget, depend on and invest in these systems, but we believe that it is very important and important in which conditions in the prison system in the Republic of Croatia are listed. In our opinion, on the basis of recommendations from the Ombudsman, we have a response from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that is under way... , that is, it is already completed new buildings, penitentiary facilities in Glina, intended for the 420 prisoners who started in 2009, that in 2010, activities concerning the preparation and construction of a new prison building in Zagreb were continued, to re-purpose and adapt certain premises in prisons, in 2010 penitentiary facilities were increased, and to continue to work on improving the conditions of prisoner accommodation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2010, preparations were continued for the construction of a new prison penitentiary in Sibenik, intended for the accommodation of a thousand 230 prisoners. As for the investment of additional efforts of the prison system administration, it continued with a whole series of measures and activities aimed at removing both significant and disadvantages and removing the negative effects of overcrowding in the prison system in the Republic of Croatia. The report also states that special care is being taken on the health protection of prisoners and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent administration of the prison system in 2011 will take particular care of the recommendations and provided for, therefore, by the instructions of the Ombudsman in matters of the prison system in the Republic of Croatia, since we have created a solid legal framework, it is also necessary to create conditions that are adequate to international standards and legal frameworks in the Republic of Croatia, when, as regards the prison system. The occupier specifically addresses his report on the conduct of police officers, primarily when it comes to the acquisition of Croatian citizenship, but generally in the conduct of police officers in their work in relation to citizens. In its part of the report concerning the conduct of police officers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior in its response to the report and its opinion, it states that special efforts are being made and that the Ministry of the Interior, on the basis of sound internal control, is being monitored on the basis of applications, and that all data concerning and actions are available to the public and that the arguments relating to these parties are addressed on time. It is particularly pointed out that further efforts will be made to meet all those criteria that are the standards of the European Union countries, given the new legal framework that we have created in this area as well. As regards the report, and as regards the status rights of citizens, the Ombudsman in his report gives a special emphasis on the acquisition of Croatian citizenship, in accordance with the law, and in particular on the conditions concerning the acquisition of citizenship, which the Ministry of the Interior gives under Article 8(1). The law on Croatian citizenship, and it is pointed out that the Ministry of the Interior gives detailed reasons when it comes to a national of Croatian citizenship on the basis of this point of the law and therefore does not allow the parties to enter Croatian citizenship if all legal conditions are met, if there are additional problems, so the parties are referred to the laws of the Ministry of Interior and, in response to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, are therefore given the opinion that, regardless of the problems that any citizen who had legal conditions for obtaining Croatian citizenship is allowed to do so unless those cases are contrary to the legal and constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the part of the report relating to official and labour relations between state and local officials, particular emphasis is given on competitions, so within the system of officials and local officials where it is stated that the agreement of the Head of State, or local administration, is therefore sought when a public tender is announced to seek the consent of the Head of Transfer. It is stated in the reply of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the above problem is resolved on the basis of the objections and recommendations made by the Ombudsman in such a way that if a person has been chosen to obtain the consent of the transfer leader, and if he does not get the consent it is possible to cancel the contract of employment, the contractual termination where the party is therefore not disabled so that he can obtain employment in the place he received from a public tender. In this part of the Report of the Ombudsman, emphasis is given in particular to the state of local self-government, the state of social care, family and legal protection, the situation in pre-school education, primary, secondary and high education and science, where therefore, on the basis of the opinion and recommendations of the Ombudsman, the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes every effort to address the shortcomings and to follow the recommendations of the Ombudsman. This report, in its part of the standardised report, has all the elements which can be accepted but part of the report relating to the evaluations and proposals of the Ombudsman, and, above all, part of the report concerning the state of the state and public administration, local administration, the state of justice, the situation in the judiciary and certain categories of conclusions, do not go into the independence and legal and constitutional powers of the public defender in accordance with the provisions of the Republic of Croatia, some parts of the reports are, in their consideration, quite questionable, because they question the system and way of monitoring and the work of certain resolutions, which, in their final assessment report, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the relevant ministries need to take into account, in particular, where there is no conclusion in the concrete case of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the relevant ministries. We bear in mind here that here in the Croatian Parliament, we have created a strong enough legal framework, that by changing the legal solutions in the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the completion of negotiations and the harmonisation of the legislation and justice of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the EU, we have created strong laws where, by these laws, if a concrete case of such phenomena arises, what should be addressed by the Ombudsman in his report and can be reacted and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also the Croatian Parliament could influence and make decisions in such cases. This part of the report should be more concrete because it does not clearly state what is meant here but has been given flat-rate and general evaluations. Like last year, we can't get the impression that we don't know what to do in a specific case. Because if it's a concrete court case, then there are legal solutions both through the laws and through the State Judiciary Council that those who don't do their job are relieved of their duties because I said we've passed a firm legal framework. In this part of the report on the conclusion of the negotiations, we consider it a rigid statement that years have been wasted and that only formal amendments to the law do not mean that we have met all those criteria and that we have become a high democratic European state. I believe that we have all made enough efforts, we believe that we have brought the Republic of Croatia to the end of the negotiations and that the Republic of Croatia will meet the criteria and become 28 EU members based on the opinion of the European Commission and all the EU's highest institutions. We believe that this House has made its full contribution, and in this part we need to give all the support to both the Croatian Parliament and the competent institutions in their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74933	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Commissioners of the Croatian Parliament discussed at today's session the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, the granting of authorisation for the deprivement of liberty, the determination of detention and the prison of investigation against Agent Ivan Chehok for the reasonable suspicion that he committed the crimes of the Association for the initiation of the crimes referred to in Articles 333 and 337. Penal Code. Today, the Mandate-Immunity Commission also proposed to the Croatian Assembly the unanimous adoption of the Decision to grant authorisation for the deprivement of liberty, the determination of detention and the investigative prison against MP Ivan Chehok. Since the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament resolves such procedures for deprivement of the mandate and for the deprivement of liberty and the determination of detention and of the prison against MPs in the most urgent way, we will suspend this debate and at 15.00 hours we will continue the debate with the Report on the request for approval of the Mandate Commission and after the debate is held at 15.00 hours, we are scheduled to vote on the request at 1600 hours, on the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. So, resuming the session at 15.00 hours with a debate on the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74934	and now we continue with the item on the agenda Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2010. The applicant is, as has already been published, not to be repeated. And here comes the HDSSB club, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74935	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I got a little wet suit, and if you can see it, someone gets wet and doesn't see it getting wet, but here it is. So, I'd like to start with a letter actually in the domain of the attorney general, based not on the article but on this title of work and on the relationship in the economy and crafts on page 90. The gentleman who sent the memo was born in Osijek in '53. He's been employed in the Mundus branch in Osijek for ten months now, which is in bankruptcy. These chairs you're sitting on, these chairs and you, Mr. President, and we've all just been working on Mundus Varazdin and are still in life, very high quality and still in function. Unfortunately, the company is in bankruptcy. The gentleman is 57 years old, and up to 60 can't make a pension. Ten months didn't even get a minimum personal income. Is it, then, that if he retires at 36 years of counseling and needs to wait 60 years to exercise his right, from which a man will live for 3 years, he is now 57 years old? Is it for the attorney general, or isn't it, if a man is going to turn to me, he's talking to me, but I don't know where else. But there's a brightness in cases like this. Here's what's happened today, what's been given to us by Mr. Public Attorney General in his extensive and extensive report on 1,823 cases as far as it was in the 2010 civil defender's office. This figure varies from 2007, but it's mostly from 1,600 to 1900. So in this context, the number of cases being handled every year by the Ombudsman is moving. It's interesting that on the page. 5. It also makes it clear and loud that the hearings of the Ombudsman are not answered on an up-to-date basis by the Central Office for the Management of State Property. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, then the Ministry of Justice, writes. Speaking of the Ministry of Justice, then not only do people address the occupier but also the court in Strasbourg because of the deadlines of the trial, because of the dispute of the judiciary, but also get rulings that cost the Croatian state tens of millions of kuna, Croatian taxpayers. Furthermore, the other day I wrote a presentation to the prime minister for the slow resolution of the request of the hunting society "Kuna" from Garcin, which for two years awaits a solution for the allocation of so-called parcels, the land particles that are located and which, which are, which are, which are, which are, by the Hunt society, the "Kuna" Association from Garcin, have enjoyed already, or have once spoken, usurped for 50 or more years. And unfortunately, from the Central Office of State Property Management there is no answer, either positive, or negative. I don't know. On page 7, there is a chart on which, or picture 6, which shows complaints by cities. And so only those cities that have over 25 complaints are shown. So 25 and more. Here, Zagreb clearly according to its size leads with 505 complaints, Split 72, Rijeka 59, Pula 49 and see Lepoglava 49. I don't want to say anything about the geographical accommodation of Leprechaun, but there's a prison in Leprechaun. Sisak 39, Požega 25 at the end and here is no Slavonski Brod which is very interesting. The sixth-largest city in Croatia has no 25 submissions, complaints to the occupier. Very interesting considering everything that's going on out there. When it comes to the ratio of established, unfounded or premature, or incomplete complaints, then this relationship is based on all of these others so somewhere egal is equal to 51:49, or 50:50 almost. So, the citizens of these 1,823 complaints were therefore in, they had, the established complaint was in more than half of them which again says that 912 of the basic complaints was a relatively large number of complaints. There are several segments in which the attorney general is acting and based on which there are complaints. One of them is what has helped me to say to the emigration of Croats, Croatian families from Bosnia and Herzegovina who have moved to Knin and who should be held accountable by the not-in-law, but the Croatian government by its slowness, indecision and inability to resolve the issue of emigrated Croats and their housing care, and you certainly have complaints of such a kind, Mr. Public Prosecutor. DESCRIPTION finally in areas of special state concern and those areas where Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vojvodina, Kosovo finally settled their housing problem. Here, the latest problem is that 30 families from Knin have moved to Canada. Is that so-called. exit policy, very conveniently said, exit policy for Croatians to move from Croatia. So as far as they are so irresponsible, they will be more irresponsible to people, who were first said to be given apartment, support, everything they offer areas of special state concern and now we have a massive phenomenon of emigration of Croats from all areas to overseas countries. On the other hand, some are more equal than others, Mr. Public Attorney, I'd like to ask you if there can be discrimination in Croatia. I think your answer is that it's negative, that there can be no discrimination. However, how to explain that, you yourself have said that there are certain legal provisions and at the speed of ad hoc legal regulations that the European Union has imposed and we here or some here have adopted without much reflection, and then there is a ban on buying apartments and houses for displaced Croats, watch out, in Benkovec, Drniš, Glini, Gospić, Croatia Kostajnica, Knin, Karina upper, Lipik, Novska, Obrovac, Island, Pakrac and Petrinja. Who are houses and apartments reserved for there? For someone else. So which state are we, so who are we here and the Parliament, are we serving the Croatian people? Do we love Croatian people, Croatian citizens? Isn't that just discrimination to which the attorney general should look. To pass legal acts with such provisions. On the other hand, we have a Cyrillic inscription in "News", which we read neatly, so that someone doesn't think that we don't follow and we don't read, which says they're finally leveled right to the apartment. It is said of eastern Slavonia, Vukovar, Osijek, or the rights of refugees, Serbs to come and buy an apartment regardless of the number of family members, apartment of any size. It says nice, I know how to read Cyrillic well. There have been a number of restrictions in the previous acts that have led people of eastern Croatia to an unequal position. According to the new decision, the number of family members is no longer a key criterion for the size of the apartment, i.e. the buy-in square. There, so Croatian legislation, so the Croatian Parliament makes decisions, laws that do these things to the detriment of a large number of Croatian citizens and I can say Croatian nationality. Furthermore, you have here in your report the information that many are complaining or sending you performances in connection with the achievement of citizenship. And that's where it's stuck, and that's where the administrative obstacles are being made, that's what you said and you saw. I don't know who is pushing, whose directives, the European Union or not, to prove by means of a strong implementation of evidence at the Ministry of the Interior that someone who declares that he is a Croat, that he also has Croatian genetics, must prove that he does not have any nationality in his workbook from the former Yugoslavia. We all know that many had to hide their nationality at the time. Unfortunately, I'm saying, it doesn't say you're Croat. So did it come to that? That we don't trust our people? DO NOT allow our people to return, to those who want to at least die here in Croatia, because they cannot get citizenship and you have such complaints to Mr. Public Prosecutor, you have such complaints and the ministries and the Committee on Croatians outside of Croatia and many institutions, but the problem stands in the MUP, and we know that you have such problems and here you have listed where things are slow, where you have brakes, and clearly that your instruments or tools are not those that could be commanding, but that you can only help so much, thank you for that, on behalf of all these people who have filed their claims, on behalf of all these people thank you for this effort you have made in this report and have been properly written and counted to try to initiate what these 923 justified complaints to speed up and achieve their rights, or for which they have complained. Furthermore, when it comes to the pension system, certainly Mr. Public Ombudsman, you know that by 1.1.98, all those who worked in Bosnia and Herzegovina were recognised as working in Croatia. And now people who have worked in Bosnia and Herzegovina and are going to retire no longer have the right to do so. Is that equality legal? Either that one time, or it got rid of one legal provision in '98. and since then, my people have been looking for their documents and work experience, evidence of their employment in BiH or through our service, but it is very slow, therefore, officially through pension insurance for Croatia to seek out their rights and rights that they have achieved in BiH. So there was an inequality, an unequal position of those who retired until 1.1.'98. And those who will retire now or in a year, two, three, five. I especially like the report by the Ombudsman's staff that Mr. Attorney said here that many laws were quickly passed because of the EU directive, and that there was a problem, and that our institutions were unadjusted, and that our legal provisions, our maladjustments, were created, and then the problems that ended with you. And even Mr. Public Attorneys is entitled to access information. Yesterday, I spoke of people asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to get acquainted with Croatia's negotiating positions in negotiations with the EU. It's said you can't get it, it's a secret. Is this an overrun, so a violation of this fundamental right of access to information? I'm asking all of you not just the attorney general. So we have the right to know the Croatian views, not the European views, but the Croatian positions for negotiations with the EU that are just sending us these directives that you have talked about where we speedily pass these laws without respect for Croatian tradition, without respect for Croatian traditional legal solutions, without adapting our institutions and everything else. Regardless of your work and this effort and the report that was properly written by the HDSSB will be to accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74936	We have a correction by Mrs. Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74937	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Grubisic, spoke several times to the Ombudsman in his presentation as public defender. So since the Ombudsman is not responding, which is not true, I do not know if my colleague Grubisic has mixed the role of public defender or social defender of self-government, who has absolutely nothing to do with the role entrusted by the Croatian Parliament to the Ombudsman, and today we are discussing a report by the Ombudsman for 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74938	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74939	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed Ombudsman, respected representatives of the government, state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the HSS Club, we positively hold the strengthening of the role of the Ombudsman, which has been achieved through constitutional changes and its institutional strengthening, which will contribute to the announced accession of the Centre for Human Rights. This will certainly reflect citizens' better information about the Ombudsman's institution, given how the report shows that the problem of under-information of citizens has been observed, since the office is not addressed until years after they have tried to solve some of their problems in vain. In light of this, additional activities should be undertaken on the presence of a public defender in the media. The above-mentioned changes highlighted the proactive role in promoting human rights, and the extended area of action and strengthened powers in protecting the rights and freedom of citizens, and the powers and tasks of the ombudsman will be a precise definition of the new Law on the Ombudsman. The report, which we are discussing, presents the situation as well as the review of data on respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens, and is based on the same methodology as previous years. As in earlier years, the report pays more attention to the attention given to the number of complaints or its importance to the need to invest additional efforts to improve the protection of human rights. It is a matter of legal certainty and equality of citizens, efficiency or urgency, deficiencies in the normative system or its application. Thus, in 2010, a thousand 823 complaints were received, which is for 168 complaints or about 15% more than in 2009, while 576 citizens were admitted to the interview, which is about 150 more than in the previous year. An additional number of queries were received daily via telephone, fax or e-mail. During 2010, there were 2,000 260 cases of which a thousand 823 were newly received complaints, and the complaints of the citizens had the basis as stated primarily in the long-term conduct of the competent authorities. Of these 2,000 260 items, a thousand 698 of which 378 from earlier years or a thousand 320 new cases received in 2010. As long as there's another 562. As in earlier years, a significant part of a thousand 823 new complaints of 386 refer to the judiciary. The complaint in 2010 was largely related to the dissatisfaction and outcomes of court disputes which citizens in their complaints subjectively interpret and experience as a consequence of judicial corruption, which has even led to certain complaints even seeking the intervention of the Ombudsman in order to amend court decisions. The complaints about the length of the proceedings were of a small scale compared to the previous year, and the reason for this is the increase in consumption, the claim for protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time before courts. According to the report, the length of the examination procedures in the office actually depends on the duration of the procedure of the competent authorities, so it concerns the fact that some procedures last for more than 10 years. This indicates, among other things, the problem of the unscheduledness of the competent authorities in responding to the requests of the Advocate General, and in 257 cases it was necessary to refer from one to five rushes in order for the demonstration to arrive even though the 30-day legal period was 30 days. In connection with complaints relating to reconstruction in the war-torn houses, housing care, and the return of temporary property from the items received in 2010, 153 of which 94 were related to reconstruction, 50 to housing care and 9 to the return of temporary property. Most of the complaints concerned the longevity of the housing procedure, disrespect, non-transparentity of the list of housing championships, irregularities and a lack of housing conditions in the dwellings provided for in the care. We believe that the good news, positive news that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at its 106th session on 3 February 2011, adopted the Regulation on conditions for the purchase of a family home or a state-owned apartment in areas of special state care, allowing residents to care for housing in cities and municipalities in the area of Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja County to purchase them under certain conditions and at a cost of up to 25 years. It is estimated that some 2800 houses and apartments will be sold from 2011 to 2013. In addition, in March 2011, the government made a decision on the housing of returnees and former tenants outside the area of special state care enabling them to obtain the status of the tenant on state-owned dwellings and their purchase. The European Commission's 2010 Progress Report also mentions progress in rebuilding the war on damaged houses. During 2010, a public defender was filed 217 complaints against persons deprived of freedoms, almost the same number as in 2009 when 213 complaints were filed, and the occupier reviewed prisons in Sisak, Rijeka, Pula and Karlovac, as well as penitentiary offices in Glina and Lepoglav where it was found that the overcrowding which is the main generator is the threat or violation of the rights of persons deprived of liberty was further increased. After reviewing the conditions of accommodation in penitentiary and prisons, the Ombudsman determined that there are no adequate conditions for the accommodation and maintenance of the prison of persons with physical disability who need a wheelchair to move. We are also bound by international commitments, and should therefore, as soon as possible, ensure a reasonable adjustment for the accommodation of people with disabilities. 21 complaints were received from the area of residential relations during 2010. The complaint is generally made by those citizens who have not yet exercised their right to an apartment resulting from bankruptcy rights. It is the rights under the Law on Housing Relations and the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there is a household right, the right to second appropriate apartment to use and to exercise the right to purchase an apartment. The increased number of complaints in 2010 were also filed by local officials of the local and regional self-government authorities, and infringements of the rights that are referred to are increasingly illegal changes in the structure of employees in administrative bodies, especially after local elections and changes in the political option in power, i.e. other political or party commitment of the established officials. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club believe that laws must and should be implemented. Otherwise, there is a violation of the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies with public authority. However, it should be pointed out, for example, that the implementation of the Implementing Law has also led to an intrusion into the social income system, since it is also happening to be carried out over personal persons with disabilities, social assistance, and even child benefits that we think is not right and not acceptable. We therefore believe that more consistent implementation of certain laws is needed to protect the most vulnerable social groups, but also restore citizens' confidence in our institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74940	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that at 15.35, it's past 10 minutes' notice. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74941	The Honorable President, the Attorney General with his team, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the fact is that last year's change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia highlighted the pro-active role of the occupier in promoting human rights and strengthened the powers of the Ombudsman in the protection of citizens' rights. But I believe that the finals are partly exaggerated because there is not enough argument to make so many critical conclusions and assessments as if they were written by someone from the Kukuriku coalition. To question the quality of all the laws that have been a condition for the closure of certain chapters in negotiations with the European Union and to raise those who have been criticising everything that this government has done well for years, I do not think it is correct. According to some catastropheists, Croatia had already had a financial and economic breakdown, it was already supposed to be the International Monetary Fund in Croatia, and it was actually supposed to discipline workers now. The report shows that 189 workers were requested from the area of employment and service in public services by the Ombudsman in 2010. The complaints relate most to the non-resuming of work contracts for a certain period of time, non-payment of salaries, severance, jubilee awards, non-payment of salaries during temporary inability to work particularly in public services, complaints were also related to employment irregularities, wages paid for the convalitated internship, mobbing etc. All of these complaints were submitted by the Ombudsman to the competent authorities or institutions to the competent authorities. Unfortunately, sometimes problems arise even where they should not be as in the above example of recognising a convaled job internship, in a working internship for which workers earn increased salaries of 0.5% for each completed year of work. The problems arise when the commission for interpreting collective agreements for officials and public servants gave an interpretation contrary to previous interpretation, but it is not the government's fault, it is not the state's fault, it is not the ministry's fault. The Ministry of Health and Social Welfare has requested this commission, and we know who is doing this commission, to review its interpretation so that those workers are not damaged, given that the interpretation of the commission has legal power as well as the effects of the collective contract. The report also stressed the unfair, illegal, and I will also add immoral conversion and privatisation from which some have exploited themselves, to the harm of the workers, and therefore I fully agree, but it could also be stressed in this report that this government has proposed to the Croatian Parliament to vote for the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that this crime done through privatisation should not become obsolete, and that all those involved in this crime in me should not have a peaceful dream. It also mentions policy and corruption, and it would be good to emphasize what this government has done and is doing to curb corruption, which unfortunately is spreading in Croatia, has an epidemic scale. But there is no country in the world where there is no corruption, unfortunately no country in the world has been able to eradicate it, but normally I think it should positively assess everything that seems that this corruption in Croatia is finally trying to contain. And I don't think you should hide it then. I think those positive sides would be nice to point out as well. But what's there is. I agree that the Attorney General must be critical of anyone who threatens the rights of citizens in any way, but must also be objective, i.e. know how to criticize, but also praise what is positive. Finally, I will also agree that many complaints of citizens were on the work and operation of municipal services, and not only those mentioned in the report of water and sewage, cemeteries etc., e.g. in the town of Zagreb, Zagrebparking has been suppressing drivers for years by charging parking spaces either in garages or public areas and no one. Prices are determined by the eye, depending on how much money they need, for a minute over the paid hour, a new watch is charged, and so they steal citizens and no one stops that rape of Zagrebparking. But this is just one example, I believe that there are still a lot of such examples in certain units of local self-government, so ultimately it would be good for the future report, or for the public defender to prepare for the emergence of discrimination in 2010, to pay a little more attention to the units of local self-government, and to the problems of the citizens they are dealing with and meeting there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74942	Thank you. Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74943	Thank you, Your Honor. It is interesting that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in its opinion on the 2010 report on the work of the Ombudsman, which counts even 17 pages, does not actually give an opinion on the report, but only comments and comments on some of the chapters of the report. After such an exhaustive document, I repeat page 17, everyone would expect the government to eventually say whether or not it accepts a report, whether it takes it to knowledge or something else, but the government's side is under silence. I associate this silence with the European Union's demands to strengthen the institution of the Ombudsman, i.e. with the government's caution to take note, or by failing to accept the report, do not mind the European bureaucracy, which is alertly looking at all the government's actions in the area of the famous chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental human rights. Unfortunately this tactics and... Activating enthusiasm for respect for the rule of law and human rights is also evident from the way the government plans to strengthen the institution of the Ombudsman, not by acting according to the report and correcting the deformities in the system, which is what the European Union and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia expect from the government, but by joining other defences, the one for gender equality, children and persons with disabilities, the Office of the Ombudsman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we see here in action the same mechanism instead of the naked form content. And this report is just like previous reports defeating the government, and generally state institutions, and therefore it is no wonder that the government did not give a positive opinion on the report, because this would mean admitting that it is doing a bad job, which it does not want or even cannot, again because of the European Union. It is unfortunate that the government cares more about what European bureaucrats think of it, not what the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia think of it and its work. I will specifically refer to some parts of the report, which have been particularly in my eyes, and this refers in particular to page 5 which says, so the conclusion is that the situation is worse than the previous years, and that the fact that the Croatian Assembly 3 has not accepted the latest annual reports has just been taken into account. In addition, these data throws a negative picture on the state apparatus, because if a public defender as a powerholder of the Croatian Parliament cannot access the requested data, it is clear that citizens are even more difficult to communicate with the competent authorities in trying to solve their problem. It is terrible that in Croatia even a public defender cannot always get information from the public authority, because then we can only think with horror about how citizens are just passing through. It is absolutely true that the failure to accept the report in the last 3 years by the Parliament has contributed greatly to such a negative and marked deterioration of the situation, as it thus tells ministers and state appliances that they can ignore the Ombudsman, and that is just terrible. On page 49 of the report, which discusses the conduct of police officers, the Ombudsman speaks about it, in fact on page 49 and 50, about how the police are using their powers in principle in dealing with citizens, and I will remind you that such practice has been recorded during 2010. And here I primarily think of the excessive use of force towards peaceful and passive protesters and protests against the usurpation of the public area to build a garage, or access to the garage in Warsaw, or Horvatinčić's garage when police unnecessarily arrested hundreds of people. And who should be controlling police actions now? Internal Affairs, the principal's office? Well, that's just funny, and it's justifiable whether the commission will be able to act, or whether it will be established just for the sake of it. And this is also an absolutely accurate observation of the attorney general. Unfortunately, police actions in recent months, or the last month, have made it very clear how politicised police in Croatia are in the service of the ruling political option. The latest finding that police director Oliver Grbic should not go on a polygraph regarding cases of false charges against political competitors best says how depolitised the police are in a state of internal control to control themselves. And finally, something very sad, precisely and at the same time worrying conclusion or the finding of the Ombudsman on page 159, which I quote: "The dissatisfaction exists because of the belief that not everyone is equal to the law and that the impunity and disorder in administrative resolution and judicial proceedings without sufficient control and supervision enables arbitration and bargaining where those who have the possibility of influence and also the money achieve their interests faster and easier, often at the expense of the weak and poor, and at the expense of public interest." And later, I quote on page 160. "They are superficial and harmful, and above all demotive assessments and statements from official and highest national circles, as at the level of achieving and protecting human rights of the Republic of Croatia at the very top of Europe and in the world." Such assessments are also a reflection of the alarming lack of sense of reality, of the real picture of the difficult situation of a large number of citizens, as well as of the most vulnerable categories of people whose social and other rights are at risk not only because of the crisis and indifference but also because of the poor functioning of the administrative and judicial authorities most invited to ensure and protect those rights where necessary. It is not the real state of human rights to assess only on the basis of the progress made in harmonising laws and other rules with the acquis of the EU and the requirements of accession negotiations because the gap between normative and real is obvious and excessive. And with this quote from the report, I return to that initial idea from my debate, which is that the government is acting as a responsible authority in front of EU bodies, and does not understand the need for its own transformation to meet the needs for justice and equality in front of the law of its own citizens and citizens. I would be happy to accept this report from the occupier because it is realistically and courageously and congratulating the occupancy of the occupancy in a very difficult way, so I would also say the hostile conditions of the ruling majority that is visible and I am afraid in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74944	Thank you. We have replicas. First Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74945	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues, Holly, and here we discussed yesterday Croatian membership as an observer in the EU Agency for the Protection of Fundamental Rights. It may be an reinforcement to the gentleman's occupier, but also since the government refused a report by the occupier, I don't know if it can refuse any such reports by the Agency for the Protection of Fundamental Rights where we are as observers and at a price of 500 000 euros or half a million euros by 2013. The Attorney General is a lot, much less expensive. Furthermore, when you spoke of overworking police in Cvjetno, or in Warsaw, then I must add that yesterday I was before the Criminal Court in Zagreb where 5 Croatian defenders, therefore who were removed, were brought from Mark's square here in front of the Parliament because they wanted to pray, not demonstrate, pray for our generals, for Croatia. They responded yesterday at the Criminal Court in Zagreb, I don't know what penalties were imposed, but here's what I have to say as one of the police methods that have been applied. You can see for yourself that the Ombudsman himself said that there is speculation about whether or not the Centre for Human Rights will join the Office of the Police Attorney's Office, but here is the EU Agency for Fundamental Human Rights we brought yesterday, discussed it, and at a price of half a million euros we introduce something like that. So I wonder if the government will reject the conclusions of these EU agencies as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74946	Mrs. Mirela Holly's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74947	Dear counterpart Grubisic, so I realized from the presentation of the Ombudsman's staff that the criteria do not say that it is a duty to connect the offices of other lawyers, means the prosecutor for gender equality, the prosecutor for children and the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities with the Office of the Public Attorney's Office, but that it is a duty to join the Centre for Human Rights with the Office of the Police Attorney and to strengthen the powers of the attorney-general. Because it is not an important form but rather a matter of content and whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of a report submitted by the Ombudsman each year, submits to the Assembly certain steps that are necessary to correct the deformations in the system. We see from year to year that this does not seem to be done, it is seen at the end and from the fact that the ruling majority of 3 years in a row did not accept the report, i.e. it only took note of it, which actually ignores the Ombudsman and does not recognise that there are some very large problems in the system, i.e. that the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia is really worrying, and not as some senior government officials claim to be in very good condition.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74948	Thank you. We have another replica, Mr. Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74949	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Holly, by joining you in your commendation for the report by the Attorney General, I will refer to your opening section, which you refer to as the Government's 17-page opinion, which is more of an indication by paragraphs than an opinion, does not really give a final assessment. But it is very interesting that this opinion and those opinions, back two years ago, become one interesting reading with a report by the Ombudsman, and this time we have an interesting fact that in conclusion of this opinion there are as many as 9 ministers, with two vice-presidents, 12 state secretaries and 5 directors from the ministries who will be present at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies, probably to explain some things. Like all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I would be happier and happier if the ministries and administrations of the ministries were to do their job in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to reduce the number of complaints to the Ombudsman and to make such opinions immaterial and to be much shorter and to result in some sort of assessment. That is the only way I believe that the state of human rights in Croatia would certainly be better. And as for the association of defenders and the reduction that you have said a few sentences about, I believe that, apart from human rights, there are many more areas in which it can be saved in the Republic of Croatia, that human rights are the last to be implemented in some rationalization, savings and such things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74950	Thank you, Mrs. Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74951	My dear colleague, I think that this opinion of the Government is a little different from the previous opinions of the Government, not only did the government not indicate this at this time that it accepts, or takes note of this Report, but also because, unlike the previous opinions of the Government, the Government has stated here some of its intentions to respond positively to some of the allegations of the Ombudsman, which in some way admitted that there are certain problems within the system and that these problems need to be solved. It's just a question, as far as overstepping police powers are concerned, whether it's just going to be forms for what we're all afraid of, or whether it's going to be really and content-type. I am afraid that there will be no substantive type because, ultimately, we can read more about the government's lack of respect for the government's institutions towards the institution of the occupier, but the reason that the government is taxing with this opinion because of the closure of the famous chapter 23 and that it is afraid that with some kind of different and more severe assessments of this report, it could complicate itself the situation and it's really sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74952	And we continue with the session, with the debate on the point Report on the work of the Attorney General, so now it's Mrs. Nadica Jelash's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74953	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. So we see from the Ombudsman's report that in 2010, the Office of the Ombudsman received 1823 new complaints, which is 10% more than in 2009, with the fact that even more dynamic increases in the number of citizens who had personally joined the Ombudsman's office by 36% and the large number of questions received from the Office daily and via telephone, fax and e-mail, so we can say in one word that the volume of work of the Ombudsman's staff is dynamically increasing and that in itself is symptomatic. The majority of complaints by citizens continue to refer to ineffectiveness, long-term conduct before the competent authorities, with the judiciary leading in 2010 the same way as in a number of previous years. The total number of complaints received against the judiciary is 386 or 21%. Or we can say every fifth complaint goes to the address of the judiciary. And there are no significant changes, no progress, no increased awareness despite the fact that even the amendments to the rules are part of the case segregated from the jurisdiction of the court and transferred for example to public records such as executions and leaves. However, and so relieved the judiciary unfortunately did not become more effective. As a result of determined infringements under the requirements for trial within a reasonable period of time, there was a huge payment of civil and criminal cases, and more than 35 million kuna was paid out of the state budget in 2010. It's absurd that the state register is filled with citizens right now, so it turns out that through citizens' compensation, they pay additionally for the ineffectiveness of the judiciary, and it's actually one sad truth about justice and justice in a Croatian way, which is more inaccessible, it's actually more expensive. Furthermore, I must say that I am inadmissible to this one one, I could almost say in the end by underestimating the government's position and then by the majority in the Croatian Assembly, according to a report by the Ombudsman, which is apparent in the fact that the report by the Ombudsman is only being taken into account, and not that it is given an opinion or an expressive view, whether it is positive or negative. It is clear that the most important reason for such a government relationship is, in a clearly stated view of the Ombudsman, that it is an important factor in the quality of the trial, and then trust in the judiciary in general, in the fact that judges continue to be named according to political criteria, similarity or belonging to stakeholders rather than according to the criteria of expertise, ability and independence. In doing so, I personally support the attorney general's claim that some of the responsibility for the poor situation in the judiciary is borne by good judges. This sounds a bit contradictory, but the fact is that most professional, capable and independent judges are still not functioning within the system so that no candidates who do not meet the necessary quality standards of discretion and impartiality are chosen when appointing or advancement is made. I also fully agree with the Ombudsman's position on how the state of human rights in Croatia is assessed in official and state-of-the-art circles. It is true that such assessments are a reflection of the lack, better said the Ombudsman's absence as he says, so I will quote him "feelings about the reality of the difficult situation of a large number of citizens whose social rights are at risk not only of a difficult economic situation but also of the non-function of administrative and judicial institutions whose primary task is to ensure and protect citizens' rights". It is not good when the human rights situation is assessed only on the basis of the progress made in harmonising the rules with the EU acquis because we all know the gap between the normative and real in Croatia is indeed huge. It was often more important to meet the formal obligation of law-making without real intention to comply with the law. In any event, the Government should rise above the behaviour of the offended friar and give up its attempt to deny, in its opinion, the report of the occupier, and should abandon the practice of ignoring and demeaning the views and suggestions of the Ombudsman, as the ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, and the Assembly should not take the view of the Government but should already express its position on the basis of respecting the opinion of its working bodies. Discussing here today in the Assembly on the report of the Ombudsman, all who have participated in the debate have pointed out that the largest number of complaints by citizens relate to the long-standing conduct before the competent authorities, so we have warned against the failure of the competent authorities. However, it is possible to read from this report that neither the government itself nor the resolute ministries in this story are without sin, nor could they be called because of the longevity of conduct or because of inaction. I'll only give two examples here, although there are far more in the report itself. The first concerns the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. In 2008, in the Law on the Protection of Patients, the Constitutional Court abolished a provision on a legal basis that the patient can exercise protection of his rights. This remedy was an oral or written complaint to the person responsible in the particular health care facility. The Constitutional Court abolished the complaint because it estimated that it was not an effective legal means of achieving the constitution of a guaranteed right to health care. And although the Ombudsman has asked for an urgent addition of the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights to an effective remedy, patients have not yet been adopted because of the failure or inaction of the Government or the Resoring Ministry cannot consume the protection of their rights. The second case relates to the need to bring the responsibilities of the Ombudsman in line with last year's amendments to the Constitution and to align with the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination as well as the Law on a National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and Other Cruel and Inhuman and Demeaning Procedures and Penalty. Therefore, although the amendment of the constitutional provision has actually enabled the Ombudsman to address the courts directly for questioning, to examine the complaints of the citizens on the work of the courts, this possibility cannot be used in practice because a new Law on the Ombudsman has not yet been adopted, which would precisely determine the jurisdiction of the Advocate General in relation to the courts. Therefore, it is necessary to lay down all the necessary regulations that I have spoken of here and to create assumptions that the vacancy attorney can do even better his mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74954	Thank you. Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74955	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am going to take a quick look at this report. First of all, I think you've done this report very extensively and in detail and I can commend it. This report shows that the attorney general, and what I particularly commend, has been working well with all other specialised lawyers, so the lawyer with the disabled, the child lawyer and the lawyer for gender equality, especially in the part of the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. At the beginning of this report, many colleagues have already mentioned it, but I will repeat that during 2010 there were 2 thousand 260 cases in the staff attorney's office, of which was newly received in 2010, a thousand 823. When you look further, in these table views, then you can see it's for example. of objects which have been solved by them by a thousand 281, whether about half-half, half-founded and half unfounded or premature or incomplete. In all, it seems to me that this is not such a large number of new cases, most of course according to the Ombudsman in the report, the increase is in the area of justice. The Ombudsman pointed out at the outset that during 2010, the requested response was not delivered for even a few months, so from those institutions which were requested by the Ombudsman, so he had to write up to 5 rushes. He also says that it is the cause of such a difficult situation, that it is not easy to determine the cause, but that it was also influenced by the fact that the Croatian Parliament did not accept the three latest reports, but only took them into account. Somehow, it seems to me that the fact that the Croatian Parliament has accepted a report from the Ombudsman should not, that there is no reason that some bodies do not respond at the time, let them probably not at all, and some should not in time for the lawyer’s enquiries. In any case, I think it is everyone's duty to answer the lawyer's question as well as the other attorneys, since they certainly didn't think to ask a question without reason. Furthermore, I think that the Attorney General has worked out very well and in detail even individual cases, in every area. They clearly show what areas these are, i.e. specific cases where citizens were not satisfied with the exercise of their rights, and when it comes to the judiciary, we see that a large number of requests were sent to the Advocate General, and that, if possible, he would change judicial decisions, so from those people who were not satisfied with the end of the proceedings they were conducting. This isn't just the case with the attorney general, and I've read something like this in the D.A.'s report on people with disabilities, so citizens when they end the dispute, and his outcome is not satisfied, so they're probably trying to make every possible decision differently, to their satisfaction. But here's what I'm going to touch for a little while here, and these are some final evaluations of the attorney general, which I have to say, some of my colleagues have already mentioned here today, and I remember that last year we discussed and warned about that part, and that's precisely what I mean by the fact that here's the attorney general talking about judges who were appointed by political criteria, similarity or belonging to interest groups, these judges, of course, are the cause of the decline in the quality of the trial and even more fall in respect of the reputation of the judicial profession. I'm sorry that this is in the report, but if it's true, if the Attorney General has knowledge of such judges who are appointed under such conditions, then I'm expressing my regret in some way why something has not been done and initiated, how can we be sure that it's true, and I don't want to say that I don't trust the Attorney General, but if that's true then these are serious things. Croatia started with the reform of the judiciary in 2005, and I think that we made a really big step here, at the end of the day when this would be true, then I can still ask one question as to how we might be able to thank God before the conclusion of the negotiations with the European Union, especially in Chapter 23, and if this were true, this would certainly be an obstacle to the closure of the chapter, so it seems to me that this finding might have been more detailed and perhaps we, too, should be familiar with this. Furthermore, the Ombudsman said in the report that neither the majority of professional, capable and independent judges had done enough to elect changes within the system so as to create conditions and mechanisms in order to remove judges who do not meet the necessary standards of urgency, quality and impartiality from the system. I am now asking a question here, and what is it with all these other judges who are therefore appointed according to all the regulations and rules? So is it possible that all our judges are so inert that they haven't done anything and that they wouldn't mind knowing that there are judges who are named by political resemblance? So I'm not inclined to believe that all of this could be true. I believe that our judges and I know enough judges who are honest people, who do their job responsibly and knowingly. So it seems to me that this grade is very flat and that it was not meant to be placed in the report without them being supported. And I'm saying if that were true, then that would be a serious problem. There are other situations I'd like to look back on here, but here's the time running out, so let me just say in one sentence, Mr. Vice President, that's what I'm going to do. The attorney general here also looked back here on a part of the children with developmental difficulties, that is, their parents who make four hours of work, so half of their working time because of the child's care with severe developmental disorders, the problem of their pensions, their fees, etc. I would like to say that here is the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support, and that part has been improved, solved. Of course, research and analysis are being conducted at the moment and in this area as well as how this problem is fully and adequately addressed to the general satisfaction of both parents and children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74956	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ratko Gajica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74957	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'll briefly promise to say something less about content, and more about how we're setting ourselves up according to the Attorney General's Report. And now I need to say a few of the following things. I think that the attorney general consistently and consistently points to problems in the functioning of the rule of law mechanism, in respect of the law and in violation of citizens' rights with concrete examples, situations, occurrences of violations of citizens' rights. That's the thing, that's the scope that's important to this House, which is important from the point of view that we need to give it the proper attention and it's important for the evaluation that the attorney general, if I may say so, is aiming at the center. It's aimed at what's particularly important. If we could somehow put these reports together by the attorney general in the last few years and all this time since Mr. Malcic's team is in that role, then I could say that, according to my assessment, they offer a catalogue of social problems that come to us in social practice. A catalogue of problems that are often repeated, problems that are related to fundamental rights in real life and problems that are again very well illustrated for my assessment. That means there's no doubt that's exactly how it is. And now it seems to me that this report and a series of reports offered by the Ombudsman in this House is exactly an opportunity to draw out this conditionally stated catalogue of a question that needs to be paid particular attention to things that are socially and extremely sensitive. I mention it because it seems to me that our relationship to the work of the occupier and our relationship to what it says in the report or reports so far has somehow not been at that level and I think it's a shame. How do we deal with this, from experiences that can also be drawn within a range of years? Last year, and it seems to me before that we began to take note of these reports. I don't dispute that and it's a legitimate formulation, but since it's important things, things in real life, things that are on the shoulders of ordinary world, then we'd have to see whether or not it is. That means either what it says in the Attorney General's report or it's not true because if we set ourselves up with this model, then I don't care what it says. I know it's a rough wording, but the matter the attorney general is talking about with all the disputes is actually true or doesn't deserve such an indifferent attitude. We need to see if it is or isn't, and if it isn't, then we'll figure it out. And if so, then we must also determine ourselves. Why do I think that's important? So, this attitude is important and I stand for it. With an indifferent attitude, we are missing the opportunity to correct the system in dealing with citizens. Because that's exactly what the attorney general says, in his dealings with the citizens, the system has fellers and violates their rights. Secondly, we miss the opportunity to pay attention to the real problems of an ordinary man, we live in time and in circumstances that are most difficult to an ordinary man and that the one who is the most indisposed and at least we here have no right to put ourselves undefined. Furthermore, we are missing the opportunity to keep our focus on respecting human rights. We are still a society in which it is still vulnerable, in which respect for human rights is a matter we must talk about and to which we must pay particular attention. Finally, the opportunity to regulate society in the most practical way is missed. Because what he's saying to the occupier and solving the problem he's pointing to is the best possible way to better edit our society. So I will conclude in the following way because I have decided that this story of my relationship with this report will be the subject of my attention today alone and I will conclude in a way that my position is if we take note of this year's report by the attorney general and there is a sign that this would go in that direction, then in my opinion it means that we ignore what's inside. I hope it's not literally like that and hopefully the conclusion will be different. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74958	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74959	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General with his associates. Here's the report that says that one part of the problem is in the work exactly the unsupervisedness of the competent authorities to answer your questions. Of course it's 30 days and it's been more than that you didn't get answers to. This was related to the central state property management office, to several ministries and also to local self-government units. At the same time, however, you do not get answers from the ministry, but at the same time the minister reacts when he worries that the other lawyer reacts to the children, or argues that it is inappropriate to save on the child’s health, then he doubts that it has even come from some other centres, even to you, and that’s why he is talking to you. It cannot be reacted to, and you rarely get those answers within some deadlines even through deadlines. Therefore, the situation in these reports shows that it is worse than the previous years, I stressed how you get an answer, and what citizens can. I can create a negative picture of the state apparatus precisely because they are aware that if you can't come as an institution to answer how they will with their problems. Under the current Law, I will read Article 2 which defines the Ombudsman is independent and independent in his work, no one should give him orders for his work, and then it is no wonder that today we have seen your report affect many. That because you are critical and your report does not respond to many, it continues to say that the Ombudsman is acting within the framework of constitutional and legal provisions and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia. That's exactly why I'm wondering why you're not being trusted. I'm sure it's because you're critical and you don't belong to anyone. It also writes further that the Ombudsman is obliged in his work to stick to the principle of justice and morality, and I believe you are doing so. Today we heard that your reports were unargumented, exactly what was said, and that part where you said that the political authority did not give up the inappropriate influence on the judiciary, it was actually about staffing and appointing, improving judges, members of the State Judicial Council, etc. However, the information is available, it is available on the website of the State Judiciary Council, which we have read. It is clear that both the President of the High Court of Commerce and the President of the Judicial Council have submitted a request for the annulment of the decision to appoint judges. It was not chosen by the criteria, or points, how they went, but by the criteria known to me, I wonder who. Therefore, there were many complaints in the last elections, complaints, and we also heard that if we accepted such a report then it would mean that we were in agreement. You might think about hurting other judges, and that's said somewhere, but if it's about my resort of parenting, about health care, and if it's about corruption in health, it doesn't mean that it offends all of us. I'm actually up for it to see what it is, to get rid of it to get rid of it if it exists. You can see from this report, Mr. Public Attorney, that you actually understand the circumstances in which social care and family protection work. This set of examples of irregularities primarily the Centre for Social Care shows several facts, and that is that the welfare system has actually turned into a large bureaucratic machine and has become its own purpose. We have passed, a new Social Care Act has been passed, but I don't think I know how this problem can be solved. We also have complaints from the doctors of family medicine and their associations, and they refer to the measures of reform of primary health care and, most often, to remarks about concession fees, fees where there are various disputes about it. Then infringements of patients' rights to confidentiality of data relating to their health by introducing a central health care system for Croatia. I'd like to mention one case, which is when your mother came to you for violation of the right to health care of her child suffering from autism. There was talk of dental protection. There are only two teams in Croatia that are trained to provide dental protection and waiting lists are very long. You asked the Ministry to give you an answer. In response, it is said that data on spatial capacity is collected, equipment data are collected, specialists doctors, the organisation of the term, but we hear it very much. I discussed this subject last year, and in direct contact with the complainant, it was responsible that a term was found for this child. That child put in, say, through a relationship and writes the outcome of the case successful. It may be the case, yes, but there are still cases that have not spoken to you, which will address you. And that's basically your report where we can always see the problem we have to work on and accept that it's a problem. And, of course, parents who take care of such children and their children with severe developmental disorders should be positively discriminated against. You have also been increasingly addressed by citizens with complaints or submissions asking the question and praying for advice on what to do when they have over money, in fact it is an incursion in the social income system very often. We wonder whether this whole law is, or whether they have met citizens about taking over their obligations, too, on the consequences of the application of such a law. Even citizens cannot find out either in FINA or in a bank over which assets of business entities or for which their debts are suspended from their bank accounts. You know they have to pay about 40, 50 grand to get that information. Even if it is the case for citizens, they have been charged with the bill with debts for HRT fees or an account for VIP services, however, they were not then provided with solutions by the public notary of performance and thus do not have the right to appeal and objections. The minister recently announced that he would take all measures, but our citizens still have to pay those 40, 50 kn to get the information. And no wonder. You emphasized, and I think we all agree, that the circle of the most endangered is growing, is small incomes. The conclusion shows that sin structures are not a matter of the past privatisation but of the fact that the foothold is now. I must say that your report is realistic and that we all need to understand that we all need to react faster. I'm going to compare this with a medical language to say that a history is made, diagnostics are also possible, but by ignoring this diagnosis and all these findings, I don't think we can decide this way and the disease continues to spread and the disease remains a sick society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74960	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74961	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General with his associates. Your report here, which you have provided for us on your work, is not only a matter of statistics, as we often see in individual reports, but it is simply in this report that all the troubles of Croatian citizens, all those who have been disproved for those who were obliged to protect them, are being drawn up. And that, sir, is what you and your associates are doing quietly, painfully and persistently. In this way you prove yourself to be a moral vertical in Croatia, as Don Quiote of our days, as a hero of our age. Not because such people are not in Croatia. There are few but there are and Croatia is proud of them. And that's why you've been a public defender for years not reaching out to those who are obstructing you, who are receiving your report rather than taking it as a help to do what needs to be done, because even a small part of what you've drawn almost in your report would have been easier for everyone. Not only would the citizens, but the government would certainly prove more successful. But unfortunately, it didn't happen until today. Just because we're about to close chapter 23, here's the luck of the accident is that this opinion that has as many as 17 pages given by the government is talking about some kind of statistical data and it's as if in some way a parallel path persists where, without denying your findings, it's talking about some own knowledge of the same problems. Almost in such a way, he wants to mitigate what you have found but he is not directly opposed to you because of the delicateness of the situation in which Croatia is currently located. Well, then we don't have the conclusion that it's being taken into account, or that it's being accepted. And the government, therefore, shows a little wisdom, and then she would take your opinion, and she would write it with a saying, both in knowledge and in law, so what should be done next. Our commitment to the amendments to the Constitution by the SDP club was precisely to valorize to a greater extent and to raise the status of the Advocate General, not for the sake of the Advocate General himself, for his own protection, but precisely because of the function that he has under the Constitution and the law of the sea and which he is carrying out, i.e. to protect citizens from the will of the government and against the will of the public authority and the level of any level. ... In doing so, however, just such success is often shown as Pir’s victory the Constitution is in force, but the law has not yet revived. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a real shame, and I think that the question, especially in this I say, at this time of Croatia's accession to the European Union and that the trust of Croatians, i.e. Croatian citizens, would be as effective as possible, and in order to achieve the greatest percentage and referendum on accession, Croatian citizens would have to be convinced that, above all, the Croatian government is showing itself effective to protect them as a national state in order to protect them as well as in the community with the European Union countries, with the members of the European Union then, and even on the trail and the Lisbon Treaty, more advocated for their own citizens, which is precisely an accent in the European Union. Because we are as successful as our government will succeed, even tomorrow when we are a country of the European Union. That's why not all our problems are solved, but new commitments have arisen. Why am I saying this? Because trust in institutions is very important. Institutions cannot operate without trust, and Croatian citizens do not trust institutions. And for what? Because of all this stuff that the Attorney General found. Speaking of administration, the administration is very important, almost more important than the judiciary itself, because everything that hasn't been carried out by the administration is being overrun later on by the judiciary itself and burdening the judiciary itself. For this reason, the attorney general with great caution, but also tireless, therefore decent man but tireless and inexorable when it comes to defending human rights, speaks exactly what problems citizens face with the Croatian administration. When the government is manifested in that segment, it has been potent here several times, so we don't have enough resources, so we don't have enough personnel, so we don't have enough space, so it's a good part and the truth, it's always a lack and financial resources, and I agree with that, and it's never been good enough for Croatia that it's always had enough resources to meet all such needs, but where there's a will, there's a way. When Croatia cared about some institutions as it cared about the institution of FINA and the institution of the financial police, funds and buildings were found overnight, and all exposures were more or less equipped. So when she cares, when she's there, because she needs those institutions that are going to attract money from the citizens, and when institutions need it to serve the citizens, then there's no means to do so. Well, it's normal for people to see it at the beginning, people see it and people feel it, but then such one excuse that the government finds is essentially a recognition of their own irresponsibleness, but the government sees it as if such a problem came from itself, because Croatia found itself in a constellation I don't know between Pluto and I don't know which other celestial body. Because he doesn't know his own responsibility. And often the government says the situation is what it is. She's the way she made her. But what the attorney general specifically warns about, and what is the unquestionable truth, and what has nothing to do with even these material assets and equipment that almost all institutions crave, which is a violation of these rights, a violation of rights, so those who are obliged to protect the rights of citizens. So it's often the government takes it as if it's politicizing, it's not politicizing, it's helping the government to see in which segment its apparatus isn't effective, because that's how the government itself is blasphemed. And any government can think of itself as it pleases, but as successful as its administration is, that is. The administration, even more important than the judiciary, because it is under its direct, direct authority, shows how successful it itself is and how far the laws that are passed and can be implemented. When we talk about a problem that seemingly may not be so burdensome for citizens, but which should be spoken regardless of the popularity of this topic as one country is a legal country, and as much as the rights and freedoms of citizens are respected, this is seen in persons deprived of freedom. The problem that the Ombudsman spoke of often, noting that it was a security problem for Croatia, the Croatian government did not take seriously, so it was a serious problem, when the Ombudsman spoke about the overcrowding of our penal system, whether it was laws or penitentiary, when he spoke about the alarming state, when it was up to 100 to 120% of the transfer. The problem has grown to this extent that we now have more than 200% of the pre-opulation in fully closed institutions. And now the question is, is it possible to conduct any excessive treatment of such persons? And how many of those international conventions that we have signed, which we have passed, are all those laws that we have brought under these conventions. So, at this point in time, we have little in the legislative sense that we have something to change, but we have what we can do to make these laws live to the joy of everyone. And often there are no serious difficulties and obstacles not to do so, but it does not seem to be, and this is precisely the attitude that the government has for the attorney general. The big problem is working relationships, and work and labour protection problems. It's our domestic problem we haven't solved yet. Here's the SDP club and proposed the Labour Courts Act, which was also the government's commitment to trade unions, there's still no speech about it even though it's on the agenda. Or it was often talked about, here's just one more sentence, about the communist kidnapping that we all agreed with, the property was taken away, and the Law on the return of property seized during the Yugoslav communist rule was passed, and the protagonist for 2010 is that today's empowerment is being carried out, and in particular... I know what case it's about, so I recognized it, it's about Zadar taking away property from people without a solution, and without any compensation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today in the 21st century, after a great condemnation of what the former system was doing, but unfortunately some methods remain today and that is something that is unforgivable. Here, I suggest that the government think carefully about this report and if there is any courage and reason to take seriously not only the knowledge but also the alignment of the report on the work of the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74962	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mrs. Representative Ana Lovirn.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74963	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President is an incorrect allegation, and the case to which Mrs. Anticevic-Marinovic is alluding leaves an unsettled impression that property is being seized in Zadar today without a solution or compensation. It's simply incorrect. It is property seized, nationalised, deposited and paid during the Yugoslav communist rule, so during the socialist arrangement in Croatia and Yugoslavia. And today it's all done neatly in land books that the former socialist community didn't do when it was meant to.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74964	Thank you. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74965	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. A report on the work for last year delivered to us by the Ombudsman, I would say that it is high-quality, extensive and constructed according to the usual methodology. It consists of three parts, a presentation of the situation, a review of the information on respect for constitutional, legal provisions of the legal rights of citizens, and an assessment of the state and proposals of the Ombudsman to the Croatian Parliament. The paper says that 1,823 cases were received in 2010 which was more than 168 complaints in 2009, while 576 citizens were admitted to the interview in the office, and a large number of questions were received by telephone, fax. If this adds to a lagging number of objects, a number of 2 260 items shall be reached. This report therefore makes it very clear that the institution of the occupier is being affirmed year after year. It is evident that the Ombudsman is independent in his work and that he is persistently encouraging the authorities of the state administration and bodies with public authority to act on an up-to-date basis in cases. On several occasions, the Ombudsman asked the Croatian Parliament to improve the conditions in order to achieve its function even better, and in a significant part it succeeded. I think it's a high-quality office space, frames and others. The extension of the ombudsman's responsibilities has also come through the amendment of the Republic of Croatia and the need to strengthen the Ombudsman's Office is understood. In order to successfully implement the extended powers and tasks of the Advocate General in accordance with the new constitutional provisions, it is necessary to access the creation and adoption of a new Law on the Ombudsman, which, under the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Constitution, should be adopted soon. There have been many complaints and heated debates in the Assembly over the work of the Ministry of Interior and the conduct of police officers in the last few years. So this is what I'm going to do in my presentation, and I'm going to take a special look at this one. In his report to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Ombudsman pointed out that, of all ministries, the best and most intense co-operation with the MUP has been achieved in contrast with previous years. He pointed out that the MUP regularly responds to all the questions of the Ombudsman, yet he notes that these indications are often formal and do not contain everything necessary for them to be handled. Acting on complaints received by citizens in 2010, 47 examinations were initiated in the area of police officers' behaviour in the application of police powers, a slight increase compared to 2009. But it is certainly important that the Ombudsman himself commended that the excessive use of coercion has been visibly reduced. He also praised the adoption of a new Police Law, which also accepted some suggestions from the Office of the Police Attorney. The occupier expressed his support that the new Police Act formed an independent committee to examine citizens' representations, noting that it would not be good for this body to be questioned only. During the past five years, the Ombudsman pointed out the need to adopt a regulation that would normally regulate the procedure for examining complaints. Under the old law, that wasn't possible. The Ombudsman also positively assessed Article 5 of the new law, which prescribed that two representatives of the public also participate in the examination process. In this opinion, it will contribute to the transparency of police work and to strengthening the confidence of citizens in police. The occupier also positively assessed the choice of a police director who will be elected under the new Police Law through a public tender for the ministry's proposal. In the end, what I don't think is very good, so it's the happiest, and that's the assessment of the situation, it simply doesn't correspond with the statistics shown at the beginning of the report. I don't think the Attorney General has given enough effort to see why, in some cases, it's not possible to comply with the deadlines set when all the laws that have been passed will come to life. I think that was just a little bit better analyzed so that both the assessment of the situation and the proposals of the vehicular lawyer would be a little different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74966	Thank you very much. A prominent colleague, Susana Bilic-Vardic, appeared in the replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree almost entirely with your debate and with what you have presented because you spoke of the Ombudsman's endurance in protecting and respecting the constitutional and legal rights of citizens before the authorities of the state administration, local self-government and bodies with public authority, which is for every praise and for supporting it. But in this report, my colleagues point out the perseverance of the occupier's staff, in stressing the problem of insufficient information from citizens about the institution of the occupier, despite the presence of this report in the media and the promotional campaigns. So the question arises who is to blame for the lack of information of citizens about the institution of the Ombudsman, the 92nd Law of the institutions of 93, which is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, this, as well as its predecessor, made the citizens better informed because the conclusion stated in this Report is that citizens of the advanced age, i.e. the state of their unsolved cases, are only then reported to the Ombudsman. I personally think that these discussions on the report on the work of the Ombudsman, therefore on the annual reports, on what was brought about last year by the amendments to the Constitution, so empowerment of the Ombudsman's office, that the promotion of the institution of the occupier in the state, and that I am the Office of the Ombudsman, must further work on better information, not that we have this sentence and the conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74968	Thank you very much. Replica response, colleague Rebic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74969	Just for a little while, I think there's an observation on the scene, but the fact that 196 cases were received more in this year, I wouldn't see it as negative, just the opposite, I think that the occupiers are increasingly identifying citizens and I think that from year to year and especially in the past years, looking for more and more resources and space that the public office has really become one recognized institution and I think it is addressing more and more citizens. Of course, these discussions we have in Parliament are encouraging and that is one way for the office to function on the satisfaction of those most needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74970	Dear colleague Ivan Hanzek is next to be discussed. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74971	Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General. I never counted on it, now it happened to me that the creamworth for my start of the debate was served by counterpart Niko Rebic. By thinking about it, by listening to the debate on the one hand, on the other, on the third hand, if it is about how many sides, it turns out that the ruling structure does not accept the goods, it is actually receiving a report, because it is a poor assessment of the authorities, the opposition supports the public defender because it is on the trail of evidence that the government is not working, and I am actually on the trail of what counterpart Niko Rebic said at the end. The more people talk, the more people recognize legal means and opportunities, let's not say extra-institutional rather than the ability to directly exercise their rights from institutions, a regular institution that can help solve these problems. I'm surprised the government hasn't accepted it in years. I am the head of local self-government and conditionally speaking on the trail of constant struggle and with the Ombudsman representing the citizen, who is not satisfied, and then we think that we know everything and that we have made it clear to the citizen, we are surprised that this citizen does not understand what we are talking about and is calling for the help of the public defender. And that's out of the question to every government, every government institution, and it has to be entitled until we get to perfect society, and that's probably never. There will always be a need for an institution, I stress this time that unfortunately we have not institutionalised the Commissioner for Information, as one of the important links and perhaps a reduction of certain jobs and requests for the Attorney General. Because the fact that there is never enough information, that there are not enough perfect laws and that there is always a need for some "arbitr" between a rigid institution of government and a lever of power and a citizen, who doesn't have to know everything at least the right to talk about that no one is free if he doesn't know the law, but the fact that we don't know all the laws that we've voted here in just these years in Parliament, let alone citizens who feel the consequences of the same. From not being longer since I see that a lot of colleagues have given up, the extraordinary commendation that the Ombudsman wrote about what the public is saying, what the media is writing but is persistently ignoring in our practice especially when it comes to the judiciary and courts, which points to the permanent as my colleague said, quietly and persistently, the problems and failures, points to the path that we should choose to reduce the number of those who feel powerless in the clash with a powerful system of power. And when it comes to justification for deadlines, there's no excuse for any institution that she couldn't do it within the time limit. It's amazing that under the conditions of war, we could have done anything within the time limit. And in peacetime, we are not able to invite an officer, a reference who worked in a particular case to put facts on paper within a few hours, subscribing evidence, and to respond in a perhaps not precise way, but to respond immediately to that Roman proverb about helping who answers the question more with a half answer than one who does not respond within any time but with an exact answer when most often those who complain and ask is already dead. Therefore, the lawyer's call to the attorney generals from the D.A.'s office to continue with this insistent work, the call to the Assembly's representatives of this call or the one who will come after us to come with more understanding and material technical respect, not in the formation of a P.R.A. for the promotion of counsellors, as counterpart Bilić Wardic said, I think that we as system institutions should do so in order to give and know the public about the function, tasks and the actions of the attorney's office. Once more support and I will personally support this report and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74972	Thank you very much. And the last application we received for an individual debate, the distinguished colleague, Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I answered simply to highlight the unsustainableness and absurdity in the Croatian Parliament, regarding the report by the attorney general. In fact, the citizens also know and the HDZ representatives, or the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament, know and remember that they have elected the Ombudsman, and that we all as the Croatian Parliament have brought the Constitution where we have established that the Ombudsman is the commissioner, the authority of this Parliament, and that is the basis for Parliament. So it is our institution that, on behalf of and at the expense of this Croatian Parliament, it is working to protect and promote human rights. It is the starting point for the Croatian Parliament. And now we have a situation so we don't accept the report of the one we've authorized, we don't accept it, although I don't know what it is, and we accept the position of the one we have to oversee the government of the Republic of Croatia. It's just an unsustainable situation. It can't stay that way. Or we simply said you in the Croatian Parliament do not decide by the Constitution, but decide by political interest because it is your interest to protect the government even if human rights are violated. Is it possible that co-workers and colleagues should be told publicly to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? If the constitution in Article 93 says so and says so, and the Ombudsman says publicly and white - mindedly that trends in human rights violations are negative. And we say we won't accept it, we won't accept it because we have to protect the government. So, citizens, you suffer human rights violations and we will protect our government by our own means. Is this the position of the Croatian Parliament? And that is to say, it is the position of the ruling Croatian parliament headed by the HDZ. That's the point of view. If we do not accept the report, tell us what does not accept the ruling majority in a report by the occupier. The occupier says over 50% of complaints are the result of a lack of respect for the law. Can the Croatian Parliament stand behind it to say that I do not accept it, and it does not bring down that fact, and even the government does not bring that down in its report. Well, I really think it's an absurd situation that cannot be accepted by the responsible representatives in this House, I cannot accept. The attorney general says there is a serious difference between the rules, so the laws and other regulations and the proclaimed policies and their application in practice. This is a finding by the Ombudsman and therefore lists a significant number of concrete examples. And then the ruling majority says we don't accept it. But not because it's not true, but it doesn't suit our government. The occupier says the main problem is the politicisation of the state administration. He cites it and therefore strengthens the facts. And you know who's responsible for the work of the state administration? The government of the And we are responsible for overseeing this government, we are responsible to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And then we say we don't accept it because it doesn't fit our government, but if it suits the citizens. The attorney general says he has 20% more complaints about violations of human rights due to the war, and this is about housing care, about restoration. We say we don't accept who you say that to. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Well, colleagues and colleagues really cannot explain this absurdity to normal citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it is not possible to explain. Instead of saying here in the Parliament, the truth is this is not a report on the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. That's right. It's a report of human rights violations in the Republic of Croatia. So, look at the realisation of human rights on the negative side. That's true. But that's why we can't say we won't accept it. That is why we have also empowered and established the institution of the Ombudsman and given him increased powers for a reason, according to the instructions of our friends and partners from the EU. The Attorney General says that even the Administrative Court doesn't pass judgment within a reasonable period of time, and we know that we still have a lot of work to do here. We say we don't accept it. So long as it's the mother of God. I would also like to point out that the Ombudsman continues to talk about the problems of the judiciary and the judiciary or the judiciary. I must say that the situation is currently changed regarding the responsibility of the Parliament and the Government themselves when it comes to appointments, the responsibility of judges, the promotion of judges, etc. So the Croatian state, the Croatian Parliament established an independent body of the State Judiciary Council that took responsibility for the public, or for the lack of discipline or responsibility of judges in the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia. But this does not reduce the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament when it comes to the assessments that have been made here. That doesn't diminish. We can't say we don't accept it, we don't accept it, or we'll tell the Ombudsman you don't spend time and money on Croatian citizens, because whatever you determine we won't accept it because it doesn't belong to our government. And then we have to tell the citizens we're not accomplishing the constitutional task. My colleagues and colleagues, if we accept such an assessment, then we will vote in nature against this report, which means we accept it in knowledge, but we don't do it, we don't do it. If we make a decision like this, we will have the legitimacy that we are not concerned with the exercise of human rights, the protection of freedom and individuals in the Republic of Croatia, I am convinced that we will not make such a decision. We cannot accept that an institution that has nothing to do with being discredited by the political will or by the political interest of the ruling to create a better picture of itself in one day or for one election. That way you can't go forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74974	Thank you very much, colleague. There are no more individual applications. We have one application for the final word HNS, HSU, colleague Silvano Hrelja. He's gone. Well, then, the esteemed attorney, final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74975	It's only three and a half sentences. First of all, I thank all those who gave attention to this report, and I thank those who have praised the report, and I thank those who have a different view of some grades of what I consider to be quite normal and what is usually useful for the discussion. Mr. Leko has just given me a cause for what I was about to say, this is not a report on the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia, about the law, it is a report on the occurrences of human rights violations, so he always shows that dark picture, but of course from that picture can still be concluded. In this sense, it is not justified to expect him to fully assess, give praise, assess what is good, what is bad, etc. Now the only thing he would look back on, which is the evaluations of our part of the report on the judiciary that they're flat-out, incorrect, so it can be concluded and unwitting. I would say the following, those three sentences or five sentences are no good to read outside the context of what is written in that entire section. This section is written to improve the situation in the judiciary, according to our proposal, to significantly strengthen the judicial administration, and to reduce, of course and thus, part of the influence of the executive authority on the judiciary. As for the assessment that there was an inappropriate influence on the judiciary, I don't need to mention it specifically, because it's known. Finally, the government responded, the obviouss regarding Chapter 23, and the criteria that speak very precisely in which direction, and what the government had accepted in which direction it should go forward, I would have said support what I said, and that is crucial after we passed the laws and the new DSV Act through which Croatia has in some way acknowledged that the previous way and appointments and work of that body that it has endured certain objections, was precisely the purpose of this report to encourage it. On the other hand, the purpose was to encourage the system itself, within a judiciary which, unfortunately, was also not always best placed when it came to the realization of those because yet a smaller number of judges who were not appointed, should not be placed the key that they were named by populist criteria, but not exclusively by professional criteria of ability, etc. So in this context, I couldn't accept that assessment any more than I could about their accuracy, given my current duties and functions, I have a lot of knowledge, and as judge of the Constitutional Court who I am in my own time, not myself, but personally, to say so, I have abolished a few dozen even decisions of the State Judiciary Council at that time. So the facts, in addition to all the expert meetings, symposiums, can be found in the literature one assessment that not at all times did not come best and most capable to the judiciary. It is a pity that a small number of such judges are in some way spoiling the general picture and it would be good if the mechanisms, which is the new president of the State Judiciary Council, were announced, and this requires also standards, which means that the work of the State Judicial Council is strengthened in terms of independence, in terms of appointments, but because of the implementation of disciplinary, therefore of strict procedures, etc. So I think it's in a certain way that what I've brought out here goes in favor of what the government is within the scales. On the other hand, I would say that, in relation to the Government, I also see some changes, the government has even adopted an amendment to the Human Rights Office regulation, which has been tasked with following the recommendations of the attorney general, and that, after the report to say so, it indicates and implements, tries to implement through the Ministry and other bodies, and recommendations from the Ombudsman. As you can see, this government opinion, although I don't think it's good, because the government didn't actually give an opinion, but as usual, it prescribed what it got from the ministries, but I don't think there's any of those important critical assessments as it has ever been. I hope it's a good start for the future, and in that sense, I want those intentions to be realized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74976	Thank you very much. Here, we're done with the final address. I'm closing this agenda. We'll vote when the conditions are met as usual, and we believe it will be tomorrow at 11.00, so I'll report to you and inform you that the vote is scheduled tomorrow at 11.00.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-09-0.u74977	We are moving on to the 2010 report on the work of the Ombudsman. The applicant is the attorney general. The debate is closed. The HDZ Club proposed conclusions. Are they separated? We have here the conclusions proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club. [[Intruder: Yes.]] You saw and you read and I put them to the vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. This proposal for a conclusion was accepted by most votes, 91 votes for, 3 abstentions and 3 against. The Committee on Human Rights, the rights of national minorities, proposes to the Assembly to reach a conclusion which reads: opinions, observations and proposals presented in the debate on the report as well as observations, proposals and recommendations by the Ombudsman in the report shall be delivered to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take measures for the effective operation of competent labour authorities with public authority. It's similar to this conclusion, but I would vote for it too. They're a little different, so... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No need, so it's contained in this, so Mr. Radin has withdrawn the suggestions of this conclusion. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue to work, but first I would like to remind you that there would be a vote on the points of the agenda, then on the expansion of the agenda, but what it is at 11.00 is that we will have two rounds of secret vote. And that's going to be a pretty technical waste of time, so please clubs now that's an hour and a half, now let the MPs and MPs know that we'll vote at 11.00. We move to the point of the agenda that was announced earlier yesterday is - The annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2010 is submitted by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development submitted a report on the basis of Article 22. Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Presidents of HBOR's administration, Mr Anton Kovachev. Here you go.
