ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70165	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Law on HRT on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament launched the selection procedure for members of the Croatian Programme Council and issued a public call on 13 December 2010. The Committee considered the candidates' proposals and forwarded 26 January all those applications that arrived within the deadline and which met the conditions and criteria laid down by law to representatives' clubs for compliance. The agreement did not take place, so the Committee on Information, Information and Media was in accordance with Article 25(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on HRT in the Programme Council of the HRT decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the appointment of Peter Lovrić, Dr Milan Kujundzic, Josip Jović, Darko Gribic, Branko Pavlic and Dr. Viktorija Car on the proposal of clubs of the parliamentary majority and Dr. Ivo Golstin, Master Sanja Ivić, Branko Karabatić, Dr. Nada Zgrabljić Rotar and Antu Tomic on the proposal of clubs of the parliamentary minority. However, Mrs Branka Pavlic withdrew her candidacy on February 24th. As Mrs Branka Pavlic was proposed by the parliamentary majority, this same parliamentary majority in a letter to the committee instead decided to propose Dr Josip Cherin. As a result, you will also receive an amendment from the Committee, which lists this very amendment. The board is proposing to the plenary session to vote this closed list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70166	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70167	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The appointment of members of the Programme Council should be one of the final steps in stabilising the situation in Croatia's broadcasting at least as regards the responsibilities of the Croatian Parliament as founder, founder of Croatian broadcasting as a public service, public information service in service and in the interest of citizens. The responsibility of the Croatian Assembly for the functioning of this system and its future cannot be reduced by anything. No political interests or party agreements can be reduced. It is such a high and just by being defined by the law, the Croatian Parliament would be aware of all the proposals, but also of the objections that come from the public, in the name of the Croatian public in the Programme Council. There were a number of candidates who made a public call to the Committee on Information, Information and Media after the experiences we had in the past, in particular for the past two years, in some ways, caused ridicule and some kind of surveillance. Who are the people who, after all, want to engage in the Programme Council of Croatian RadioTelevision, what kind of profile is it that after all wants to expose themselves to such a one, conditionally speaking, not only public, important, responsible business of public representation but also of stress, but also of opposing certain tendencies, but also of already defined, I would say trends on Croatian radiotelevision that last much more than the mandate of a programme council, and whose consequences are in fact ignoring the profession, quality, depletion of the people, depletion of the most important part of the capital that we have there, which is human capital, depletion of the quality of software production, but also a rapid reduction of the very software production. Unlike the Supervisory Board, whose new Law on Croatian Radio Television is intended for supervision or supervision of Croatian financial operations as a major business system, which we must not only be seen as a system in which 3500 people operate, but also as a system of which a whole of the related sectors depend, from audiovisual industry, independent producers to writers and all those involved in public affairs, but also perhaps the most cultural and cultural identity of Croatian people, the language of Croatian and all that makes up the contemporary identity of Croatia and Croats, but also all those who make up the Croatian political and all members of national minorities. Whether the proposed composition of the Programme Council will be able to respond to the task intended for it by the Law on Croatian Television. Therefore, this task has nothing to do with the business and conduct of the large system, the task is intended for the Supervisory Board. The task of the Programme Council is to preserve and improve the programming standards that are primarily based on the Law on Croatian Radio Television, on the definition of public interest, but also on the so-called so-called Public Interest Act. an annual contract to be concluded by Croatian Radio Television with the Croatian Government, which therefore represents the public here in order to meet the law of defined obligations in meeting public needs, everything that commercial television does not do. So will the Programme Council, as proposed, do that task yet to be seen. This is the last step in the process in which the Croatian Parliament participates because after this is appointed Programme Council, what together with the Supervisory Board has to open a tender for the selection of the principal director and then the final process of defining the administrative structure, the professional structure of Croatian radiotelevision begins. However, we must not ignore the fact that the public or part of the public has serious problems and serious objections to the procedure conducted in the Croatian Parliament. The sum of all criticisms that went towards the Croatian Parliament and the Information Committee as the formal holder of this proposal to the plenary session is partying, is looking at party interests and ignoring public interest. That's what's in general with all the remarks. Some remarks of course have a larger or smaller basis, some organisations that make up the cultural public of Croatia think they have the exclusive right to have a system that does not exist at all or is founded in this law, which is a delegating system ipso facto have their own representative in the Programme Council. It's not and it can't be like that and it wouldn't be good if it were. This system is not set up to be a representative of the church, queen, academy or so, but to be made from different layers of society, but those layers that are directly interested in preserving the public interest, to have the Croatian Parliament select and read the best and appoint them to the Programme Council. There were comments that some might be in conflict of interest. They can be answered that specific names make certain that some people are stronger than any employer they work for or work for with their habitat and what they have done in life and what they do today. And it's funny to respect them that this employer is the one who will shape their functioning in the Programme Council. But we must also not run away from the fact that we are in a position to be laughed at by a part of the public because the original proposal of the ruling party was to be a member of this Council to be the person who was shown to the public as the daughter of the prime minister's best friend. Did we need that? Did we need this kind of nepotism to spread out here and say here's how they behave, here's how they actually play these public roles that the Constitution intended for them but also the Law on Croatian Television. Couldn't we have done it without it? Of course we are. If there were a higher level of responsibility, it would never have happened. We can argue about people who are in the court of these or those, these or those organisations, interest groups closer or further concepts of conflict of interest. But may we play with honor when we propose people who are, who are the only qualifications of friendship with the most positioned people of the ruling party. That can't be standard today or tomorrow. The Croatian People's Party club, Croatia's retired parties, will stand behind this proposal in the hope and desire for the establishment of the Programme Council as soon as possible and to allow the opening of tenders for the selection of the Croatian Director-General of Radio Television. We really want to end the drama and agony in which there is a business system, but in particular the most creative people of that system who are in a situation that they don't know if they're going to work tomorrow and what kind of program they're going to be able to work in at all. They don't know if the censorship system will continue or eventually be bred. They don't know if they're going to be brought in as editors just to sign notices and someone else tells them what's going to happen on their shows. They don't know if they'll stay and spend more days at work, even though the most creative parts of the system are just because they don't work there for 10, 15 or 20 years still a permanent job contract. It's time to deal with the situation. It is time for the best-quality part of what we call logistics to the Croatian audio-visual industry to finally be put into operation and enable them to produce quality, good and to continue where Croatian broadcasting stopped when building such a valuable brand has positioned itself as one of the most important things we can offer to the public in all of this region which understands Croatian language and about the interests of those whom it is native to not even speak. In that sense, therefore, the HNS Club, the HSU will stand behind this proposal fully aware that there are objections to the public that lead to doubt in part of the behaviour and one segment I would say to this process that we have carried out. But the Croatian Parliament is legally founded as one who will make a decision on the Programme Council and that decision does not belong to anyone else, as we will not delegate our right to anyone. We must also be aware that we have brought full responsibility for the functioning of the Programme Council, for monitoring the software quality of work on HRT, but also for selecting the future head director, and then for the entire team, the entire administration of Croatian broadcasting, which will hopefully be put into service as soon as possible. And we hope that there will be no present or former politicians among them and that Croatian broadcasting will not be a refuge for former staff, for personnel who are exposed or for staff who owe their parties a service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70168	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70169	Thank you very much. Well, I couldn't agree more. I think it's incorrect that he said that this is nepotism if she answered or was elected even the daughter of a friend of the prime minister. It's not about whose friend it is. It's about the baby. Well, I think it's a cheap political setup, and I'd even say miserable thinking. Why should the children of our friends be handicapped or why they can't run and be somewhere because they're our friends. I think that's just bullshit. You're getting into total contradiction a little while ago. You say we should choose capable, we should choose those who are creative, good, quality. So what makes you know that this person is not good, quality and capable, but just because she's someone's friend's daughter, she can't be. So why couldn't your friend's kid compete somewhere? Well, I think they're really miserable thinking and planting and they don't have to be disabled because their parents are someone's friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70170	Correction of Madam Representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague, Kunst, who's mostly corrected the incorrect quote I wanted to make. But I'd say one more sentence. How do you know who the Prime Minister's best friends are, where did you get them? That's the first thing. On the other hand, you must know and have been present at the meetings of the Information Committee. You could have objected there. You know that Mrs Branka Pavlic was chosen as a capable, very quality young person, not as someone's friend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70172	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70173	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Compared to this proposal, the list for the HRT Programme Council stands out in public three objections, so on behalf of the SDP club, I would say something about these objections. The first objection is that this list is the result of a political agreement. There's no political agreement, and I'd say unfortunately he's gone. It'd be better if he had one. It would be better if the representatives' clubs could agree on 11 names that are indisputable to all MPs in this House. This would represent a political agreement that the law provides for, and the law points to, such an agreement. Unfortunately, he is gone, and the only political agreement that has been reached is that the law is respected. That's what the political agreement was about, fortunately. So here we have six names that are the parliamentary majority's proposal, and the parliamentary majority is somehow responsible for those names. If they are of quality, they do their job well in the Programme Council, it will be the pride of the parliamentary majority. If they do this badly, it will be on the soul of the same parliamentary majority. Equally for the five names proposed by the parliamentary minority. Another complaint that points out that some of the candidates are in conflict of interest. First of all, there is a Committee for Interrogation and Determination of Conflict of Interest. The conflict of interest cannot be established by any political party, by any civil society association, by any individual, because if that were the case then we wouldn't need a commission, then anyone could tell anyone that it is or is not in conflict of interest. Therefore, all those who suspect that some of the proposed candidates are in conflict of interest, we refer to this commission, which is only authorised to determine whether there is or is no conflict of interest. I personally and the SDP club are convinced that there is no conflict of interest, because some journalists are proposed, and as a conflict of interest, it would be that they publish in newspapers that have their own portals. In that way, no journalist could enter the council, because there are no such messages that have no website or portal, but then we would exclude journalists from the Programme Council. Therefore, the objection is unfounded, at least as far as the SDP club is concerned. But I repeat, if anyone suspects to address the commission. The third objection is that politics chooses without institutions outside the parliament having an impact on the choice. Someone's got to choose. The law could have determined that it would be the Croatian Matica that chooses, or be a bishopial conference that chooses, or be this or that association, or be at all the civil society associations that we know in Croatia probably have over 2,000, so the question would be which of these associations? Besides, in the 2001 law, we had exactly that kind of solution. In order to avoid the political influence of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council, associations chose directly. What happened? These elected, elected representatives have founded a political party in the Council, we have expelled representatives from the council, so they have been elected, but those who have not been elected by anyone but their associations have established a political party. We can determine it to be the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts which chooses, but Croatian Academy, members of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts choose themselves members of the Academy, they choose themselves. It happens to them that they don't choose a professor. He's blinking amongst his members. So here is the legislator, somewhere chosen by the monarch, the king in some countries, somewhere choosing the House of Parliament's upper house, somewhere in the House of Commons. The founder of Croatian Radio Television is the Republic of Croatia, and therefore it is perfectly logical that someone representing the Republic of Croatia chooses members of this council in one way or another. It could either be the President of the Republic or the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Parliament. The best solution was chosen to be the Parliament. Why? Because the Croatian Parliament is not only legislative, but also the supreme representative body of citizens, elected representatives are citizens' will, they represent those citizens. So there's no more logical solution than to do it here in the Parliament. Now the objection that institutions outside the parliament have no influence on choice is not true. Why? All those who elected the parliamentary, general, democratic elections chose the HDZ list carried by Dr. Ivo Sanader, they have chosen their representatives in this House. So, to be simpler, that member of the Croatian Mother who voted for the HDZ list led by Ivo Sanader, he chose to be represented today by Mr Matušić, Mr Kunst, Mr Markovanovic, Mrs Sumrak, and they represent their will. Instead of these citizens, they decide today in this House who will be in the council, by their vote, so all members of all associations are represented in this House for participating in parliamentary elections. They have their representatives. Likewise, all those who voted for the SDP list voted for them to be represented today by Milanovic, Mimica, Ivo Josipovic while he was a representative, today representing them as president of the Republic, but every citizen in the elections here has a representative. And these representatives elected MPs instead of these citizens express their will, including by choosing the HRT Programme Council. Therefore, the objection that institutions outside the Parliament do not have any influence on the selection of members of the Programme Council is not correct. It's not true. The assembly represents the total electoral body, through individual clubs, and just as the clubs determine who will be in this council. The law I think was done well, in addition, if there were any objections in this way to the election of the Programme Council there was also time for these objections to be highlighted through a very long and very high-quality debate on the bill's proposal. There were no such objections. They're not distinguished. I personally think this is a good solution, that it ensures one equality between different political options, i.e. ensure that there is no political option in the Programme Council a significant majority, a two-thirds majority, regardless of the result of the elections. And after these next elections, the relationship between the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority will change, but the HRT Council will remain in one balance that is acceptable. The parliamentary majority has little leverage here, but there is not enough leverage to determine or manage the Programme Council on its own. There, he also had needs to explain this on behalf of the SDP club in order not to misread this choice in public. And the SDP club will support this closed list and calls and a plenary session to vote this list unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70174	Thank you. Correction, agent Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70175	Well, this election-related acrobatic is primarily incorrect. So, fellow Stazic most likely knows how the Croatian Parliament MPs are elected in the elections, that they are elected from the list by election units, not any list of Sanader or Milanovic, or I don't know who. Your thesis could be about the same as that that here's Sanader you deserve to have SDP President Milanovic because he hired him at the Foreign Ministry. Well, that's how a man managed to make progress and get to the point of being your president.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70176	The HDZ Club, Mrs. Representative of the Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Those who love television often like to say for them, and television is an illusion. And it's the thesis that likes to bond with the most visible medium. However, this illusion of creative potential when it is found on the political stage many experience as it is right now and in the debate over the election of members of the Programme Council as an illusion of bad intentions. We at the HDZ Club believe that the public media, recently passed by the Law on HRT and the role of members of the Programme Council, which we are now talking about, brings good grounds for stabilising HRT, but we also want to finally see the effects of what we call public television functions. The new law also defined the wider role of the Programme Council as a basis for representing and protecting the public's interests by implementing programme surveillance and improving not only the television we prefer to talk about, or prefer to talk about, because probably some MPs like to look at themselves on the HRT screen, which, by the way, usually find their space there if they say a sender or say something convenient, not if they say something reasonable. But of course equally, we look at both the radio programme and those multimedia services and, of course, participation in the selection process of the board and the editor-in-chief of the HRT. So that makes it the Program Council. The Programme Council and the Supervisory Board shall appoint and resolve the President and members of the HRT Board and shall adopt the Statute as well as the Work and Financial Plan. So all that matters is that public television works in all its segments. However, their task is also to monitor the implementation of the programme principles contained in the contract that I remind HRT of, sign with the Government of the Republic of Croatia where they are defined. It's called, as well as what's a newspaper, I'll remind you in law, Commissioner for Consumer Services. I think it will be a person who will be able to respond more usefully to all the remarks that HRT viewers point to. 11 members, so these are the people who are proposed on the list, will sit on the HRT Programme Council, and we want to believe that these people have submitted their bids not under political cover but that they are people who want to work in the public interest. The Programme Council therefore appoints the editors-in-chiefs on the proposal of the administration and after a statement by both editors and journalists has been carried out. There are two more key public television assignments in liberal democracy. To support the democratic system, I believe that no one will dispute it, it should be its role and rule of law, and, at the same time, I will also say the guarantee of its independence and freedom. Moreover, public television is obliged to provide accurate and comprehensive reporting as well as an equal and free public forum for discussion on all important social topics. There is the role of members of the HRT Programme Council, they must protect and protect the public's interest by conducting surveillance and improving the programme. We often talk about creating an independent framework, thus encouraging pluralism, a balanced television programme, and what I will say allows and implies establishing a complex, transparent structure of dynamic relations between professional journalists and editors, civil society organisations, all relevant social groups and the interests of the general public. The question arises, however, where is the limit between professionalism, or the fulfillment of the function from what we call content definition and public service functions. For example, Article 9 states that the public needs to be informed about political, economic, social, health, cultural and other developments. However, where is the border between informing or actively participating in these events, as I must say, the day when some of the editors, or public television journalists, 2 hours or 3 hours earlier, met this function in Article 9, and then perhaps after that, we will ask ourselves to cross that line and join us on the other side. But we do not have to answer this question, but we can certainly trouble him. Can we ask ourselves if it's a privatization of media space? Privatisation of the media space used to express its free will. Everyone has the right to express their free will, but then they must be clearly fenced from their function or editors or journalists and see how he acts in 2.3 hours as a citizen. Public television also believes that its journalists are experiencing the biggest crisis of profession and governance. Journalists also signed a similar petition, and they warn of something that we are warning, but on the other hand, some of these journalists are crossing this line. I believe that public television must not be a haven of imaginary greatness and false values, and there is that. Learn, show, raise awareness, tell the truth. This has to be public television. HRT in its work is independent of any political influence and we are obliged to respect it. We didn't accept that law, we didn't agree on it, and we're supposed to implement it, not continuously, as it's been said today that it's affecting this particular HRTV. Because of all this, and not to end up in an illusion, we will already return to the reality of the HDZ club will support the proposed list of candidates for the HRTV Programme Council and, of course, we will wish them successful work together with the recently elected members of the Supervisory Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70178	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70179	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here are the big discussions on the board, and the committee proposed 11 members for the HRTV Programme Council, and I don't think there were any more significant objections on the one hand. But I have to do it again, because in fact, both sides, I think, would support part of the proposed members of the HRTV Programme Council who have proposed their political rivals to say so. So there are a number of prominent people, celebrities and personalities, and I believe that the HRTV Programme Council has a great chance of doing its job. Let us remember that the Programme Council on HRTVs has long not worked out that it had too many powers or dealt with things that it would not deal with now, which is very important. And yet I must say and repeat that some future members of the HRTV Programme Council that I believe will be elected today must change their views a little, because first of all, I must point out Mr Antu Tomic, who is the opposite of the Constitution in Article 43, which says everyone is guaranteed the right and political belief, in short, Article 25. The Law on HRTV which speaks of the defence of human rights and freedoms simply said two things that are entirely contrary to what I have stated. And that's about the IQ, so it's opposite to his right, and then he's talking to people from '71. You should be banned from speaking forever. So I'm not sure he's going to change significantly, but here's the HRTV Program Council I want him to do the best he can in spite of him. There were also objections at the the thematic session that as many as three members from Europapress holding here and looking in line Mr. Jovic who was then called there was a free journalist. Mr. Goldstein writes for the Jutarnji list, but he is also a university professor, and the only employee of Europapress holding is Mr. Ante Tomic. So if they are already going, let them specifically say who is in conflict of interest, let the Committee apply for a decision on a conflict of interest, and it will be clarified there. There were objections here from the Croatian Mother that none of them were there, but Mrs. Victoria Car is a prominent member of the Mother of Croatia, I finally attended one of her extraordinary shows about the informative shows of all the three TVs that do so. At the time there were three who were doing this and right in the rooms of Matica Hrvatska. So, I think that objection is off, too. It should be said that what we expect from HRTV should not be what happens today, because it turns out that HRTV is the media sponsor of these protests. Namely, here's to expand the subject a little while ago. Croatia's editor can't go live, invite people to this text of hers to protest later on she and the editor joins the protests with the manager and declares that she is fascinated by the glow in the eyes of young protesters. I think that then HRTV is not what it should be, because it has sided with those whose main goal is to tear down the government, bring someone else here, and it is not the work of HRTV, also with another editor, Mr. Stubelar, so they also walk nicely and invite the people of Mrs. Knezevic, Maja North and Mr. Mladen Stublar with so much warmth to talk about these protests that here they could not resist but joined these protests. If it's HRTV that I'm expected not to be on one side to be realistic after all, objectively, then I don't think some things here are definitely okay. Another problem here is one member resigning because she's a friend of someone, right. And now I'm afraid that all of us politicians will be left without friends, because everyone has children, and those kids won't be able to be hired or move on to somewhere in the profession or anywhere chosen, because they have friends of politicians. So, I think that's the extreme that we have to admit that it's nice when we talk about someone else, but when we talk about the nearest ones, then I'm really afraid reality isn't pleasant. Therefore, the HRTV Programme Council as it can do much together with the supervisory board in which it is a profession, on the Supervisory Board is an profession to monitor finance above all, and to monitor the management of HRTV so that it can monitor the good program and I wish them a lot of success together and to choose a good administration so that HRTV finally starts to do all the work that is expected of it, so one quality contract and in that quality contract as accurately as possible define what obligations they are because it will only justify this money that HRTV gets. I think it's about time that this temporary administration couldn't be temporary for so long, because we don't have the power, we don't have the authority, and that actually further events on HRTV are getting out of hand. So I believe that today we will choose the HRTV Programme Council and fill out everything the Croatian Parliament was obliged to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70180	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70181	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Markovinović, you said in your debate that there were frequent calls about the existence of a conflict of interest among the proposed members of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council. Not only is there a Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests but it is also a law and new, and that provision also existed in the old, henceforth, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest on the conduct of public duties to apply the provisions of the law in an appropriate manner to all those appointed by the Croatian Government, the Croatian Parliament. In this particular case this person, therefore members of the Croatian Council of Programmes are appointed by the Croatian Parliament and therefore fall under the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. And for this reason, it is not nice to announce the proposed people, the proposed members of the Programme Council who should play a very important role on HRT, judge them in advance until a new commission is formed, until they are named and, in a certain way, show that they are not really in conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70182	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70183	Well, the fact is that the proposed candidates are all somehow connected to the media, which was expected because actually if we call people who never had anything to do with the media, who weren't really involved in any of this, they'd hardly be able to track this. But I'm sorry if we're talking about candidates who were elected because the SDP was trying to make fun of each other in some way, so he said here's what the candidates are for you because you chose and these people in the Parliament and now they're proposing such candidates. I think it's a bad message because in the end they and their candidates chose the same thing. Are people satisfied with them, so I'm not sure they're more happy with them than with us, but what's there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70184	Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70185	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Markovinović, you encouraged me by your debate to actually conclude two facts and actually exchange an opinion about the third. So first, I agree with you that HRT will be these Programme Councils we trust better and better quality because our goal is to actually achieve Croatian broadcasting quality. And I remain on the claim that HRT will survive as quality or will not be otherwise, because who in poverty will finance a house that is not quality. Therefore, at this level is a very important place for the Programme Council and what HRT will actually represent and what will be the product that it will offer to the Croatian public for the money it spends. I agree with you, therefore, that we should just say the representation and the way these protests are presented these days in Croatia and the giving of importance in that segment when people are being insulted, when they are being threatened, and when they are acting violently, these people and these groups, and in particular by giving particular importance to these protests when opposition representatives are involved in them, and in fact, they are turning their promotional free premises, and in this way, including all of them as a product to the public, is harmful. Not only is it harmful but it is incorrect and in any case it must not be the role of HRT. I'd actually conclude with one finding, I'm curious about what you think of her. I have the impression that more space on HRT has been given to young Mr. Pernar who therefore skips the fences, who attacks the police, who, in fact, must by no means be a role model for young people in nothing and Pretty Brena in public terms, the most visible, but for example. all groups of Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. Imagine, for example. The Croatian national minority in European countries, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Croatian diaspora that actually contributed to Croatia and Croatia's broadcasting today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70186	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70187	And let's compare the ratings, the time to broadcast these shows to those who got these groups, then we'll see that they got more space, let's say here's Pernar and Pretty Bren. Well, isn't that sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70188	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70189	Well, unfortunately, our journalism is always bad news, because the good news doesn't seem to interest anyone, and I guess one day that's gonna change, too. But what you said, the interest in the Programme Council, I'm talking about the members of the Programme Council is incredibly large. We are all surprised how many people have applied here and I think all of this could have made a quality choice, but I believe that these people will also give a little more attention to our Croats outside of Croatia because the fact is really very neglected. I believe that there will be no direct transfer of what is happening, which will be happening in Croatia for another short time because I think she will be bored with herself, and the editors who are so excited about such events are working almost directly there, I think she will have to start dealing with more serious things. And finally, all of these, clearly, people's exposé is actually quite right and these riots are showing what they've done, because they're actually doing a few people who want to deal with politics, see how much it costs, how many overtime hours for the police, the tortured people out there, I guess, who are finally going to be accused of being this repressive and something like that just to get Sacic, Pernar and others found in the notorious Parliament they've been talking about all along, and they're anxiously waiting to get inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70190	Madam Representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here I am, in this brief debate, going to say a few words even though I don't want to repeat myself, but my colleagues before me have said more or less about the proposal for this decision. I certainly support this proposal for a decision and the amendment proposed by the Committee, primarily because I think it is really very good to appoint this Programme Council as soon as possible. Anyway, the whole public's already saying that we should've done it before. However, here is my pleasure to say that the board has indeed carried out the selection procedure of the members of the Programme Council in the best possible way, in accordance with the law. When we talk about Croatian broadcasting, it is certainly extremely important that we appoint this Council as soon as possible so that it, together with the Supervisory Board, could appoint HRT administration and, therefore, the editors of the programme. Why am I saying that? Because here at this point, and we are already colleagues we are not satisfied with, we believe that none of us here fully with the Croatian Radio Television as a public service, so about these protests, which were spoken of by colleagues Markovanovic who did not, or talked about them as needed. So I'm not going to talk about whose side it leaned. We all know that well. However, I must say, I also noticed yesterday in an informative show that even some of the organisers of the protest talked about dissatisfaction with Croatian Radio Television, so the dissatisfaction as she conveyed those protests. So, there is talk of one dissatisfaction in general with Croatian Radio Television and I think it is necessary that it becomes a public service within the shortest time possible to meet all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because it is a public television that would be expected to be satisfied. I will briefly look only at the category of people with disabilities and their dissatisfaction with public television, so their dissatisfaction with which I have already spoken many times. So, on shows dealing with the category of people with disabilities. So, that population of people. We think that one show on Croatian television that speaks about this problem is not enough, or that it may not be necessary, but let it be a very special, specialized show, rather than that the central information show and all other shows should talk about the problem of people with disabilities, which we now have to admit is rare. The central news show rarely when, possibly now, the sports section has been talking about the results of people with disabilities athletes. But I also have to say that here, I will dare say that and I will say that with the great credit of the Prime Minister who is always at all the meetings of people with disabilities, so at the symposiums that spoke about this problem after the signing of the convention that we can always say, we will be able to say that we are fully applying the Convention, and even when a sports result of the disabled will be the first news in the Dnevnik. So after such presentations and the convention and its implementation and the persons with disabilities themselves, here we can say with satisfaction that something has changed on Croatian television, but we cannot be completely satisfied. This is why I support the proposal for this decision and I believe that soon Croatian television will become a public service with which everyone in the Republic of Croatia will be pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70192	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70193	Dear colleague Lukacic. You, as well as several HDZ representatives, give editorial and journalistic instructions before you and say that on Croatian television when these protests were reported, they did not speak of how they should have been spoken. I followed those reports. I'd say they were professionally and properly made. For example, it would be incorrect for one of the rapporteurs or editors of St. Mark called Karamark Square, even if that name would fit him better today than this official one. I didn't hear that. But you give yourself the right to actually edit the program. That's not our job. We are gathered here today to choose the Programme Council. It's not even the task of the Programme Council to edit the program. The task of the Programme Council is to elect a director and oversee the legality of the work of editors. So, to monitor as many in the programming section as they do in their programme the provisions of the law. Do they have enough documentary programs, drama programs, children's programs, educational programs. All that content is legally required. Share comments to editors, give them instructions that we should work here from the Parliament unfortunately gives an argument to those who claim that politics is in an unacceptable way interfered with in the business of Croatian Radio Television and in the press business.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70194	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70195	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Stazic, well, everything you've just said last time, we're not happy. I explained very nicely in my discussion what we were not satisfied with, and I also spoke for myself. I don't think Croatian broadcasting has adequately conveyed the news, so the protests that took place and very well were seen from the reasonings of some journalists by them. It is precisely because of such things and not only because of such things, but also because of everything I have said I believe that this Programme Council will need to be appointed as soon as possible, that it is necessary for Croatian broadcasting to become a public service at the service of all citizens in the Republic of Croatia, that it does not tend to even certain political parties, and then I believe that we will be able to be fully satisfied with television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70196	Thank you. 5-minute debate, HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we witness one almost or mostly idyllic debate between the ruling and so on. opposition in connection with the appointment of members of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council. Yet here and there a little bit the same, here's the eye... the current developments are contradictory opinions on how and how the current events are reported. [[You don't understand.]] In view of such contradictory opinions, given the contradictory comments that are numerous these days, I went and personally convinced myself that these young people who show our cameras and about whom the media is writing, what they say, what they look like, what they want, what they write on their transparent ones. I don't think it's too much of a sin, if it's for someone, then it's something else. Namely, should the media be re-octrossed, should television be re-octrossed? In 1971 they were from the evening of the protest and in the dormitory, and I was then in the House of Stjepan Radić, and in the then Square of the Republic, today's Jelacic Square, and then television, Yugoslav Radio, the studio Zagreb did not report it, as if nothing was happening. I would not like to compare these two things, nor is it for comparison, nor is it reporting on these two events. This idyllic image that is in the Parliament today, I say, mainly stems from a well-balanced settlement, I would say political settlements 6-5, because the Programme Council has 11 members, between the opposition of Kukuriku and HDZ and its satellites. Associations of civil society discussed by Mr Stazic and the members of civil society associations, which could possibly enter the HRT Programme Council, can also be seen on the other hand. Namely, these 11 candidates who have given their life records here, and who we can read about, were or are members of many civil society associations, so this one, can't be members of all 2,000 as many civil society associations as there are, but some and some significant associations are members, or were members, and have experience in the work of civil society. Therefore, this representation of civil associations can also be made through them, regardless of what options, or quotas they came from. What's a little bit in the eye, is that one of the candidates writes that he's not even a member of any council or local self-government, is not a member of a political party, is not a member of anything, and he doesn't think he's in conflict of interest, which is quite right. On the other hand, we have a candidate who's all that, and he also doesn't think he's in a conflict of interest. So let's make a deal once, let's work out what it is and who it may be in conflict of interest. Therefore, a member who is highly positioned in the structures of a party, one party, highly positioned or most positioned in one chamber, and who unfortunately is the main argument that he was a member of the former Programme Council of the HRT, and this is one of the references to which he is called to be elected, and also accepted from the opposition, and from God of the ruling who have proposed a candidate for the member of the HRT Programme Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70199	So the deal is a settlement, and we'll be restrained given that deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70200	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70201	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of members of the HRT Programme Council. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Information and Information and Media. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the HRT Programme Council in addition to the amendment that the Committee has submitted earlier and it has been accepted. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This proposal for a decision was adopted by a majority of votes, 99 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 1 against in the text as proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70202	We are going to another point - - Final proposal of the Law on Special Tax on Coffee, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 724 Proposer of the Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, on European integration, on finance and on the state budget. You received the reports at the session. Finance Minister Martina Dalic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The new Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Coffee amends the provisions and methods of taxation of coffee. The reason for this law is to coordinate the way coffee is taxed with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. What is proposed by the new law? Until now, a special tax on coffee has been charged only on imports, an existing, new proposal suggests that a special tax on coffee is charged both when importing and when placing coffee on the market of the Republic of Croatia, which means that it is proposed that, apart from the importer, the taxpayer becomes also a coffee producer. Accordingly, changes have been made and, the height of the special tax has been changed, so it is proposed that the amount of the special tax on unroasted coffee remain as 5 kuna so far, while the amount of the special tax on fried coffee is proposed to be reduced from 12 to 6 kuna. ... The excise duty is proposed to remain unchanged 15 kuna and to extracts, essences and concentrates of 20 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed new tax base for all cases of taxation remains the same, and the expected impact of this law on the state budget is neutral, given that the proposed amount of excise duty on fried coffee actually corresponds to the current level of excise duty on unroasted coffee in the light of the dehydration of coffee during the roasting process. Accordingly, the tax burden on the taxpayers of this special tax will remain unchanged. The bill also proposes precisely because of the need to comply with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to abolish the marking of coffee markings from the date of accession to membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70204	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, chairman of the board, Mr Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70205	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At its 72nd session held on 2 March 2011, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the Law on Special Tax on Coffee as a home working body. In the opening statement, the Prime Minister explained the adoption, i.e. the proposal for this law, for the first reason of compliance with EU legislation. And the most pronounced change is, i.e. the proposed amount of the special tax almost does not change except one which is so that the tax on fried coffee is special tax reduced from 12 kuna to 6 kuna. The debate highlighted and assessed that the application of this law would have no impact on the state budget, i.e. that the impact would be neutral both on revenues and on the expenditures of the state budget. Therefore, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament will unanimously propose to the Croatian Parliament that this be passed by the Law on Special Tax on Coffee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70206	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70207	Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We are passing a new law on excise duty on coffee based on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and on the need to bring domestic legislation into line with EU legislation. Therefore, the period of time of 6 years which has been defined as regards excise duties on coffee, cigarettes and other products, defined by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, has expired and changes must be made, i.e. to harmonise domestic legislation. The difference between legal gains in terms of excise duties on coffee is similar, I say, either with cigarettes and remarks which are on the existing law refer to the fact that in the Republic of Croatia coffee is taxed on imports, so it is also put as a problem that it is more a customs issue than the excise duty itself, i.e. the tax. The reference is further made to favour the domestic coffee fryer in relation to the importer of fried coffee because there is a significant difference between paying the excise duty on raw, or fried coffee of as much as 7 kuna and taxing the quantities rather than the share of coffee in the product when it comes to coffee-containing products. The current taxpayer is a legal and natural person who imports coffee into the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia, so imports, imports or receives coffee. In this case, we are coming here in a new law to distinguish the imports heading towards the consumer, that is, the one to be used as reproductive material and which will only be paid after processing, or processed tax. The difference is also in taxation rates, so raw coffee remains at the same level as 5 kuna, while for fried coffee the tax liability is reduced from 12 to 6 kuna net weight of one kilogram. Therefore, the taxpayer in this case is also extended in such a way that the importers are also producers, i.e. persons who are illegally producing most likely when they are caught in such a business. However, we would like to warn here what the consequences of this new law on excise duty on coffee are. The first consequence is, we could say positive because we fully comply with domestic legislation with EU legislation. There are bigger obligations compared to those so far for those who will fry coffee. We could listen a little bit. Therefore, there are also positive but also negative consequences especially for companies and natural persons dealing with the processing or transport of coffee and coffee products, which is something to say about. When we, as individual representatives or club representatives, have legal initiatives, then we are always asked, or says as a lack in this proposal that we do not have defined, or that we have not written the consequences of certain legislative changes or new laws on the budget or the total economy. In fact, about 11 million kilos of coffee is imported into Croatia, of which about 80% refers to raw coffee. In other words, we in Croatia have a significant number of what natural persons, crafts or businesses do with coffee. So, frying, grinding and stuff. The difference in excise duty in this case will be 7 kuna. Whether it will also be any effect on these people, which means what impact this will have on employment and, like this, we have not heard about it in this explanation, except in the opening statement that it will be neutral about the revenue of the budget. What will a new amount of excise duties mean for those who are involved in the roasting of coffee? Whether a new relationship will now require someone to close their business, trade or reduce their production, and thus reduce employment which could be an additional blow to the economic course here in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70208	Thank you. The HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, Secretary of State. Here we have a brand-new proposal for a special tax on coffee, which, of course, if adopted, puts it out of force. Currently in force, the 2005 Special Coffee Tax Act, which is important to say that a number of its provisions do not comply with the EU acquis. That is why the HDZ Representatives' Club will also support the adoption of a completely new law. Therefore, the proposed law provides for full harmonisation of national legislation in the area of specific taxation of coffee with legal property of the EU, i.e. with provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, noting that the adoption of the law in question constitutes one of the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under Chapter 16 – Taxation. In this regard, the applicable Act on Special Tax on Coffee is governed by the payment of a specific tax on coffee imported into the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia, which defines the subject matter of taxation, taxpayers, tax base, the creation of a tax liability and payment of a specific tax, the introduction of records and reports and their delivery to the competent authorities, the obligation to mark coffee with marking marks of the Ministry of Finance, tax control, and the final sanctions for infringements of the provisions of this Act. All the above-listed content components of the applicable law are also covered by the proposal for a new law, but some of them are arranged and set in a different way in line with the European Commission’s observations, or with the EU’s acquis. In accordance with the provisions of the applicable law, all coffee imported or imported into the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia is subject to taxation while the tax base is one kg of the net weight of the product and is the same for all products considered coffee, whether it is raw coffee, fried coffee, coffee shell and opaque or other coffee products containing other components other than coffee. The exception of this rule is only finished drinks for which a specific tax is paid according to the percentage of coffee participation in 1kg of net weight of the product. It is also important to point out that under the provisions of the applicable rules, taxpayers are only legal and natural persons who import or import coffee into the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia and that coffee producers are not taxpayers but are only coffee-labelling bonds, marking the stamps of the Ministry of Finance and before putting coffee into circulation in the customs territory of the Republic of Croatia. In writing, the European Commission made comments in writing concerning the non-compliance of existing legal provisions with the EU acquis, and with the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which practically discriminates importers of fried coffee from the EU against domestic fryers and leads to an unequal position of EU producers and exporters in relation to the situation of domestic producers. These legitimate observations, which have been confirmed at national level and given that a thorough analysis has been carried out when making a basic analysis of certain legal provisions, the European Commission is based on the fact that the specific tax on coffee is paid only when importing coffee, which has the effect of customs duties, and not on the production of coffee, to apply different rates of tax and that the taxation of coffee products is based on a base which represents a kilogram of net weight of the product, and not on the participation of coffee in the product. For example, we have more than twice the amount of tax on fried coffee compared to raw coffee. Furthermore, on mixed products containing other components other than coffee. Let's say a coffee cappuccino with a 10% share of coffee, the special tax on imports is calculated on the total quantity of the product and not on the quantity of coffee in that product, while domestic producers of mixed products pay a special tax only when importing raw or fried coffee for production purposes, depending on whether it is fried or raw coffee means 5 or 12 kn per kilogram, respectively. Also, domestic coffee fryers import raw coffee to which they pay 5 kn special tax on 1kg of net raw coffee weight processed and placed on the market as fried coffee and do not pay any additional tax. While importers pay 12 kn special tax on imports of fried coffee from the EU. So for the same type of coffee on the Croatian market we have different levels of special tax. It is precisely to remove existing differences in the application of the special taxation system of coffee in the Republic of Croatia in relation to the current system in the EU and thus to place European and Croatian coffee producers in a level playing field, as well as importers, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed a brand new Act on Special Coffee Tax. Therefore, the proposal for a special tax on coffee was respected by all the observations sent by the European Commission in a different way than that in the current law: precise bonds of a special tax on coffee, with coffee importers and coffee producers becoming bonds, but it is important to say that the bonds are certain persons who are in an illegal or illegal way dealing with coffee, a obligation for taxpayers to report to the competent customs office before the start of the business or the traffic of coffee is made public in order to enrolment in the register of taxpayers of a specific tax. It is prescribed that the specific tax is paid on coffee produced and placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia, with a reference to the fact that coffee producers supplying coffee or importing it for the purposes of further reproduction do not pay a specific tax on imports, but that tax is calculated and paid at the time of the delivery of the product on the market. Furthermore, the obligation to charge a specific tax has been established and in cases where there is a lack of coffee as well as in cases of taking coffee for their own final consumption. It is prescribed that the specific tax on products other than coffee containing other components such as sugar, sweetener, milk powder and the like will be paid according to the participation of coffee in 1kg of net weight of the product. Finally, it is prescribed that coffee-procuring producers on the domestic market on which a special import tax has already been paid which is used as reproductive material in the further production of coffee are required on the day of dispatch to calculate the coffee-produced coffee and pay only the difference between the specific tax for a particular type of sent-off coffee and in accordance with Article 5 of the Law in question. Of course, it should also be said that, here, the law relating to the transport of coffee in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or to the marking of coffee, marking the stamps of the Ministry of Finance, will practically cease to apply after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club will support the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on Special Tax on Coffee, given the fact that we are bringing it in the context of the process of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70210	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70211	Dear Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. This proposed law is the result of harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, preceding the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which was signed in 2001. The European Commission insists that the different taxation of domestic and foreign coffee producers and coffee products be removed, more detailed fortifications of the place of trade in coffee, as well as the obligation to mark coffee stamps. Since a lot of things have already been said as far as taxation itself is concerned, I think it is also good, since coffee is a really special product and a few words about it are said because it takes a significant place in the world and in Europe, and for many people it is one of the most popular drinks. The Muslims drank it until the 13th century for religious reasons. Pope Clemen VII was a great coffee lover, so he blessed coffee and called it a true drink of Christianity, but coffee does not know a single religion, but that is why every faith recognizes coffee. According to surveys in Croatia over the last year, 10.6 million kilos of coffee have been spent in Croatia, costing about 791 million kuna somewhere. Research has also shown that 80% of Croatian adults drink and consume coffee at least once a day and that is good because coffee is healthy according to many medical studies to improve brain function and longer life. Coffee is rich in antioxidants, it's great against stress, and caffeine stimulates the burning of calories. Given the positive effect of coffee, as healthy as it is, I believe that we in the Assembly are MPs to be suspended which is forbidden to consume coffee at working-body sessions, and it has such a good effect against stress.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70212	It's not forbidden, it needs to be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70213	No, no, it's forbidden, it won't be brought to the hall. No, it's forbidden when they won't bring coffee no matter who pays. Japanese coffee is also used to treat many diseases, e.g. Skin disease or the prevention of wrinkles on the forehead, etc. Today is the biggest coffee maker, I believe we all know that, Brazil. A third of the total production of coffee in the world is in Brazil right now. All in all, coffee is a cult drink with which important decisions were made, plots, revolutions, wars, books written, songs composed. That's why coffee must be a special place in all cultures. And the best definition for coffee was said by a great French diplomat, that coffee is black as hell, hot as hell, pure as an angel and sweet as love. It is therefore not unusual that the European Union insists so much that the position of its members is even and that they cannot have an unequal position in the European Union and producers and exporters in relation to the situation of domestic producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70214	Is it about coffee? Some kind of composition? Some symphony or a coffee can? He's got that. It's a Dubrovnik trio. ... Mr. Representative Davor Huška, come in. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70215	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now, here's after these wonderful reflections on coffee, I believe everyone's come for coffee, but here's a little closer to the end of the debate, so there's gonna be a chance for that. But several more realistic displays and reflections on the proposal for a special tax on coffee. Two are the basic reasons for the new law. The first is to respect the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement concerning the non-imposing of new taxes equating with customs duties. Therefore, if only imports are taxed, and not production of finished products is considered to be taxes that can be levelled with import duties, i.e. respect for the principle of non-discrimination, which means equating the situation of domestic coffee producers and European producers. Another reason is the unique way of taxing products that contain other components besides coffee, not like so far different taxation of finished drinks containing coffee according to the participation of coffee in the drink and other products containing coffee according to the total mass of the product. The most significant changes to the current law are that the special tax has been charged only on imports of coffee, and this new bill also charges a special tax on coffee produced and placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the taxpayer with the importer as so far has been the coffee producer in the Republic of Croatia. Taxation is so different that so far the specific tax has been charged only when importing coffee, and according to the proposed law, the specific tax on coffee is calculated except for imports and production. On the subject matter of taxation produced in the Republic of Croatia, the proposed new law of the special tax is calculated at the time of delivery, or the dispatch of the finished coffee product and the products containing coffee from the manufacture or storage of the manufacturer. It is proposed by a new law and related to the tax base for all subject matter of taxation that it is the same, i.e. 1 kg net weight of coffee, or for products containing coffee, the participation of coffee contained in 1 kg of the net weight of the finished product. The heights of the special tax were already spoken of. Maybe something about coffee-containing products. So far, in the current law, they have been classified as other coffee products, and now the amount of the special tax increases from 20 kuna to 60 kuna. However, now a special tax is charged only on coffee contained in the product, not as so far on the total mass of the product which was subject to taxation. Here, for the sake of all this, I propose and accept the proposal for a special tax on coffee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70216	Thank you. Mr. Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70217	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Minister. I'm beginning to say that I'm going to support this law because of what's logical. We are entering the European Union and, normally, one market must be valid for all as well as for our producers. And as far as I can hear the information that Croatian coffee producers are ready for this tax equalisation in some way the higher burden they will have. What I'd like to point out is that we may have been able to think about the date of application. Maybe it wasn't supposed to be April 1, 2011. We could tie the date of application of this law to the date of Croatia's entry into the European Union and thus give some time to Croatian coffee producers to be in a more favourable police position and to prepare for that part of the competition where they will surely find themselves in a more unfavourable situation than they are now. But what's important to mention and what I don't think is good when the Croatian government is doing it is that... Mr. President, please use the bell. Mr. President, Mr. President, give me a little bell 'cause it's a noise. Thank you very much. What is not good is that the Croatian Government is working in this case as a finance minister, or as a proposing that the laws that we must adopt, which Europe is pushing us to adopt immediately as soon as Europe wants them to. But there is no tax reform that should be made in Croatia. Here's what prevented us from making certain laws and tax laws that would make Croatia a fairer tax system. At this point, you still have people who make hundreds of millions of kunas and don't pay any taxes. It's about capital gains, it's about capital revenue, and I'm going to give you an example. At this moment, the process of taking over a Croatian telecommunications company called METRONET is under way and will be taken over by what I hear from certain sources of VIPNET. MetroNET owners at this time will make a huge profit by taking it over. Will he pay to go swearing taxes? He won't. Unfortunately, the rule still applies in Croatia. Whoever makes money doesn't even pay taxes. Did those who made money on the INA stock at 12 months when the INA stock price jumped from 1700 to 3500 kuna pay a single kuna tax? No, they're not. ... And this ministry allows. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Unfortunately, only in 12 months, about a billion and 200 million kuna shares were sold on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, meaning a billion and 200 million kuna shares from the INA. That's what 600 million kuna profits were made for. No taxes were paid. And there's my question, and I'm kind of asking this government and the new finance minister because we see that so far, the HDZ government has not heard for 7 years that it introduces fairer taxes and in some way burden those who, in short time, earn an enormous amount, and not pay or swear taxes. Is this about selling the company? We had a Dukat case where two billion kunas went to the entrepreneur who created the company and all the honour of it, but he didn't pay any taxes. Today, this telecommunications company will be sold to each other. Its owners will again not pay any taxes, and when it comes to the European Union and the European Union's initiative to protect its taxpayers, then react conditionally. And that is the fundamental injustice that is happening in Croatia. We protect capital, we protect those who make good money, we burden those who don't have and in some way we don't protect as we saw in this bill's proposal, and we might have been able to extend the law for another year, a year and a half, maybe two years. We don't protect domestic production. And in some ways here I took advantage of the opportunity of the new finance minister as he first speaks here in the House as a proposing that we expect some proposals that will introduce a fairer tax burden on Croatian citizens and businesses, not just what Europe is telling us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70218	Thank you. And as last in the debate, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70219	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Minister with fellow Members, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll hope to be shorter in the debate. Namely, here you say some of my predecessors say after this we'll be able to and everyone will be born wanting to go for coffee. So we'll probably drink coffee at an old price, and I believe already maybe next week... Let's not shut down, I'll be quick. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] It is before us, therefore, a new draft law that is in line with the Law on the European Union. And we heard in the introduction, so that's something that's common there. We've never been here before. We even heard the guy's statements that the manufacturers were doing without tax, or illegal. That's where the claim was made. That's a little rough. All producers, especially a large number of small producers, did business in accordance with legal provisions and paid taxes that were then imposed on them. There will be no impact on the state budget. In one part, I can't agree, but I'd like to ask before that if it will have an impact on the producers. Therefore, to their activity, and to all that follows from this activity, and to pay those same taxes. What is important is that information has already appeared about the collection of coffee in part justly weaker crop of raw coffee, so in Colombia, Brazil, and other producer countries. But partly and therefore probably because it is one trend of purchase after bread, after milk, after sugar, after gasoline, after all of these to say the general foods. It's logical for coffee to be found in that part. So, she starts to collect too. And at the same time, we're looking at our shopping malls that we're swamped by a variety of different brands from foreign coffee producers. So, not only the importer's raw. You can't even find it raw, but a coffee manufacturer who's very often not in any quality. If these changes are made in taxes, i.e. in excise duties. Changes in the price of coffee that customers will bear, they are always on the tail, and they are always the ones who get the most of the negative in these situations, then they will, along with those phenomena that occurred in the recession, so it is clear to everyone that under the drop of coffee consumption is quite evident, then they will definitely reflect on the budget, because if the customers end-users drink less coffee, they will be less bought, it will be less and the resources in the state budget, so that this fundamental finding does not fully stand. So it'll affect the budget. And to say no longer, I would say that, it was worth considering in the spirit of what my colleague Maras said, it was worth considering whether the right time to introduce, so to comply with European law right now, when the difficult situation in the area of the economy and when these coffee producers are, above all, small producers, because they will be primarily victims, because we see that on the coffee producers market as they do, Franck takes over less producers as the largest producer, he protects himself in a certain way, which will make those smaller producers who have several employees, this is now the second question. So all in all, we can agree that it's a European law, we can even accept it, but I'm afraid it's another law that's gonna have a very important effect on the people I'd say, because I'm afraid coffee is one of the last haven't had a job like this, which doesn't have anything to eat, so here's the coffee. This time, obviously, that coffee will be limited in a certain way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70220	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Special Tax on Coffee, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 724. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Special Tax on Coffee. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 102 votes for, 6 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70223	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. So we have a report on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Tonin Picula of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 41st session held on 3 March 2011 the request of the co-authors of the subsidiary prosecutors of the town of Velika Gorica and VG Vodoware d.o.o. In accordance with Article 339 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council are to be authorised to initiate criminal proceedings against Tonin Picula for the criminal offence of unwitting work in the service referred to in Article 339 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. Mr Tonino Picula is a representative of the 6th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. The commission found that the decision of the County State Attorney's Office in Velika Gorica numbered KDO 19/10. Since 28 June 2010, a criminal application against Tonin Picula has been dismissed and the city of Velika Gorica has submitted an investigative request against Tonin Picula to the County Court in Zagreb. Following the debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament that the following decision be taken: during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Agent Tonin Picula in the case being conducted at the County Court in Zagreb is denied, business number PO 209/10. For the purposes of the criminal offence referred to in Article 339(1), This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-03-04-0.u70224	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving this proposal to the committee for a vote. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The commission's proposal was accepted unanimously by 106 votes. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have not completed more than 32 points that we have adopted as a agenda, I am holding a session of the Assembly on Wednesday 9.03. at 9.30 p.m. and starting on the basis of Article 201. Rules of Procedure of the Agenda Final Proposal of the Law on the Guarantee Fund for the Encouragement of Economic Development, Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 720. So on the 09th at 9.30 p.m. I want you to get... And probably next week Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then I guess we'll have to absorb most of this. Thank you very much. And now we move on to the agenda point we announced, and this is the final draft law on the Guarantee Fund to encourage economic development, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 720, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Finance Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
