ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. You are presented with a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the establishment and the privileges and immunities of the delegation of the Commission of the European Communities to the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for a Law. It is a common type agreement that the Republic of Croatia concluded several years ago with the then European Communities Commission, which, as we know in the course of the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, is transformed into a European Union delegation because they now form an integral part of the European External Affairs Service. The aim of this contract as well as similar types of bilateral international agreements is primarily to regulate those issues relating to the status and diplomatic mission in Croatia and the rights of diplomats and staff who are accredited through it in the Republic of Croatia. What is important to stress is that the date of signature of this Agreement also immediately introduced an exchange of diplomatic notes on the basis of a provisional measure, i.e. a provisional entry into force of this Agreement. Three months ago, the delegation informed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that all the necessary procedures had been completed for this bilateral agreement to come into force, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to refer to the final stage of the procedure of this legislative proposal, which gives the consent that in the territory of the Republic of Croatia the delegation of the European Union has legal personality to be able to conclude contracts, to obtain the immobil and mobile property necessary to meet its obligations effectively. The delegation, its head and members and members of their families who make up their households in the territory of the Republic of Croatia are also determined to enjoy the rights, privileges and immunities and to be subject to the provisions set out in the 1961 Vienna Convention. The rights and obligations and privileges and immunities of the delegation shall be determined by respecting the principle of reciprocity. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of The Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Union, the Member States of the Union, recognise the same rights, privileges, and immunities of the Mission of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, as well as diplomats and staff with their headquarters in Brussels. The implementation of this Act does not require additional financial resources in the state budget. The government therefore proposes that the Parliament ratify this international agreement in an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67331	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? Legislative? I am opening the debate, the Club of HDZ Representatives Ms. Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67332	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As Mr. Secretary of State said, there is not much debate on this kind of agreement, it is a typical, international agreement that the Republic of Croatia has with all national and international institutions represented in the Republic of Croatia. The conclusion of this Agreement has been followed by an intensification of relations and cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, and the particular reason for confirming this Agreement is that the amendments created by the European Union following the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, given that this Treaty amends the name of the European Union delegation and provides for a special common service of the external relations of the European Union. The exchange of notes between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the delegation of the European Commission Delegation at the time when the agreement was reached has given rise to an agreement on the provisional application of this Agreement, and for the reasons set out above and the fact that the European Union's certification procedure was implemented at the end of 2010, all the conditions for confirming this Agreement and in the Croatian Parliament have been met. This Agreement gives the consent to justify, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the delegation of the European Union and to regulate the status, privileges and immunities of the European Union Delegation, as Head of Delegation, its members and members of their families. Of course, according to the principle of reciprocity, the same rights are enjoyed by members of our mission to the European Union in Brussels. For the sake of all this, we hold important that Croatia will confirm that agreement for its part, and the HDZ Club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67333	Thank you. Ms. Danica Hursa's representative's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say at the outset that the HNSA club will support this bill and I'm going to do it again in a short time, even though my predecessors have made everything important about this bill. Therefore, according to the draft law, the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities governing the status, privileges and immunities of the European Communities' delegation to the Republic of Croatia is confirmed. The agreement should take effect as soon as possible, in accordance with its provisions, with which the Republic of Croatia and formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already signed International Treaty, which cannot be amended or supplemented at this stage. There's a few more important things from this bill. Therefore, this Agreement gives the Government of the Republic of Croatia consent to establish a Commission delegation of the European Communities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The agreement further lays down that the European Communities have legal personality, further the agreement states that the delegation enjoys the rights, privileges and immunities and is subject to the obligations set out in the 1961 Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations. Finally, those rights, privileges and immunities are confirmed under the conditions of reciprocity, i.e. that the Member States of the European Communities recognise the same rights, privileges and immunities to the EU Mission of the Republic of Croatia. Once again the HNS club, HSU will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67335	Thank you very much. Is there anything else you'd like to say, Secretary of State? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the Establishment and Privileges and Immunities of the Commission of the European Communities in the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 94 votes in favour and 1 abstention, the proposed law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67338	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament launched a procedure for the appointment of members of the Croatian Supervisory Board and announced a tender for the selection of members of the Croatian Supervisory Board. At its 32nd session, the Committee discussed the arrival of candidates, and all those who arrived within the deadline and who met the conditions laid down by law forwarded to representatives' clubs for compliance. Since there was no agreement between the clubs of representatives, the Committee on Information, Information and Media has decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the appointment of Sylvia Lux Kalođer as chairman of the Croatian Supervisory Board of the HRT and members of the Croatian Supervisory Board Željko Čagalja and Dr Antu Žigman. And on the proposal of the assembly minority clubs for member of the HRT Supervisory Board, Orsat Miljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67339	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the HDZ club, Mrs. Representative Sunana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67340	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. As my colleague Stazic said on behalf of the board, the HDZ Club will support this proposal or a proposal for appointment. As you know by adopting the new Law on HRT, newspapers are also introduced, so the Supervisory Board of 5 members, 4 according to the law, we will confirm here in the Croatian Parliament, and 5 members of the Supervisory Board on the proposal of HRT employees. What I would like to draw attention to is that the members of the Supervisory Board will, above all, take care of the financial operations of HRT in the past years, and as last year when the law was passed, have often indicated that HRT has not fulfilled its public function enough, has not been transparent enough or in an unsatisfactory way to conduct and demonstrate its financial operations. The members of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed for 4 years and I think that the procedure for which we have decided to do so through the Information and Media Committee is correct. There were other ideas, but here we finally agreed and all the clubs to keep the procedure like this. I don't think there's any longer. We have also heard that the Croatian Assembly is also proposed to appoint Sivia Lux Kalođer as chairman of the HRT Supervisory Board and already listed three members with it for members of the Supervisory Board. The HDZ Club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67341	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67342	Unfortunately, I have to correct the allegations, but it's just not true that the clubs have agreed. There was no match. Three members of the Supervisory Board are elected on the parliamentary majority proposal and one member on a parliamentary minority proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67343	HNS representative club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67344	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. By adopting the new Law on HRT as the founder of HRT, the Croatian Parliament has taken on a large part of the burden of responsibility for trying to resuscitate the state of the public broadcaster or service, which is not only us but also a large part of the public, I would say national treasures because it is a public information service whose role in many segments is still unchanged. The change of the whole series of solutions in the law defining the way HRT works and the management of it as a system, but also monitoring the programme that will be defined under the contract between the HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the future at the annual level is an opportunity to improve the situation on HRT in the future. The situation on HRT is extremely difficult and it's in multiple fields and from multiple cancers watching. First of all, the HRT as a business system undergoes a severe crisis, financial uncertainty, losses, a crisis that has forced the temporary directorship of course not only the crisis, but also the Government, to take very radical measures under the auspices of the rationalisation of the business system, which makes up 3.5 thousand people. I warned that this is an opportunity that some unwitting people will not miss that some of the most creative people are being driven out of Croatian broadcasting just because they are completely incomprehensible, illogically 10, 12 or more years of being held in the status of outsiders even though they are next to several hundred people who have been constantly doing nothing for years and the heart and brain of a large part of the programme, i.e. engines of a large number of emissions and productions, both on the radio and on television. Almost overnight, several hundred part-time Croatian radiotelevisions, none of which had lazily lazily but had made bloody money on their kuna, were left without a seat, without a desk, without a desk, and chased to the road without any possibility of crossing the port of HRT, while those who had worked on Croatia's radiotelevision days long ago had the news that they would have to work with indignity and great surprise. We heard the interim principal who said the regulations wouldn't let him get rid of them. That's what my Dalmatians would say if you didn't know what you wanted or what would be worse, if you knew what you wanted, but you won't say it in public. Interpersonal relations on Croatian radio television have been markedly disturbed precisely because the space has received a certain number of people who have come along the political line and are mostly not working or have not worked until now, and what space and influence have lost those who have been good workers. Human relations are, of course, marred by the increasing incidence of censorship in Croatian broadcasting where the creative ability is actually stifled, i.e. the creativity of most of the very responsible people whose face of creativity and so far shown results have been based on the quality of the programme, and often ratings. Speaking of viewers, this kind of pressure on television production certainly had a reflection in reducing the ratings of a whole series of shows and I'd say programs, whole programs. On the other hand, almost all relevant political shows on Croatia's broadcasting have been abolished, it becomes as vomity as a Styrofoam. No more content, no more room for conflict of opinion, more space to find a new value and promote new ideas in critical discourse. Can Croatian Radio Television continue to function under such circumstances, of course not. And that is why a change in the entire set of standards in the functioning of Croatia's radiotelevision through the new law was necessary. The introduction of the Supervisory Board as a new institute, as a new instance that participates in the management of the resources available to Croatian Radio Television, a new institute tasked with overseeing the way the Director of Croatian Radio Television works, the way the Directorate manages public funds entrusted to Croatian television, the way human resources is one of the most important changes in the Law on Croatian Television. We have a great opportunity to understand that the Supervisory Board is one of those levers through which the founder of Croatian radiotelevision will achieve direct public interest in a way that prevents public money from being poured out, non-transparent spending, spending in the manner of bad master or poor governance. So, the interest of the Croatian Parliament is that the Supervisory Board chooses those who are truly up to the task because for the first time the Supervisory Board actually enters the structure of the management of Croatian broadcasting as a whole new body and it is not a whole new body and it cannot be no matter who is sitting on the Supervisory Board, and especially who is leading it because tomorrow the management of that system of 3,500 people or how many of them will be, will come before the Supervisory Board with development plans, with programme and business plans, with balances, with reports. If the people who sit on the Supervisory Board are not only able to read and understand these documents, but also if there are those who are not able to assess the content, the quality of what is reported or the intentions of what is planned, then the Supervisory Board will not be able to perform the role that the law or Croatian Parliament is giving him as founder. Clearly, it is clear that the Supervisory Board is not and cannot be a place where only financial and economic experts will sit. The Supervisory Board must be a multidisciplinary body where people who will understand the profession will sit, but who will first of all be close to the subject of governance and management not only of human resources but also of public resources, i.e. the means entrusted to Croatian broadcasting in the provision of public information service. It is therefore good for the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Assembly to appoint people of different profiles and professions, just as the law has prescribed, that some of them must have a habitually respectable experience in both the media and the economy as such. However, we have before us a proposal that does not take advantage of the opportunity we have given the new law in that element called the appointment of the chairman of the Supervisory Board. We had a great opportunity, first of all the ruling majority because she's doing it, she's proposing three members of the Supervisory Board, among them as president. After all the affairs, after all the scandals in which Croatia is a democratic community with not one but more addresses accused by law or without taking care of public interest, public funds and public money. She has now had the opportunity to show that in this fight against corruption and the poor management of public funds and public money she is willing to raise the standard and ask for more than is prescribed to take her part of the responsibility and to take the role she herself plays in the fight against economic difficulties, in the fight against corruption, in the fight against the poor management of public funds. Did HDZ take advantage of that? Unfortunately not. A proposal for the chairman of the Supervisory Board to be Mrs. Sylvia Lux to go below that standard. I'm sorry. I don't intend to talk about Mrs. Lux from any of the rakurs, especially not to assess her expertise in the business she's been doing all her life because she's everything but an unknown person. She was quite prominent in her work and I doubt it could be said for most people in Croatia that they know nothing about her or that they cannot assess the achievements of her professional journalistic work. We may be able to say this for younger people who have not been following what she has been doing over the past decades, but we, a little older one, know very well who, in this sense and in this context of professional action has been working, and Mrs. Sylvia Lux, who has had that opportunity, and I would say the privilege of dealing with this kind of journalism, above all, with television that is very visible. However, this is about the management of the Supervisory Board being a responsible task in which knowledge of some of the fundamental economic legalitys of governance of systems, human resources management is a elemental matter. The chairman of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television or the President must be persons who know how to read business documents, balance sheets, business proposals, business plans and the report. I'm not sure we've guessed, I'm not sure we were at the height of the mission. I am sorry that HDZ and the parties supporting it in this House have not been able to raise, maintain and guarantee that during the next period to which members of the Supervisory Board and the chairman of the Supervisory Board will be appointed, standards and requirements will rise and simply strengthen public demand for higher quality, for a higher level of control and for better and better management of public funds available to Croatia. We had a chance, you had a chance. You're missing it too at the HNS club, HSU's sorry about that because this opportunity doesn't come out every day. So when we vote on this proposal, we will be abstentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67345	Thank you. Three corrections. The first lady representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67346	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Beus has made several incorrect allegations, or I could even say an insult. So, whatever the media is about, I think it's inadmissible to say that television is becoming vomit. In this case, he referred to Croatian broadcasting. I believe it is about the creative industry and whatever this creative industry in this case, public television submits a report to the Croatian Parliament and is receiving support it must not be limited in its independence and independence. I'll also correct your inaccuracies. I don't know why you're doing so much HDZ. HDZ doesn't care about public money, it goes below the standard you said about the election or Mrs. Sylvia Lux Kaloger's proposal as chairman of the Supervisory Board. I will remind you only of a part of the article of the law on members of the Supervisory Board where it says that two members of the Supervisory Board must have at least 10 years of work experience in the field of finance, and one member of the Supervisory Board shall have at least 10 years of work experience in the field of media services, television and radio activities. So, my colleague Beus, he sees everything from this. I think you're very well-versed, so I think this was a little intentional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67347	Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67348	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Beus said in his presentation a number of incorrect allegations. You're saying today what is really not true is that some of the candidates, whether for a member or for a president proposed by the parliamentary majority, do not have a qualification for it. You've had 15 days to agree. You didn't look back on a single sentence of the proposed candidates. So, don't, you're making false claims today. Remember that these members have been elected and we have established this on the committee in accordance with the law, that all three members proposed by the parliamentary majority are also members and presidents fully eligible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67349	Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67350	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would also correct the incorrect assumption, one of which is that Croatian television is vomit, and that is equal to Bleeding [[Don't lie, Mrs. twilight!]] In fact, it's bluish. [[/Intruder Beus: First learn the Croatian language and differences in the distinction of meaning. Shame.]] [[Intruder Shakespeare: Peace.]] I don't think so. It is a Croatian radio television, and it would be the same vomit if we listened to the expression on it, hovering. I'm sorry, I'm also in high school and college and my master's degree. I don't know these expressions, so I'd like to ask for a representative to use terms that mean something. And secondly, I ask you nicely, he may know what it means, but here's an explanation, and secondly, the government doesn't care about public finances. Water, water only you weren't here and you didn't raise your hand to the Fiscal Responsibility Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67351	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, the Supervisory Board on HRT is new. It was introduced in this law that was passed, made in one I would dare tell a desirable law-making procedure. It was conducted by a broad public debate, in which all interested parties could be involved. Already in the adoption of this law, I expressed my gratitude, support, support, praise to the Ministry of Culture and former Minister Biskopić, which I am doing now, because this is a rare example of how laws should be passed in Croatia at all. In a broad public debate, where all interested people have the right to state their views, but not only have the right to state it, but many views, many proposals in this public debate, have been respected and included in the law. He experienced significant changes between the first and second readings, and was eventually adopted by the will of most clubs, if not all clubs in this House. Me, and the SDP club, we have no doubt in advance of the ability and honor of any proposed member of this Supervisory Board. We'll evaluate them later, according to their work. I hope everyone is aware of their great responsibilities. Their mission will not be just to control the operation of HRT, which so far has not been through a body like this, and it is good to introduce it. One of their most important tasks will be participation, along with members of the Programme Council in the selection of new administrations. It is a good legal solution that, together with the Programme Council as a common body for the occasion, they will have to choose a two-thirds majority from a new principal. That makes for a consensus, and that's a good solution. This avoided the great danger of Croatian etatization, which existed between the first and second readings of the law. It is therefore their responsibility to choose among those who report to the competition the most capable man around whom all of the two-thirds majority will be able to agree, the most capable person to lead this large and important institution. The Croatian broadcasting is now being run by a temporary administration, which also has a great responsibility. It must adopt a statute that will regulate the structure of the HRT, because it has not been established by this law, it is an important, complicated task, and the future of the HRT depends on it. And it must prepare a temporary contract with the government. The importance of that temporary contract is that I don't have enough big words to describe it. The contract will define public functions, the public obligations of HRT, so those programmes, those emissions, may not be entirely individual to the emissions, but those content that can be financed by public money. The quality of the contract depends on the quality of the programme. It's the task of this temporary administration. I have to say that this temporary administration has been working, so it's still working under difficult conditions. It was threatened, a year and a half ago by reducing the fee, that kind of bill came and came to the Parliament, and then it was withdrawn, which would mean throwing HRT on its knees in financial terms, making it dependent on the budget, from the government, and therefore obedient, because the one who has to knock on the government door to get money to pay his employees is not independent, nor can be independent. There is no software independence without financial independence, it is quite clear. That death was to the best of luck avoided. The temporary administration was constantly exposed to another threat, which is tolling VAT on the fee from some of Pasalic's old times. The threat is equally dangerous, if this VAT charge for HRT would be financially broken, the same scenario would happen. This is the institution established by the Republic of Croatia and which is responsible under the Law on Institutions for the financial situation of that institution. So if there is a financial breakdown, the Government must maintain HRT from the budget. The government would no doubt do so, would not allow HRT to go bankrupt, but it would create a software dependence on the government. And that threat wasn't achieved by luck, but as a threat, it kept hanging in the air. She was raised by a sword that could come down at any moment, when the prime minister or prime minister decided after him. Under such conditions, it is not easy to run a house because it creates a constant pressure. Program changes also took place under pressure. Some shows, "Latin" that have a long tradition and have become a brand of HRT overnight, have not, had not been designed for a new show, of a similar type. That "Latin" not only was a brand, it was opening, it was the only show on HRT that was opening some topics that didn't open on other shows. And that's why it's being abolished, meaning the reduction of public space or free speech in the public service. The "Open" show was canceled, and here I read about it yesterday on the portals and a European Parliamentarian, in temporary... HRT, and says the political pressure of HDZ and the government on HRT must stop because otherwise it will be an obstacle to Croatia's entry into the European Union. [[You don't understand.]] That's what one of the parliamentarians wrote yesterday. I do not know what the power of this Parliamentarian is, how much he expresses the views of the European Union, the European Commission, whether it is an individual action, or whether it represents one European position towards the HRT. I don't know. We'll see about that next day. I received a lot of requests yesterday to hold a session and a press committee to discuss the subject. I'll wait, I won't rush, I'll wait and see how that thing develops, but we certainly can't push it under the carpet, we can't play noise birds. The SDP trusts this temporary directorship and gives it full support to these affairs I spoke about, which is making statutes and a temporary contract, do in the best way and responsibly. He has confidence that this temporary directory and temporary director will manage to lead the house to the election of a new administration. The SDP also trusts new bodies. The supervisory board that we're voting this week, the Programme Council that we're going to vote on when the procedure is carried out. There have been 40 applications, we've sent them to clubs, we invite clubs to be held accountable because it's one of the most important tasks. It doesn't matter who gets elected to that body. No party can be partyed in this respect, but partying does not make sense because no party can achieve a two-thirds majority under this law structure. It is therefore pointless to place some people there who will be only and exclusively obedient foreigners because they will not be able to execute the party's order, they will not have a sufficient majority. It is therefore the responsibility of clubs to select the best of these 40 that have come forward by forming that body. Best and most responsible. And in that belief that the law is good, in that belief that the people we elect today on the board of directors and that tomorrow we will be elected to the Programme Council in that religion, in that good faith, the SDP will vote for the proposed candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67353	Thank you. Three corrections. First, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67354	Thank you very much. Well, it is an incorrect allegation in one part where counterpart Stazic said that the government's HDZ threats must stop according to HRT. I have to tell my colleague Stazic... Of course not, from the pay phone now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Look, my colleague Stazic started speaking quite well, and that's all right, what he said so far, I even liked it. But then again, I guess that excess energy and lack of control of it actually comes out. Well, look, fellow Stazic, in no way is any threat to HDZ. Neither did HDZ lift the Open, nor did the HDZ lift Latina on what you said here, but the fact is that the SDP has been very much holding back the work of the Programme Council which plays an important role in the realisation of the HRT programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67355	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67356	So listen, Vice President, so Article 209, so I made it clear that it's a statement of the Europarliamentary, not mine. Because he has Mr. Kunst to correct my allegations if he's quoting someone else's quote. Get him to fix the Europarliamentary and let him write to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67357	Mr Kunst specifically corrected your claim because this well-known and highly respected parliamentarian called on you and you to him. You call on him. This distinguished parliamentarian he watches HRTs, he watches, he monitors Latina, he follows the Open, he follows the Business Club. This esteemed euro-parliamentary is very much in the function of a specific policy for the closure of Chapter 23. Very esteemed, yes. And Mrs. Representative Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67358	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will correct the words of Croatian Parliamentarian Stazic, who said he was clearly the political pressure of HDZ. My colleague Stazić and then you end up denying yourself so you invite us all to get along just as well as we agreed at the end about the final Law on HRT. So, I ask, is the law done with the intention of HRT being something other than a stable house with effective management, and that is the law as you know it is proposed by the government, the coalition government headed by the HDZ and fully prepared for this public Croatian broadcasting for action under the conditions of Croatia's membership in the EU. So I don't also know this Europarliamentary he probably keeps track of what's going on on HRT. And you also said there was going to be a decrease in public space which is not true because two more channels are opening and the public space is increasing, and I wouldn't say it's shrinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67359	Mr. Representative Bozo Bishop, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a colleague, Stazic, mentioned by the European Parliamentarian, but in his debate, he said he had full confidence in the directorship. If he has full confidence in the principalship, and the directorship has not complained to the SDP about the pressure of some political parties specifically HDZ, which is incorrect, because HDZ is not putting pressure on anyone, and this is a very modern law proposed by the government and brought by this body here, a law which, one of the more modern in Europe, will certainly mention what fellow Stazic is also, which will certainly contribute to and develop, further development of HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67361	Ms. Representative Karolina Leakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I would like to start this brief discussion with a brief review of the government's decision taken at a closed session last week and a public statement through the Public Relations Office. So, in that statement, it says that the government did not accept an addendum to the HRT restructuring programme, and I would also remind myself that this is actually another refusal to such a programme that the current directorship received because in November the government also refused the Croatian R & D restructuring plan at a closed session. However, we did not know what the Government would actually, which would satisfy the Government, that is, what the Croatian Government would want the HRT to do, or temporary directorship, because in a written answer which I received about this particular issue from the Prime Minister on 12 January this year, it says that the restructuring plan is actually a document that is not available to the public because it is therefore a working document which will be available after adoption, and as we can see it will obviously not be adopted, so the public will in fact remain deprived of information about what is happening on HRT in terms of restructuring and reorganisation. On the other hand, this other reluctance received by the temporary principalship is also talking about the fact that he may be better off trying no more because he is clearly unable to make the necessary cuts, or what the Government is asking him to do. I don't know what these cuts are and what the government is asking him to do because I've been denied that information, but in any case, I plead that the law begins to be implemented as soon as possible, and this is, in some way, a good step forward today. It is good that we are already able to discuss the HRT Supervisory Board today because it is a step towards the formation of HRT in accordance with the new Law that in some way this uncertainty, most of the employees of Croatian broadcasters, are actually in a state of latent combat, i.e. concerns about their jobs, and that they could finally start talking to responsible people, with a mandate that has been verified and what HRT needs to do in the next period. I would certainly take a brief look at what Croatian television as public television and commercial television in Croatia, as well as other entities performing audiovisual activities have in terms of audiovisual activities, i.e. in the budget of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre. In response to the question that I also asked the Ministry of Culture in November last year, about how many and which entities are paying at the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, means support for audiovisual activities, especially Croatian film, so it says that in fact HRT in one part meets those obligations, while commercial TV with national concession means RTL, Nova TV, and some other bonds, I was interested in Croatian Telecom, so they do not respect the Law on Audiovisual Activities and do not pay certain amounts and legal amounts to support Croatian Film. According to the information provided by the Ministry, HRT paid 12 million kuna for 2009, which is not even close to what HRT should and should be able to allocate, but in the HABS, they are satisfied with the fact that better than nothing, while other TV and Croatian telecoms mentioned continue to refuse to pay in the Law prescribed amounts to the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, and are indeed causing direct damage to Croatian film and culture, and once again from this place I appeal as they did last week, and Croatian filmmakers at the presentation of the national programme of audiovisual activities in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that this practice is finally being done and that there is a way for the most responsible people in the media world to finally bring themselves into line with their obligations. HRT is, of course, the central partner of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre in meeting the basic public needs in film and television production, it is irreparable, it has a central role and, as it stands in the mentioned national programme, HAVS expects from HRT 20 million euros of direct investment in drama, documentary and programme for children and young people, and it may not be important here to say that HRT made the last television film in 2006, the last mini series of 2008, meaning that the new administration, whose component and supervisory board should certainly work to meet Article 9(5). The law on HRT which prescribes that HRT is obliged to cultivate, encourage, produce, develop or co-produce various forms of domestic audio and audiovisual and multimedia creation that contributes to the development of Croatian culture, art and entertainment. To also expand knowledge about audiovisual culture and heritage and contribute to the international presentation of Croatian Cultural Identity, such as to produce and publish programmes played, documentary, animated and related audiovisual works, and to encourage the development of an independent production sector of audio and video content. So, the Supervisory Board, and its role is therefore extremely important in this regard and therefore we must not care who sits on the Supervisory Board and who sits on the Programme Council. In particular, in Article 16 of the Treaty on the The law on HRT states that the responsibilities of HRT as well as the public's influence on its activities are realised in particular by the work of the HRT Supervisory Board which ensures the management of the resources for the operation of HRT with the attention of a good economic operator. It is therefore very important who we appoint to the Supervisory Board because they have powers in the management of the funds and many others. From decisions, together with the Council, on administration, the adoption of the Statute, the work programme, the financial plan, the contract between the HRT and the Government, etc. In that sense, I would only finally warn that I am not sure that all members of the supervisory board of the future have the necessary knowledge, but I would not get too far into it. I want to believe that despite the different natures of which some of them are conflicting, as history has shown, that they will succeed in finding a common language and that despite all differences, they will work together to make HRT truly public television to which we can be proud and not to mention representatives from the Croatian Parliament and some others feel invited to speak and comment on the work and program of HRT because it is a disgrace not only for HRT but also for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67363	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67364	Thank you very much. Well, at the beginning of her presentation, she said she didn't even know what was going on and how the restructuring on HRT was going, which is incorrect. The owner knows everything, and I believe that you should know as a representative that Croatian Radio Television once a year submits a report on its work to which you can react as you will and know from it everything is seen. So it's a completely incorrect claim. Secondly, I also welcome what exactly Croatian Radio Television is doing that precisely those fees that got fired, broke the contracts back to work, normally according to some expertise and according to knowledge and ability.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67365	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am pleased that we all agreed that the new Law on Croatian Radio Television is good, first of all with a lot of praise for the holders of the Ministry of Culture and all those who participated in the Round Tables and all of us who agreed and proposed and voted the Law. There's nothing to argue about. What's new in this law is first and foremost the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board will certainly change everything that is happening on Croatian TV because the biggest problem was about finance. The previous administration, and it has been going on for many years, but the financials have been extremely bad, there have been lobbys that have pushed private productions, often their own private productions, there have been clans, there have been quite a struggle which will win more money, in the whole story, and in fact they have lost everyone, lost viewers, lost all those who certainly want good to Croatian radio and who did not perform their public function as they should have. Clearly, restructuring such a large company is not easy and there is a need to think carefully about what in these conditions, therefore, what with these huge losses of HRT. And precisely the conditions, I repeat, the conditions for the Supervisory Board were to be two financial experts, over 10 years of internships that will take care of the management of large money, finally only from the subscription of more than a billion kuna, from all those who pay that fee to HRT for watching money that is huge. However, I listen to few of my predecessors who praise something here and there, but feel a hidden threat. Why the threat? If it's not the way we want it to be, we still have chapter 23 open, so we're going to hire our dear British Europarlementary to threaten you with a finger. Because probably if we watch BBC, he's looking at HRT in return and he knows everything that's going on here. And there were always people in Croatia who were knocking around foreign bosses to threaten their own people who were in power. Therefore, it works very conveniently. Clearly this includes both amnesty and etc. but a little attention should be paid to what Doris Pak said, which she called a shameful interference, so by re-mixing and re-creation of some tutor outside Croatia who will discipline the Croatian political scene. So the hidden threat could be heard from colleagues from Bus and Stazic here, only if you try anything will this be. What does it mean to try? We had a law that functioned complex during the SDP and it worked the way the SDP wanted it and it lasted not too long. It lasted as long as the members of the programming council were selected inside, and when they started to change, it stopped working. And at the end of the last years, the SDP has been blocking the work of the programming council, not wanting to elect alternate members, while all those who were elected by the SDP have resigned and the story ends with the temporary administration, which I hear the praises of at once today, very conveniently. So, until now, I've never heard of it all being evil, this temporary directorship was supposed to take it out, take it all away together. Today, here's all the best about the temporary directorship, so I don't really know what's going on. At the same time, it's a grudge to shut down some shows. If we're talking about the program, we can all say anything. Namely, anyone can be a coach of football, handball team and television, etc. So everyone has their objective or less objective and more subjective theater. I agree with that. But that for every show that seems good to us, we have to cry if there is, there is no, whether any survived, has outlived the time that now. I am not surprised that fellow Stazic resents being lifted Open because he was there at least twice a week, a regular guest there. He had the opportunity to tell everything he wanted, so actually the Open was more dedicated to him than to anyone else, not just from the political assembly, but from any politician. Okay. The fact is no longer has my picture on television so I'm unhappy, I objectively can understand it. That's it. But the fact is, really, let's do the show. It's hard and boring. Every day the same. There are not as many topics as television can open these topics to spin for an hour. The decline in ratings was also great. And I think in this game that we've set up for HRTs in collecting paid EPP minutes, so these propaganda messages, they're going to have to work a little harder and do something more. Because the fact is that HRTs that the huge decline in ratings was an information program, which is what we should objectively look at others to see what others say. It was also a number of years ago when on TV the most money was being spent on some private channels, that emissions from culture, tradition of Croatian people, and clearly all others living in these areas were neglected. So, there were no folklore, no entertainment, almost nothing, there was just a debate of all possible duels that were clearly with the intended guests, envisaged analysts. The same names appeared then, and unfortunately they appear today, we listen on the radio and on television every day the same people comment on the same way. So television has to work hard for the radio to make an effort to change it, to include a larger number of people, a greater number of opinions. Finally, even if listeners end up with some kind of contact show, they're the same people again. So that's where the important shifts need to be made, and first of all, to control again I speak finance. These huge finances led to the fact that the lobbies were actually firing from television, driving away all those who were creative, who could do it themselves, and they were buying from outside, brotherly, friendly, their own productions of expensive shows that cost everyone who paid. I don't know 60, 80 kunas today, some kind of subscription, and in return they got very, very little. So, we can agree that we should believe in all those that we are going to propose here and choose to choose exactly the quality management and that it will not, as it was imagined in 2003, be party television, do all the work that HRT has to do and that in the whole story it will be a good, good control of finances, because the whole problem of television is exactly that. And politics was actually just some kind of packaging where someone more found themselves and someone less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67367	Thank you. Three replicas. First Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67368	I don't know if at this point that you spoke this session was transmitted by HRT and I don't know if they're watching the transfer of European parliamentarians, but I'm sure it's being watched by members of the diplomatic representations in the Republic of Croatia and that's the report from their government. And these governments then pass it on to their members of the European Parliament, representatives of those countries in the European Parliament. And those people are gonna have to stay confused after this speech of yours. Croatia is trying to become a member of the European Union as soon as possible, so to obtain the right to send its own representatives to the European Parliament. Perhaps tomorrow you will represent Croatia in the European Parliament. I would not like any European country to speak of you as a representative of Croatia in the European Parliament in the way you have now spoken in a European Parliamentarian. I would consider it an insult to Croatia and an insult to you as our representative in the European Parliament. Therefore, I hope that this speech of yours will not reach the representatives of Europe because it would have to worry them more than HRT's behaviour. The HRT still doesn't make elected representatives of the people and citizens, and here you are. So if you citizens are talking about the European Parliament and European Parliamentarians this way, I am concerned about our journey to Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67369	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67370	Well, that's what I wanted to hear. So, the threats that were a little wrapped up in the cellophane in his debate were finally public because you colleagues of Stazic and some other associations like you have been suing around all the time, and I guess you're asking to be put in charge of Croatian television, Croatian politicians, so I guess you'll be God's whip in Croatia politics. Well, we're a parliamentary country, here they've been elected, here are the MPs and the MPs have been elected to the elections that may well be managed by their own state. And again you mention someone watching it, someone following it, we're gonna get pucks. Why, I don't see why. Again, we're looking for a foreign tutor who will tell us but, you know, you've made a mistake, and now Markovanovic has made a mistake, but Stazic is innocent, I guess we'll raise him up, we'll help him on the side to make sure everything that's going on in Croatia and what you're actually trying to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67371	Ms. MP Ljubica Lukačić, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67372	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Markovanovic, I fully agree with your exposure, but I need to say something else. It seems to me that all previous speakers are, and I don't understand why, today here they're talking about everything more than the members we're proposing for the HRT Supervisory Board. I have to admit that here in some way I can't understand it because after the law was passed, we all talked about how it is in our interest to appoint the Supervisory Board as soon as possible, to appoint members of the Programme Council and to finally get the best possible way to operate in accordance with the new law. So it seems to me that some today express doubts at all about the credibility of these people, some hope that they may do their job well and speak more about everything else than they do about themselves. I think we need to give people a chance to start doing their job as quickly as possible, and here I am in some way thinking that it would be finally time to stop dealing with all these past and disagreements between the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority that I think here are the opposition MPs saying whenever they have nothing to say, in this case, about the proposed candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67373	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67374	So here's colleague Lukacic, the fact is that we're dealing with too much looks with a political profile or gossip or a yellow press about every man who's been proposed for any function. It would be really correct and good to say, I'm saying what the colleagues in the opposition should say, but now this candidate has, can't do this, I don't believe it's going to be like that but in general, first of all, about the program, and now this show has been downloaded, and now if you new ones don't put that show back on, then we're going to call back there in the world, in Europe, and then you're going to see. Well, we can't do that, so we're choosing by the law that we've all praised, which we've all brought, we're choosing the Supervisory Board, and these days we're going to choose the Programme Council, which, together with the Supervisory Board, should be elected by management as soon as possible. The temporary manager can't do miracles there, he can't because there's no power, because everyone's watching today, he's not there tomorrow. And there needs a strong administration that will clear up the situation on Croatian TV in such a way that it will go to quality as well as to save, because Croatian broadcasting needs it first. There are dissatisfactions, you have cases to say if anyone is suggested to lead the Diaries to organise the strike of the other leaders. So where is it, where is it, just because it seems that some objective comment just doesn't match the taste I don't know who there is. It really needs to be solved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67375	And Mr. Representative Peter Selem, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67376	Mr. Vice-President, I just want to supplement what my colleague Markovović said earlier, which is the collapse of cultural content on Croatian radio and the hope that the new administration that will now be chosen will stop this collapse and, in fact, do something to bring these cultural contents back to Croatia. I'll only give three examples. Serious music that was once one of the essential facts of Croatian broadcasting quality was pushed into late nights. You can watch a show of serious music, a video of a concert and opera if you're suffering from a insomnia, if you can hold it till midnight, 1, 2, 3 hours then you can watch it. Secondly, it gave up completely on one of the media on which Croatia, once the Zagreb Radio Television, was known, which was radio drama, TV drama. TV dramas are no longer recorded at all. There are even TV shows that are actually movies made in co-production with television and are then shaped as a series of three, four, five extensions, but this is not the medium by which Croatia /Zagrebačka) television was known, and it is a pure original TV drama. And thirdly, the recording of theatre shows. Before Croatian television and Zagreb TV, by filming performances and presenting all over Croatia and expanding what is created in the Croatian theatre, a valuable foundation for the history of Croatian theatres is created at the same time. So, high-quality footage. It seems to me that these three examples suggest that a really new administration should commit itself to restoring the cultural integrity of Croatian broadcasting that it once had and what it absolutely needs as a national medium. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67377	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67378	Here I thank my colleague but some day an article came out as interesting as there is on not only Croatian TV but other TV shows of Mexican series. Now they're in the trend of the Turkish series. All right, all right. Commercial TVs want to make money in their own way, let them do whatever they want. But that in the prime time out there right after lunch and during lunch, a cheap Mexican series on the first Croatian radio show I think it's below all levels, and the shows, quality shows to show up or at an early hour somewhere in the morning, I don't know early Saturday or Sunday or late at night when no one's watching. Now, that's what Croatian broadcasting should not be. The normal tradition that Croatian Radio Television had to promote culture after all, to promote the spirit of finally this people and this country. I think it must continue, and let cheap things be left to others who earn in another way, who do not have the means provided, and for these means secured and must go exactly that contract that we are talking about, the contract between the Croatian Radio Television or the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which Croatian broadcasting will have to propose both quality and for that quality will receive money. And so far, it's not like everyone's actually paying, and that's where anybody's doing what they want, and most of all for their own benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67379	At 10.41, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Vice-President of the House Željka Antunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is very interesting today to listen to this debate, and regarding the final decision we must make on who will be sitting on the HRT Supervisory Board and overseeing business. But it seems to me a lot wider than the very narrow business on Croatian television or making even more important decisions. It is interesting to listen to this debate because it is very, very charming and shows in fact a number of attempts to politically promote certain attitudes or individuals, and less to talk about the essence of the agenda point, as a colleague pointed out earlier. But I don't think that's really the problem. One such broad discussion of this matter is not bad. It opens up some more questions that I think need to be discussed and that a consensus needs to be reached in order to achieve what we all want and advocate in a different way by using different methods, including different discussions. So today we have listened to two very well-founded discussions of representatives of Selem or of MP Leaković who are people of profession and experience in their fields related to Croatian broadcasting as a medium and who spoke very objectively, very well, perhaps inappropriately or not closely related to this point. But really in place. At the same time, we had the opportunity to listen and discuss which way I would conclude that a good part of our colleagues thinks that in fact their rights to the task or best to carry out that task if they were editors on Croatian radio, because they know what time to go, whether something is necessary or not. In fact, they're dealing not even with the work of the Programme Council, but with journalistic, editorial work, copyright work. And I find it really strange why, which is why they are doing this political work, which is why all their knowledge, knowledge and experience have not been put into the role of strengthening Croatian broadcasting. Of course there's a little cynicism here in my debate, but no evil intentions. I, colleagues and colleagues, belong to those representatives who are always the best TV in Croatia and even in the whole region, regardless of the legal solution, regardless of the political environment, political time and political power. And all of my discussions, all of my efforts, all of my participation in the adoption of different legal solutions during this period were aimed at maintaining that quality, i.e. to strengthen it at times when it became evident that under pressure from commercial televisions and under different other pressures of profit, politics, politics, this Croatian broadcasting loses its quality and ceases or becomes an increasingly public service that needs to promote public content from national but not only national but in the broadest sense and public interest, educational, cultural and all others. And that he falls on his knees before a god called profit, which is ratings, which is called marketing, which is called money. We have repeated here a hundred times that the condition of public television, that the condition of the existence of public television, is secure and stable funding independent of any of these influences on the side, and it is our duty to make such a decision and it seems to me that we have finally reached consensus even though there have been different withdrawals during the previous periods. We can agree or disagree on some kind of minute, etc. But in any case, stable funding and other independence is the professional independence of all those who work on television and who need to answer. In my view, too, we have a zero position well achieved with a good law by which professionalism in Croatian broadcasting should show how worthy the words of professionalism are because there are both such and such professionals and most of the time is spent in discussions who is a major professional, who is a major right-wing or left-wing rather than being left-handed and right-handed in those media doing their job. The second part of the story that we are going to decide here today concerns the selection of bodies that will be monitored and managed by television, and which you will not forget will play a key and crucial role in choosing the directorship, those who are most directly responsible for what we have put through the law as a condition for both directorship and professionals, or editors and journalists and all other professional associates in Croatian broadcasting. There was a talk here about it, that is, at the beginning of one of the poles that actually encouraged me to report for this debate, about having someone put some complaints on the individuals who are being run here today, and they'll probably be elected to the supervisory board, when it's all by law. I think it's one hell of a attitude, because if it's all legal, if someone meets the requirements of the law, it doesn't mean he's both the best or the right person and he'll do the best job he's running for. Each of these individuals has its own references, public references, which we here have to assess and assess whether anyone is truly the best and most vulnerable to this job that does it. I don't want to engage here today in a debate on individual references and present my opinion and qualify for it, I have done so through a proposal for an opposition minority, which, by law, has the right precisely to balance the impact on these important bodies and the decisions they will make tomorrow, I have defined myself, and I am ready together with my colleagues to take responsibility for the later work of candidates or candidates, the candidates we have supported, which we have proposed and we know why we think we would be very good at working in that body. Covering yourself with the law and choosing for some other great people's jobs, but for this job, they blame people, which will show time whether it's like that, it's not good. Namely, if everything that is done by law is good, then today we wouldn't have a whole series of disappointed, disillusioned people without a job, as a consequence of some kind of privatisation that was done by law, and then it was all by law. And those numerous apartments from the former JNA quota, and later the Department of Defense were also shared and sold under the law. Remember that and try to accept that it is not our responsibility here to choose by law only, but to choose people who will be able to do the job. I don't really think and I don't want to, and I don't want to argue with anyone's qualifications to do that. I will keep my opinion on individual, about individuals who will be chosen for themselves today, but that is why I am warning of the public responsibility of all of us who have proposed, for every single individual, whether we have proposed a man with experience, a man who will be able to properly balance the different interests that are being cut and who will be cut down on that public media, influential media, not only when we talk about politics and our interests to be represented in this medium, but someone thinks that we need more drama, someone will always be drawn to the drawback, but if public television becomes, it stops being what it was, then we will all be responsible for that, along with those professionals there or less professionals, and it will not help us to cover ourselves with the law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67381	Thank you. One correction, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67382	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Antunovic, none of us here, at least of us MPs of the parliamentary majority, are covered by the law. When we talked about it that the procedure was in accordance with the law, I think we have the right to talk about it. In doing so, we had no reason to doubt that the candidate you proposed would not be properly and honestly doing his job, and be assured that we do not doubt the candidates we have proposed. Thank you very much. So it's not true that we're covering ourselves with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67383	And a replica, Mr. Representative Bozo Bishop.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So there's counterpart Antunovic, of course, agreed with colleague Lukačić that this was about the supervisory board and again it wasn't about the supervisory response, about the business, what is in the role of the supervisory board, but most of all, we all kind of meet in the programme council area in some way. Maybe that's a good thing. But what I particularly wanted to mention, colleague Antunovic was actually speaking critically about the charm of expressions in this House, and I think that this is the characteristic of this House, in fact, that this expression is such, that it is democratic, that it is very wide. I think in that case, when a colleague Markovanovic calls it pressure, it's part of his expression and, of course, that's totally fine. This should therefore not be critical of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67385	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67386	Well, my colleague Bishop didn't get me through. On the contrary, I think it's a good idea to have a charm in such bodies, because our citizenship is also charming. I don't think we should create some kind of elitist television, public television, I think there should be room on our public television for the most average soap opera, because that's what our audience is, and everyone has to get some of what he's interested in. But I wasn't talking about it, I was talking about that not everyone who meets the legal criteria is the right choice for a place, and it's not good to pretend that we don't know it, that we don't only have the right to invoke laws and legal criteria, but that we have to choose whole people, people with positive references. I did not enter into a debate about who has any reference, I deliberately abstained, but I warned of the responsibility of all of us in this story, because remember this is a much less important decision, a much more important decision will be made by these members of the Supervisory Board when they choose the principal, when they choose the headmaster, people who will have to operate on all the tasks given by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67387	Does the Proposer want a representative? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Secondly, the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and three members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. Proposer of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and three members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. I find that, with 87 votes for and 6 abstentions, a decision has been proposed in the text as proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67390	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be very brief, the report is in front of you. I will only draw attention to two things that were initiated at this session on this body in 2008, so in the 2008 report, which is that the Parliament has put us in charge or suggested that we work out and answer the question of how science can help get out of the crisis. The core of the document that is in one part before you, in the other part you will receive it 21 this month when you will receive the 2010 Report on the Science Development Strategy, i.e. the Action Plan. I would like to say that the National Council for Science comes from the assumption that a quality shift in the exit from the crisis of Croatia and other countries can be expected mostly from science. Which in other words means that there is a need to strengthen the so-called. the innovative policy of our country, i.e. the innovation culture. And that's actually the key word and this document. I will just remind myself that countries that were in crisis from the United States and the EU have put science first in this crisis and concrete proposals and measures are in this text and I will not repeat them. I would also ask you to look at this proposal in the context of our document The Action Plan for Encouragement in Investment in Science and Research, which will be the subject of the 2010 Report, i.e. the Science Development Strategy and just such an integrated proposal, is then also a proposal from the National Council. I would also like to point out that before the National Council there was a problem in defining the criteria of improvement in calling because we think that there was a steady inflation of calling in Croatia and that a broad consensus was reached that the introduction of quantitative criteria contributed to increasing the scientific productivity of Croatia. Croatia is located somewhere in the shadowy parameters of countries that are slightly more developed in the EU, but now the time has come for these criteria to be redefined and I must say here as president of the National Council we have had quite a resistance to the academic community and we still have. And tightening the criteria and introducing so-called. the economic parameters in the criteria mean the patent, developmental technological parameters that have now entered into this proposal for new criteria have been strongly adopted. In the end, I would only mention the problem, i.e. the issue of the National Foundation for Science. The National Council for Science assesses the need to financially strengthen the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development in order to take over the central place in the financing of high-quality scientific projects as well as to provide funding for the establishment of a trust fund. In 2009, we thought that a portfolio of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Development needed technologically to transfer securities to market values and since then we have proposed 2 billion kunas. I will do this, I will not burden you with other parts of this report just to say what I would say to the National Council, and to me as president lies at heart, and that is the question of how when we talk about the innovative culture of Croatia how to increase that culture. One of the most important factors is to bring in top-notch scientists from the diaspora. I can tell you in this place that there are several people who would come to Croatia and that would contribute to the development of Croatia. That's part of our proposal here. However, here I hope that the Ministry of Science will listen to this proposal and will again actually give opportunity to people who in science represent an important vertical in the world to come and work in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67391	Thank you. The Education and Science Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67392	Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable State Secretary, Council President Mr. Pavelic, Ms. MPs and Mr. MPs. We are today discussing the 2009 Report of the National Science Council, so we should focus on this period and on what seemed to be a scientific, technological policy and in 2009. Today, in the Croatian public, especially that academic and scientific community, a proposal for a new Law on Science and Higher Education is being discussed because some kind of public debate is taking place. From that point on, this report may not be so attractive, but I keep it very important to paint the development of scientific policy in the Republic of Croatia during 2009. However, it should be said that the scientific and technological policy of the Republic of Croatia is built on the high goals of designing research and development on the principles of excellence, harmonising with the European scientific and research heritage and harmonising our scientific system with a European developed world that makes Croatian science compatible with the developed world. It should be said, however, about this Report, that the Government asked for an indication before its adoption and that, on 9 November 2010, the Council for Science was presented to the Report on the observations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It seems that the National Science Council supports the creation of the document Science Strategy and is already proposing an integrated text at the end of 2010 that will be discussed, later adopted. Other issues concerning financing, the financial part of the report, which makes the Croatian Democratic Community Club aware of this report and we will propose a law in the end. However, what is extremely important for the scientific community and what seems to us that the National Science Council managed to do in 2009, and I would just briefly remind myself that the National Science Council is discussing issues of importance for scientific activity, and is proposing that measures be taken to improve it, in which it is really very precise in this 2009 report. DESCRIPTION of the Regulation on the evaluation of scientific organisations by the minister shall be accompanied by the development and establishment of scientific, artistic, field and branch areas. It is called the regional scientific, artistic councils, and parent committees for individual fields. It lays down the conditions for obtaining scientific titles, lays down the conditions that need to be met by scientific organisations in order to obtain the powers to conduct the election process in scientific callings, proposes the declaration of scientific centres of excellence and implements their evaluation. It gives an opinion on the establishment of scientific technology parks, etc. It is important to know that the professional and administrative tasks for the National Science Council are carried out by a specialised institution of the Agency for Science and Higher Education of the Republic of Croatia, and the financial resources for the work of the National Science Council shall be provided by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Also, the National Science Council has the task of identifying scientific and artistic fields of fields and branches, which we have here very interesting and I will talk a little bit more later. However, during the period from 1 April 2009 to 31 December 2009, the National Science Council held 8 independent sessions and 1 joint session with the National Council for Higher Education. In this address, I want to say more about the activities of the National Science Council, so you can see how complex work and complex work is and how crucial it is for the development of the entire scientific system there are a lot of technical jobs that need to be stopped, to develop this system, and I think it's very important to notice, because then it can be easier to monitor what it is today. It was designed during 2009 to change the structure, finance scientific research, from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development. The work on evaluation and quality and efficiency of scientific and professional work of scientific organisations was completed during 2008. New Regulation on scientific artistic areas, fields and branches adopted. A division of scientific fields and fields of first... and classification was adopted. It was initiated by adopting an international classification of education, to work on a new Regulation on conditions for selecting scientific titles that would partially replace quantitative criteria with qualitative ones. A debate has been launched on the rationalisation and restructuring of the network of public institutes, which is extremely important. The priorities of scientific research were discussed. The Regulation on amendments and amendments to the Regulation on the establishment and mode of operation of the Regional Council and of the parent committees has been adopted. Presidents and members of the Regional Scientific Councils, the Art Councils were appointed, members of the parent committees were appointed, the debate was completed on how science and technology can help get out of the crisis, which should certainly be commended, etc. Which says how complex and important these issues are, and I would have put it in context, we often lack an objective view of what seems and yesterday the vice president of the Croatian Academy said that the Croatian Academy has published 1.6 publications a week in the last 7 years, and I ask you how many publications we have read together that can be used to develop Croatia. So sometimes there are these great efforts that seem to be hidden and where people in these individual bodies work. I want to refer here to two more questions, which I find extremely important what was done in 2009, which is a rule on scientific, artistic fields and branches, and a summary of how science and technology can help get out of the crisis. Which I really think I can personally. I want to say, and what is extremely important to our science is that a Regulation on scientific artistic areas, fields and branches has been adopted. In addition to the 7 scientific and artistic fields that we had at the time, natural sciences, technical sciences, biomedicine, health care, biotechnical sciences, social sciences, humanities, the artistic field we got two new areas which is extremely important and this is an interdisciplinary area of science and art. Therefore, we have expanded and started to address the issue of interdisciplinaryism, multidisciplinaryism, which makes it extremely important and I personally remember as the secretary of state that this has been a lot of obstacles but constructive obstacles, but it is precisely to say that this Council led by Mr Pavelic has succeeded in expanding this space and making Croatia's science compatible with European and development. This refers to methods that became science, it refers to education, it refers to various links that are interdisciplinaryly and multidisciplinaryly happening, and it felt that just in 2009, it was not yet put to the end but it seems to be commendable and to say that it was very well done. And now I just want to take a brief look at how science and technology can help get out of the crisis. So, the thinking of scientists, and we all know today that science is the strength and education that can really change our status, our standard, society as a whole, and in 2009, we got one way or another here, so to speak. Some will think it's bad, I personally think it's good to think about it, because I think part of it is embedded in the government's strategy today because it's a general value that comes from different directions. So I will just briefly remind here that strengthening the cooperation of science, economy and administration, it is a recommendation, this reflection, the introduction of system development, governance in science, where it is thought that a body such as the Ministry of State Secretary for Science at the Ministry of Science, decentralisation of regionalisation, research and development within Croatia. The rise in efficiency monitoring, the scientific research projects, the impact indicator, there is always one inherited problem that many when you look at yourself you don't see, we often have so many projects but the question of how much these projects, their results, will be embedded in real life. And that's one question neither today nor since 2009, it's that question much, much longer in general how much longer we are able to accept the new solutions that we have passed on to life so quickly. All of us who have experience in this area know that high scientific results come very slowly into our textbooks to achieve, to encourage them to be modern. It's a permanent job, it's a job that can never stop, and it's there to perfect especially people in education and other professions. There is also a number of reflections aimed at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and further work on science, which highlights the import of the position of chief scientific adviser. I find it difficult to say that I am thinking, the principle of excellence in science we all accept, and I think that this is one of Croatia's ambitions to be something that drives excellence, something that lives something that we all encourage. Scientific research technology projects, the position of young scientists, we know that today we need to take good care of because today our higher institutions of science and at the university produce people who doctor and threaten to place themselves on the market later, this is the position of scientific recruits who, when their contract expires, are not extended lately. I have some experience myself. So it seems to me that you should consider how quality scientists who have managed to doctorate and have a good résumé and who show that they can find, get involved, but if the market accepts them better, but if they don't need the same solutions. Strengthening innovation potential and innovation policy are extremely important, they immediately include you at the same time at the world level because it is connected. The amendment of legislation for the purpose of changing ways of managing academic institutions, nationalisation, other measures such as the educational and scientific system, the state is clearly and uncompromisingly based on excellence, not elitism, to increase the publication for science, etc. But with all this, I would like to commend a series of efforts that have been made, but because of some shortcomings that have been made in this report, which may be unintentional, the HDZ Representatives Club is proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the next conclusion. A report on the 2009 work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia is being taken into account and we will support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67393	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67394	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Imported applicants. The HSS representative club will support this proposed conclusion by HDZ colleagues for the reason that no full financial report requested by the parent board has been submitted, and we believe that, with all the efforts made by the National Council for Science, this high body should have very clear reports and on the spending of taxpayers' funds, which is not quite transparent from the short report delivered. The National Council for Science is the most professional body to care for the development and quality of the overall scientific activities and systems of science in the Republic of Croatia. This encourages, among other things, the adoption of measures to improve scientific activities, and monitors the development of scientific areas and lays down the conditions for the acquisition of scientific titles. It also proposes scientific centres of excellence and implements their evaluation, and gives an opinion on the establishment of scientific technology parks. During the period from 1 April 2009 to 31 December 2009, the National Council for Science held 8 independent sessions and one joint session with the National Council for Higher Education. The Council identified some of the strategic problems it will focus on in the next period, which it believes will contribute to harmonising the RS scientific research system with those in the EU as international standards of classification of science and education, financing scientific projects, reforming public institutes' systems or defining scientific research priorities. The work of the Council took place in accordance with the strategic documents of the scientific technology policy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2006-2010. In line with the strategy, the main objectives of research and development work are based on the principle of excellence, their great efficiency and the re-design of the scientific system, the promotion of research cooperation, the strengthening of support systems for quality young researchers, the strong integration of science and the economy, and the establishment of an incentive framework for their joint development, and in particular increased investment in science. Science and technology are undoubtedly the most important drivers of economic growth, and therefore we at the HSS Club feel closer to looking at a part of the report entitled that science and its application can help get out of the crisis. According to the report, it is precisely science that can expect a quality shift in Croatia and other countries in exiting the crisis. In fact, the only knowledge-based society that needs to be highlighted includes an adequate education system that promotes the acquisition of knowledge from the earliest age and which has an innovative system can be tackled by the challenges of modern times and the globalised market. In this respect, science and its application can help Croatia in the process of economic recovery, and the basic and long-term driver of exiting the crisis is the development and strengthening of innovation potential, as there is a direct link between the application of science in the development of innovation and economic competitiveness. However, according to the Council's report, existing legislation and the way in which academic institutions are managed cannot expect greater shifts in the system of science and the creation of a genuine innovation environment in due time. Croatia should not reduce funding for research, but should increase it, as an increase in research funding creates new and quality jobs in all areas of the economy, not only in the long term but also in the short term. Can we in such a situation, with a reduction in investment and a legislative framework that opens up many discussions, expect that science will also give its pain to leaving the economic crisis, but also to the long-term and positive perspective and prosperity of Croatia and its citizens. The National Council for Science warns that seeking a solution to exit from the crisis should take into account the possible contribution of science since the opinion is that measures taken by economists and employers alone cannot fully implement the country from the crisis in the long term. It therefore concerns the lack of cooperation between science and the economy, so business sector investment in science and innovation is insufficient, and similar situations are with investments within companies, since companies rarely cannot finance research and development. The existing funding isn't enough, and it's not even focused, so the question is, what about the breakdown that was agreed almost 4 years ago on 2. The Congress of Scientists in Split. Furthermore, the public research network is insufficiently equipped, and the incentive for a career in science and technology is low. In addition, the system of advancement in scientific titles relies almost exclusively on scientific indicators while inventions, innovations and patents are neglected. According to the academic institutions, the possibility of commercial exploitation of the results of research and development has not yet been recognised, and this results in a small number of patents reported and poor commercial exploitation. It should be concluded that this report shows that without greater investment in science, Croatia cannot expect its contribution to the economic recovery process, and it is most concerned that this and the long-term view of competitiveness and further development are at stake. However, many young scientists go from Croatia to research centres and universities that offer better working conditions and further scientific training. Together, we can make greater efforts to ensure that young, highly educated, talented and hardworking people do not leave Croatia, which loses not in the same position as others in the global competition in the long term but in the same position. The National Science Council proposes some concrete measures to help Croatia come out of the crisis, such as strengthening the cooperation of science, economy and administration, introducing and developing a system of governance in science, strengthening innovation potential as well as changing legislation to change the way academic institutions are managed. We at the HSS Club support these proposed measures, but since the National Science Council has not delivered all the necessary and valid documents requested by the parent board, and this is a full financial report and a strategy for the development of scientific and research activities in Croatia, we will receive this report on our knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67395	Thank you. It's SDP's turn, the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67396	My colleagues and colleagues, I am convinced that no longer here in this House should talk about the importance of science and technology for the development of the country for the benefit of its people, so it is actually a question of how from this carcinus acts body such as the National Council for Science. So I can get those grades, I'll remind you of some legal provisions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In fact, the Law on scientific and research activities states that the National Science Council is a top expert body that discusses strategic issues for improving science and technology and proposes a whole series of measures for its optimal functioning. My colleagues and colleagues, this report is running low and what my colleague Šetić spoke about, is very technical, very technical, elements of the technical moves of the National Council, which is not his task, and there is almost no strategic dimension. The National Council is the body of the Parliament, of which Parliament, the scientific public, the academic public, the entire Croatian public expects to propose to the Parliament, the academic public, the scientific public what to do to make this academic and scientific public functioning optimally for all of us to be better. There is no word in this report, except for one principle element in that chapter, which says that science and technology can help get out of the crisis. But we don't just care about getting out of the crisis, we care about something called optimal sustainable development, not getting out of the crisis. So it's a crisis, but it's a lot more than that. The second legislative provision, Article 8, shows that at the joint meetings of the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education, the National Council for Science and the National Council for Education shall adopt a proposal on the allocation of budgetary resources. In a slightly more free interpretation of the legal text, this means that the national councils together propose first to the government what the budget for these two activities should look like. Not one year during the adoption of the budget, the National Council has not sat down on this issue and has not adopted its programme or their proposals. The third legal provision is that the National Science Council proposes a network of public scientific institutes in the country. In both national and national councils, we also discuss at the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education for two and a half years our colleagues and colleagues discuss that it is an urgent job, that it is a priority job. Because the basis of this document of one adopted is, in fact, the orientation and the adoption of credentials and the adoption of the approval of new programmes and perhaps new institutions and reforms of existing institutions, etc., etc. About that, except for the fact that we're waiting for the Ministry of Science's analysis, there's no point. And if we wait for all the assumptions to be fulfilled that we can make a decision then we will never make a decision because life is much faster than the established and committed assumptions. These premises, colleagues and colleagues, give a one-off conclusion that the National Science Council is not carrying out its legal obligations. As a parent board, we also offer ourselves to the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education for Cooperation all the time, so that whenever they think we can help them in something, they can either invite us to their meetings or come to the parent board. But no one wants us, colleagues and colleagues. No one needs us. And here's the result of that, you actually have techniques and not a single strategic step. It's legal obligations. There's also a whole series of legal obligations carried out by a substance obligation, so I'd like to say a few words about it. Projects, existing scientific research projects have been approved so that in most cases, they have until 31.12.2009. How the time between tendering for projects and contracting for new projects in Croatia was between 8 and 12 months in 2009 to launch new competitions for new scientific and research projects. Science is the most likely, far the most dynamic activity in the world of the end of the 20th and 21st centuries and is already a question of whether a scientific research project can withstand its content obligations within three years, especially in those sciences such as biology, so in biomedical and electronic sciences. There is no reference to the fact that the competition for scientific research projects was not launched in 2009 so these same projects, colleagues and colleagues, were extended in 2010 and then also extended in 2011 so that we in Croatia have three years of scientific research projects that are far too long in some areas, so we extended them to five years. The National Science Council doesn't practically say a word about it. I am pleased that the National Science Council's report shows a critical observation in relation to the issue of science. I warn you, in Croatia, four years in a row, investment in scientific research and technology falls. I am sorry that the National Council of Science in this matter woke up only after the departure of Minister Primorac, so it's probably a coincidence. But it is equally true that we have remained at the level of casual or principled remarks rather than at the level of detailed analysis and actually strategic thinking, which means if science continues to be treated in this way. Only by science is a small country such as Croatia or as Finland can achieve its prosperity and can find its place in the world economy. We reached the level, and it was already the case in 2009. We have reached a level in scientific institutes that our personal incomes exceed 80%. It's 50, 50 in the world. 50% for personal income, 50% for development. When that ratio comes close to 60% for personal income, then the alarm rings. For us, the amounts for personal income have exceeded 80% and there is no place for development and there is no room for forgiveness for the enhanced thesis of scientific and research institutes becoming social survival institutions. There's not much speech in that report. There is no talk in the report about the relationship between the science strategy and scientific and technological policy from 2005 to 2010 with the reality in Croatian science. In 2009, almost no promiscuous element in the strategy was serious. That should also be said in a word, and I am not telling you that Croatia has plotted to itself that by 2010, it will become regional and a wider force in science and education. All together it was failed, and it was actually a document being called a strategy that there was no talk about. I am pleased that the ruling coalition clubs have come forward with a proposal to keep this report informed. We think that from the premises that we've made, we've come to a very different conclusion. We in the SDP strategy understand significantly different and wider than what is presented here. And we think this report doesn't deserve a positive assessment. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you that, given the seriousness of the situation and the strategic importance of the area we are talking about, consider whether the report will only take note or reject it because it does not fulfil any legal obligations, let alone anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67397	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, she is a respected representative of Romana Jerkovic. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And then it's the honourable representative Goran Maric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67398	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the Honorable President of the National Council for Science, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In Croatia and in the world very often talk about power. Most often power comes from function in practice, but the only true power is science. It is the only true power on which the future should be based and the development of every country, including Croatia. So on the need for the importance of science, I don't think we should even talk about it, that we should all be aware of how important it is. But when it comes to the 2009 report on the work of the National Science Council, I would point out only a few remarks. In one part is the report both substantively and technically well-being, in one part. But in one part, there's a lot missing. The financial report is missing. The truth is that it was delivered afterwards, but the financial report lacks structure and purpose. Structure of income, structure of expenditure. A colleague, Flego, said that it was important to what total separations were, cashed out for science. They're not in themselves an indicator. It is important to what total separations are, but it is also important to have the structure of these separations. Because as good and desirable as it is, it's socially desirable that the more money-making for science that I certainly support is equally dangerous that the wrong scientific projects are being misfinanced. And we need to be aware that we have those, we need to be aware of that. The National Council of 2009 had a very large number of technical activities and I am pleased by this initiative to redefine the criteria for elections in scientific titles because these criteria, the time has matured to redefine. But when establishing these criteria, it should be borne in mind that there is a need for universal criteria, but also needs and individual, selective criteria which are specific only for certain scientific fields, the Agency had a responsible job in the matter of issuing a permit to carry out scientific activities, and I see that it has denied that authorisation to carry out its activities three times. And that's good. She had valid reasons for that. There's nothing more socially dangerous than letting the wrong institutions deal with scientific activity. There's nothing more socially dangerous when trying to pull into scientific activity at a small door of entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship is a dangerous enemy of scientific activity and science, and there are also such attempts in our country and such attempts should be hindered and prevented. It should also be noted that among the members of the parent for different fields there are also those who are free to say it is not the place to be among the members of the parent board for certain fields. There are also those who have defiled the concept of science. In particular, I would draw attention to the scientific field of economy, because economic science is the basis for economic activity, economic activity is based on all activities, social activities. Without economic science, there are no other sciences. And if we're going to have insufficient access to economic science, then we're questioning every other science, we're questioning a lot of that in our country. And among the members of the Committee on the Economic Area, there are those who have contributed to the destruction of the reputation of economic profession, economic science, who have contributed to the destruction of the reputation of economic institutions, economic scientists, and who cannot possibly contribute to the necessary process, the process of restoring the dignity and economic science and economic institutions, and the return of economic scientists. So I would ask and appeal to be analysed, and that is evident, unfortunately when it comes to promoting scientific calling and choices into scientific calling, there were also great, huge mistakes, that those who were the creators of the Index 1, Index 2, and afterwards, and during the affair were promoted to larger scientific callings, and they were the bearers of such affairs. This process, the negative process should be said no, because it is better to stop on the unwanted path than to go to the end. Therefore, regardless of the many and the praises that I can express to the work of the National Council for Science, and this report, I am warning of one great responsible function of the National Council for Science, of the endurance of what is good and of the turning direction in what was bad, and therefore I support the conclusion that this report is being taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67399	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67400	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So my replica would go in the direction that what Mr. Maric said, that we really have people in the system that don't survive from anything and that we can relativize science and knowledge. We had here on the assembly benches and the bill proposals that defined, defining the conditions for taking on certain significant duties of more significant state institutions, where a small door tried to level a pre-graduate study with a graduate, or an old undergraduate study, where it was literally to a small door to push the fact that I don't know a three-year pre-graduate study could replace the knowledge and volume of knowledge given by a graduate study, or for 5 years, or what we had previously had in some situations a four-year study. So on the other hand, about these competitions that Mr. Flego was also talking about, it's clear that it's not good that the competitions that lasted a year, two or three, that now in the lack of money these projects are being extended, and that we don't actually have room for new projects. And then we come to the fact that Croatian science in the Croatian industry, namely that science and research in the development of the Croatian industry is at one of the lowest rates in the European Union, so somewhere at 45% in relation to some average of 65%, or even more developed countries such as the United States and Japan at 73.74%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67401	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67402	Coli Kovacevic, you are right when you say that it is a dangerous situation when they are trying to equate studies that are nothing to equate with, and that is what I was recently talking about, to lead us into a dangerous scientific foreigner process of equating professional and university studies. Professional studies have their place, university have their place, but university studies are scientific studies, professional studies will never be scientific studies. But also science institutions often abuse their position as you have said, so there are scientific institutions that work for various projects or labs for state companies, sometimes copying the same projects for different destinations, so one bus station restructuring project can be written in multiple places, and charged expensively. For this we do not need a scientific institution, for such jobs, but for it to deal with study and scientific activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67403	Thank you. And we have another individual debate, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67404	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So we are considering the 2009 National Science Council report, and we can certainly say that this is also the obligation of this debate, such a report by this Assembly, given that both the technological improvement and the scientific research it is talking about is important for the work of the Parliament, because it should be done as well as best possible, in a way that through these reports and the National Council informs and reports the Parliament about these matters. Normally, we should also receive specific proposals, proposals that are related to priority research, but also related to the networks of institutions that will implement them. Unfortunately, we do not have such suggestions from this part of the report and as such, it is certain that the Assembly cannot be satisfied with the presentation of such a report. But what's here in a broader way is set up and I think it's a good thing it's a link between investment in science and getting out of the crisis. But it is certainly necessary to give a specific and critical consideration. In the part of how science and technology can help get out of the crisis, the National Council has also made certain proposals. Are and how high-quality these suggestions are? That's a different question. At the same time, however, the National Council connects economic recovery measures to scientific research that should take place in Croatia and should make certain changes. I think it must be true and true that investment in the business sector in science and innovation is also insufficient. I know that investments within companies that have so far been that it did not give those results that should be given. In the time before the Homeland War, for example, there was a presence in Slavonia in Slavonic combinations of investment in technology. The famous Slavonian-Baranja technology also produced quality results in the production of wheat, corn, other cereals that are normal and these investments, scientific investments, i.e. research carried out through the institutions of these companies themselves, prompted farmers and individual producers to transfer this production and this new science to their parts. I think it's one of the important moments that should be like that in this situation too, that the technology that is presented and new as such is found in one quality way invests in the rest of the production and thus creates one greater national gain. What should certainly be said is that investment in the business sector must be greater, but that the presentation of science in these investments should also be better. What should certainly be done should also be done by members of the National Council, who are not the most famous for it, and were here in the debate as such and present, to make certain changes, to be carried out in order not to say the ventilation and creation of a body of people who will be able in a good way and immediately as such and present the knowledge that will be accepted and which will lead to not only that I consider it well said not only the creation of certain teams of experts in some governmental institutions, but teams of experts who through science, through institutions, will give solutions, which will be accepted and who should draw the country from these difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67405	Thank you. We have one replica, Honorable representative Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In terms of what my colleague is saying and everything the previous speakers have said, I'd just like to sum up two, three points. I think it's very important that the National Council actually accepts as one suggestion of this debate. This is a clear development of strategic thinking and in this committee stands absolutely at the disposal of the National Council. Furthermore, the development of a network of scientific institutes would also be helpful. And finally the question of projects. There are projects that really require a certain rhythm, speed. However, there are projects that can freely stretch to 5, 10 years. Projects in the area of historical sciences, similar, although time-consuming. Therefore, I think that there should be one precise balance for those projects which, by their nature, require change, speed, rhythms to be concluded in time and to open up opportunities for new projects, and for projects that, by the very nature of scientific matter they are dealing with, to be freely extended over a longer period of time to make it possible and even desirable for these projects to be extended and developed as much as necessary. I think these are all the elements in which both our committee and the National Council can successfully cooperate and a clear committee is always available for such cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67407	Thank you. And final review, the esteemed Krešimir Pavelic, president of the National Council for Science. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67408	Thank you. Dear Representative Selem just said what I always like to repeat, and unfortunately I must say that despite our invitations to come to our meetings, one was on Sljemen, and that we are just discussing these problems, no one has answered. Not on a few consecutive phone calls. So no one's ever come to those seminars of ours. Of course I don't agree with Mr. Honorable Agent Flega's findings that the report is full of technicals. The report is the way you wanted it. At the moment this body concludes that the report will have to look different, we will gladly write it that way. And if it is not of strategic importance to you that I did not say because of the shortness of time, it is the reconstruction of the system of public institutes where we have made our position very clear. Bringing priorities of scientific research, then discussing how science and technology can help, we have concluded that, but it is only part of I repeat. Then, the financial situation and the overcoming of the situation and the debate on the fate of financial projects. The National Council has a clear view, and it has made it clear what these projects should look like. Unfortunately, we're not the executive body, we can make suggestions and ideas. We also cannot have much impact on the budget. Unfortunately. As far as the last network of institutes is concerned. You must consider, it is the National Council that initiated the debate on the amendment of the Law, pointing to these problems that you have identified. However, the National Council stands at the stand, as long as there is no, until a legislative solution to the issue of national institutes, public institutes, until the evaluation of the institutes has been carried out, there is no point in going into the creation of a network. However, the National Council is aware that the network needs to be created temporarily. And it did just that, at its last session, so that the system could work and that it would give little time until the full evaluation is carried out, until we get financial indicators, because it has to say what we got from the ministry, the system of our public institutes in one segment is irrational and there are very clear indicators in the National Council that should change it. But without evaluation, we won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67409	Thank you. Two corrections. Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67410	It's not true that we were invited, I didn't get a single call, and I would answer the call, it's not true that you don't have a legal basis for a solution to the network, because you have a legal basis, it's just a question of how you interpret it and how you understand it. It's not true that we got the report we wanted, but we got the report the way you did. We understand the strategy in a different way than how you understand and it is not true, Mr. President of the National Council, that we have to, what you said several times last time I warned you, so you forgot a little, it's up to us to decide what we're going to do, we don't have to do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67411	And Mrs. Representative Maria Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67412	I am correcting the allegations of Mr. National Council that we have been called several times as representatives and that no one has responded, I have received one call that I have said that I will come, but, however, as it was a two-day assembly and when it was a session of the Assembly, given the debate, I have apologized that I cannot come, but it is much more important than that the National Council for its work corresponds to the Croatian Parliament, it is our Assembly body and it seems inappropriate to me that we receive lessons and instructions on the one hand, because it seems to me that what Professor Flego said that we are actually the ones who make the decision in one way or another, or not at all, simply the matter of our decision and decision of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-04-0.u67413	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Report on work for 2009 of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The 2009 report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia is being taken into account." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. It's given to the knowledge and alignment. Score. With 71 votes for, 3 abstentions and 22 against, it is concluded that the 2009 report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia is being taken into account. We're done voting. Resumption of the 9 February session at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda of the draft plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2011.
