ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71785	We continue the session - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 735 Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation and economy. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Natasa Vujec will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71786	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected and respected parliamentary representatives. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship proposed to the Government an urgent amendment to the articles of the Mining Act, Articles 17, 40, 51, 131, 135, 136 and 137. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Mining Act sets out the obligation for natural and legal persons performing research and exploitation of mineral raw materials, without the necessary approval, damages to the owner of occupied land, the Republic of Croatia for the value of mineral raw material, and the compensation of land recovery costs on which the research and/or exploitation of mineral raw materials was carried out, and it is prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down the value of mineral raw material, as well as the possibility of a marginal payment of the debt resulting from the damage caused by illegal research, or the exploitation of mineral raw materials. The application of these amendments to the laws will also prescribe the obligation to authorise holders of an exploitation field of mineral raw materials where no concession for exploitation has been awarded, to supply data on mineral raw materials reserves to the Ministry of Mining until 31 January, all for the purpose of a meaningful and correct production of the annual balance sheet of the reserve of mineral raw materials, and more effective control of mining economic operators by the State Inspectorate. Furthermore, the obligation of the tenderers to submit, with a bid for a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, an indication by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the State Inspectorate that no proceedings are conducted against the same, or by that tenderer on the basis of illegal research, or the exploitation of mineral raw materials. An error will be corrected with regard to the application of the non-executive safeguard measure of confiscation of the case and the unlawful property benefit obtained by the infringement, i.e. by confiscation of the property benefit obtained by the offence or criminal offence, the Act on the confiscation of property benefit resulting from a criminal offence and infringement will be settled. In addition, it will be possible for mining operators with valid solutions for the approval of the exploitation field and for this exploitation field to come up with a concession for exploitation without their own fault to unearth, or to obtain certified quantities of mineral raw material reserve, extension of the concessions for exploitation without public tender, up to the time limit for carrying out mining works specified by a certified mining project, or project technical documentation, all in order to preserve jobs and continue operations of mining and economic operators without undue interruptions in the implementation of mining works. In addition, it will allow the removal of mineral raw materials fields to natural and legal persons not subject to an exploitation concession within the time limit of the solution. The right to exploit mineral raw materials by force of the law passes to the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the official duty shall be to delete the natural or legal person and the authorising officer from the register of exploitation fields in cases where that natural or legal person is removed from the court or trade register. Signing of the Republic of Croatia as the authorisation holder of these exploitation fields of mineral raw materials is prescribed. In addition, a time period will be allowed for the preparation of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship for the taking over of all administrative offices regarding the research of mineral raw materials, the exploitation of mineral raw materials, the construction and use of mining facilities and mineral raw materials facilities for the production of construction material relating to technical and construction stone, the construction sand of gravel and of ciglar clay, from the jurisdiction of the Office of State Administration, or the Office of the City of Zagreb. Finally, the adoption of a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia laying down the value of mineral raw material as well as the possibility of a marginal payment of the debt resulting from the damage caused by illegal research or exploitation of mineral raw materials is determined. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71787	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Economic Committee? I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71788	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act, with a final proposal for a law. I hope this emergency procedure won't be the same as the last emergency procedure, so we've had such failures in defining the legal provisions. In any case, the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Retirement Party welcomes the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Mining Act, and points out that we do not have to adopt all laws by emergency procedure, so that we have to change them within 6 months, a year. The characteristics of these short amendments, as the State Secretary of State said, are that these amendments and complement the applicable law are more precisely determined by the procedures and relations between the concessions and the concessionaries, surely this is an improvement in the sense that this law is nomotechnically better and more precisely regulated, and the article of Law 137 through these amendments ensures that a strange situation arises from the situation that the Ministry of Economy was not ready to take over certain tasks provided for them by this applicable law. This resulted in a strange stalemate that was virtually insurmountable. This must be in the function of overcoming these possible problems. So I don't think it's necessary to go into the details because Mrs. Secretary of State has already explained very well in the opening statement. So my debate will end with that. I say we support, the HNS-HSU club supports the adoption of amendments and additions to the Mining Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71789	Thank you. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71790	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Madam Secretary of State. The HSS representative club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Mining Act. Namely, the initiative for these changes and additions came from a number of professional associations, from... The HUP, but also only the State Attorney's Office, warned that some articles such as Articles 17, 135 and 136 should be amended and participated in their preparation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A positive opinion on these amendments and additions was given by both the Ministry of Finance and the Office of Law, but also an informally positive opinion came from the European Commission because the Mining Act was, in fact, the key to the temporary closure of Chapter 15. - Energy. We believe in the Club of the Representatives of the HSS that these amendments and additions to the Mining Act will introduce more order in research and exploitation of mineral raw materials in the Republic of Croatia, starting from the basic point of view of Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that ore is of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia, that the exploitation of the mineral goods is prescribed by law, as well as by the owners and authorisation holders of the right to mineral raw materials and the restrictions to which they are subject. We therefore expect in the HSS Club that this will lead to more effective protection of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia in all its parts, including better management of mineral raw materials with the least possible adverse impact on nature and the environment, taking into account the balance of social, economic and environmental systems. But we are also aware of the fact that many things in the mining of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in everyday work and action in all social spheres, may be less dependent on the adoption and interpretation of regulations, and more on the application and practice itself as well as on the conduct of all those factors that are called upon to apply laws and sublaws. The exploitation of mineral raw materials represents a respectable economic activity and a significant economic and financial share of the total GDP. For the Republic of Croatia, besides hydrocarbons, the most significant exploitation is non-metallic solid mineral raw materials, architectural building stone, technical building stone, building sand and gravel, cement production raw materials, carbonic raw materials for industrial processing of stone sand and carbon clay. The mining business in the Republic of Croatia has over 350 companies and craftsmen with registered around 8.5 thousand employees, however, if we also count economic operators dealing with the processing of mineral raw materials, including cement, lime, glass, plastered products, brick fillers, ceramics, we are aware that the exploitation and processing of mineral raw materials in the Republic of Croatia deals with over 500 companies and craftsmen with more than 17 thousand employees. I did not include in those figures companies and craftsmen engaged in the transport of mineral raw materials, which is also not insignificant economic activity. In assessing the importance of mining and its contribution to the overall economic activity of the state, it must be respected and correctly evaluated for the fact that mining is an economic branch that creates new values and promotes and supports the work of a whole range of other production industries such as energy, construction, processing. Some scientific research in Western democracies has shown that the number of workers employed directly in the exploitation of mineral raw materials employs 30 to 40 times the number of workers in other activities involved in the processing of mineral raw materials. According to DZS data, the share of mining in the total GDP of the Republic of Croatia exceeds the share, e.g. Fishing, textile production, tobacco, cellulose, paper and paper products, and also exceeds the share of economic branches such as manufacturing of machinery, furniture production, production of rubber and plastic products, production of tv and communication devices. The proposed provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Mining Act will allow for faster and clearer treatment of mining authorities in the implementation of the approval procedures, for research on mineral raw materials and for the award of concessions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, and will ensure greater protection of mineral raw materials as an important resource owned by the Republic of Croatia. We at the HSS Club are particularly important to consider several provisions that I will now highlight, which are covered by these amendments and additions and which we believe will indeed improve the whole system. Namely, these amendments and additions to the Mining Act provide for obligations for natural and legal persons performing research and exploitation of mineral raw materials without the necessary authorisation of damages to the owner of occupied land, the Republic of Croatia for the value of mineral raw materials and the compensation of land recovery costs on which the research or exploitation of mineral raw materials was carried out. It is prescribed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down the value of mineral raw material as well as the possibility of payment of the debt on the basis of damage caused by illegal research or exploitation of mineral raw materials. The obligation will also be imposed on holders of the authorisation of a mineral raw material exploitation field where no concession for exploitation has been awarded to supply data on mineral raw materials reserves to the Ministry of Mining until 31 January, all for the purpose of a meaningful and correct production of the annual balance sheet of mineral raw materials reserves and more effective control of mining economic operators by the State Inspectorate. An offer for a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials will also be prescribed to provide an indication of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the State Inspectorate that the same, therefore, tenderers, are not conducting procedures on the basis of illegal research or exploitation of mineral raw materials. An error will also be corrected due to the application of the non-executive safeguard measure of confiscation of the case and the unlawful property benefit obtained by the infringement or criminal offence. It will be possible for mining operators with a valid solution to the approval of the exploitation field and for this exploitation field have established a concession for exploitation and have not been unearthed without their guilt, or have obtained confirmed quantities of mineral raw material reserves. Extending the concession for exploitation without public tendering until the deadline for carrying out mining works specified by the verified mining project-technical documentation in order to preserve jobs and continue operations of mining operators i.e. without unnecessary interruptions in the operation of mining works. It will also allow the removal of mineral raw materials fields from natural or legal persons where no concession for exploitation has been awarded within the time limit of the solution. The right to exploit mineral raw materials by force of the law passes in that case to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support these amendments and additions to the Mining Act because we believe that these amendments and additions to the Mining Act will allow faster and clearer treatment of the mining authorities in the implementation of the procedures for the authorisation for the exploration of mineral raw materials and the award of concessions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, and will ensure greater protection of mineral raw materials as an important resource owned by the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71791	Thank you. The HDZ club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71792	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the amendments and additions to the Mining Act because we believe that the problems that have been identified in the implementation and, in particular, in the conduct of the economic inspection of these amendments and additions will make the law more effective. Article 1 of this Amending and Supplement is prescribed that the natural and legal person doing research in the exploitation of mineral raw materials without the necessary approval shall be obliged to compensate the owner for the occupied land, compensate for the damage to the Republic of Croatia for the value of the mineral raw material exploited, and also to bear the cost of land recovery. It is also prescribed that the government will prescribe a regulation to make up for the estimated damage and conditions of the cost of the damage. As regards those provisions, and there was a broad debate on the Committee on the Economy, doubts have been expressed whether it favours all those who, without the necessary permission, have exploited mineral raw materials, obtained huge profits and damaged the state for 100 million kuna, especially since the illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials is a criminal offence for which both fines and prison sentences are prescribed. However, on the other hand, the applicants reported that this provision is in line with the opinion of the State's Attorney General that the State does not deny compensation and that this is the most effective way to collect the damage done. It would be good if, with the bill of law, a list of all legal and natural persons and an assessment of the damage they have done, because especially today when speaking in the context of anti-recession measures coming out of the crisis, etc., it should be said that precisely for many years this segment of mineral exploitation was a large grey zone. The Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that consistent implementation of the Mining Law and these amendments and additions will end this practice and that the problems in this segment will finally be resolved effectively, where the state will collect damage and sanction what was in the gray zone. This Act will also prescribe obligations for holders of the authorisation of the mineral raw material exploitation field, where no concession for exploitation has been awarded, to supply data on mineral raw materials reserves to the Ministry of Mining until 31 January and all of this will enable both the purpose and correct production of the annual balance sheet of mineral raw materials reserves and thus ensure more effective control of mining operators by the State Inspectorate. An offer for a concession for the exploitation of mineral raw materials will also be prescribed to provide an indication of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the State Inspectorate that no proceedings are conducted against the same bidder on the basis of illegal exploitation or research of mineral raw materials. What we consider to be economically important is that it will enable mining operators with a current concession for the exploitation field without their own fault to unearth or acquire the quantities of mineral raw material reserves that have been confirmed by projects and on the basis of which the concession has been awarded to enable them to extend the concession for exploitation without a public tender. We believe that this is all about preserving jobs and continuing business. The reasons for proposing Article 137 and extending the time limit within which mining operations would be taken over by the State Department of Economy unfortunately lies in the fact that it has informed the proposing representative that there are no high-end oil and geology engineers on the market, and even when they appear they do not want to accept a job in the State Service or the Ministry of Economy because they are offered more attractive business in the economy and a better salary. The question arises if everything on the market in terms of supply and demand for this profession remains the same whether this deadline and this two-year extension will be enough for this department in the Ministry of Economy to be teamed up and operationally start working so as to take over from the state administration. Perhaps this situation is a good example and an indication that in the knowledge society, or we can say in this era of the global economy in which knowledge and commercialisation of knowledge is the cornerstone of economic competitiveness, as well as this educational and high school system, in particular its structure needs to be better adapted to market needs. If the commercialisation of knowledge through innovation and especially through the processing industry is the basis for the development of modern economy and competitiveness, it is certain that we need more and more engineers of all profiles, and that in this sense we need to make longer-term plans that would in certain ways bind universities and universities and determine the policy of registration quotas. It is also part of structural reforms to be taken into account if we want a competitive economy, and as we see in this case a more competitive state administration. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71793	Thank you. SDP representative's club Mrs. Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71794	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation on this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act, I would like to say that the SDP Club will not support this bill because it is only trying to put out the fire and not solve many accumulated problems in this sector. In fact, the creamy laws create a very high legal uncertainty in the Republic of Croatia, which is by no means a good climate for the development and stability of entrepreneurship. We are afraid at the SDP Club that these and these laws will make life worse for those entities who want to operate by law and still the state will be weak and ineffective to those who break the laws, making illegally huge profits and enormous irreparable damages in the environment. The practice of passing non-executive laws and a weak repressive apparatus of the state that does not punish those who rob the state, and it complicates life or prevents business for those who respect the laws, gives a very bad message to everyone in Croatia, and this message is that crime is worth it, and that respect for the law is not worth it. And that's what's absolutely unacceptable for us at the SDP club. I would also like to ask a question to a respected secretary of state. It states here that the implementation of this law requires the provision of funds in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia amounting to nearly 5 million kuna. This applies to this article 7 where the research work of these mineral raw materials is transferred from the Office of State Administration, i.e. the Office of the City of Zagreb, to the Ministry. But we don't really understand how such a figure happened, what it implies, and how it's going to happen in the first place, given that we've seen from so far practice that the government doesn't normally respect the deadlines itself. So the question is whether, within 6 months as long as it is foreseen for the adoption of a regulation relating to this Article 1 and implemented in particular? So we think that in this law as well as in the previous law or applicable law, there are still a lot of undefined and under-determined places, and we think that the least that the Proposer could do is to implement this law through regular procedures or through two readings to correct errors in consultation with people or entities directly interested in this law. Now I'm going to look back on the very articles of this relatively short bill. As far as Article 1 is concerned, like I said, he's fine. However, the question arises why does it take the state six months to adopt this regulation again, because if the responsible state has already decided to amend this law because it has become aware that there are a lot of major problems in terms of the implementation of this law, the question is why has the regulation not already been working in some way on a parallel basis so that these accumulated economic problems in this segment are not resolved within an urgent time frame? As far as Article 2 is concerned, we consider this record to be an office. In addition, as regards Article 3 and as regards the concrete considerations of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and the State Inspectorate, we consider that it is okay against the tenderers to state the procedures of the basics of illegal research and or exploitation of mineral raw materials. However, we ask the question why in the first version of the law it was not defined in this way but in a very vague way and very inconclusive in fact it was said that there was some evidence that there was no such illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials and unfulfilled obligations in the recovery and protection of the environment, but it was not defined how the offerer should and proved not to meet such criteria. As regards Article 4, he is fine, because we are all aware that unfortunately, in the area of the exploitation of mineral raw materials in the Republic of Croatia, it is indeed the wild west and, of course, it is good to implement additional measures that will strengthen this repressive apparatus. However, what we consider to be extremely controversial in this bill is Articles 5 and 6. Article 5 is disputed because it is spoken of for a period of 5 years or less, so I would now like to refer to one remark that has come to us from the economic sector, which we consider rather justified, because they ask a question, why only the possibility of extending concessions for those parties who have a service for 5 and less years and only with the state, because there are a whole number of companies that have a service for 10 or 15 years, and in that time they will also not be able to dig up all the reserves foreseen by the project, and the service has negotiated with municipalities and cities that own land. Therefore, the question arises why is one legal uncertainty and an unfair position among the rights created in this way? Businesses also warn that the Ministry of Finance argues that the Law on concessions, which is the basis of the procedure, does not recognise the Institute of Extending, but each time has to go to a public tender, so the question is, how will the proposer solve such a hole in the law? As far as Article 6 is concerned, we believe that it is the most controversial in this whole story, because the state here because of its incompetence and because of its own sloppyness and non-implementation of the law is accounted for by those who are not guilty and punished by entrepreneurs who have failed to produce all the necessary documents and permits in order to comply with this whole business. In this respect, the disputed part where the grantor will, under official duty, be deleted by the authorising officer of the exploitation field from the field of exploitation registers if that authorisation holder is deleted from the court register or the trade name register of the craftsman and the authorisation holder of the exploitation field is entered by the Republic of Croatia. Because of all this, we believe it would be wise for this law to be implemented in two readings in order to carry out a slightly more comprehensive debate on this very important law and to introduce order into this highly regulated area and indeed enable those entrepreneurs who want to respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia to do, and those who do not do so properly to punish them, because otherwise we provide a very bad picture not only of the domestic economies and the public but also of the international context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71795	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71796	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. I will be against this law for one fundamental reason why amendments and additions of this law deserve an appropriate system of use of mine and mineral wealth in the Republic of Croatia, the existence of this system which unfortunately does not exist. The very fact that the law is passed by emergency procedure and relatively soon after a new law was passed a little over a year ago, it actually speaks of the fact that the laws are being passed too quickly, not sufficiently elaborated, and that only when it is realized that a great damage is being done is going to change and supplement that law. What I still see as a major problem for the Croatian state today, which is why I have submitted a special proposal to amend and supplement the Mining Act is the fact that the exceptional values of hydrocarbons available to Croatia as a mineral wealth, so oil and natural gas are practically uncontrollably exploited and this law does not solve this problem here. It is obvious that the government does not have the courage and strength to engage in a serious conflict with INA in order to protect its mining wealth and therefore avoid the whole part. It is not acceptable to exploit oil and gas without precise measurement of the quantities exploited. This cannot be based on some estimates because, ultimately, benefits are paid by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, 40% of which go to the state budget, 40% to the budget of cities and municipalities, and 20% to the county budgets. On the very means of distribution of these funds at this time I will not, but I would also like to say the same, while INA was in Croatian state-owned acquired concessions for exploitation and numerous geothermal sources in Croatia. So INA owns the concession, while earning more on Russian gas imports than on the use of Croatian geothermal sources. Therefore, it did not give permission to use exactly these locations, i.e. geothermal sources, even for those buildings built by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The moment Croatia practically lost control of INA management, we lost control of our own geothermal sources that stand unused, while paying for Russian gas imports where the same company makes more money. This is one example of Croatia having to define and regulate relations more strongly with its owners, with other owners over the INA in order to be able to implement its own geothermal management strategy, other mines and material wealth for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, and not for the benefit of someone else. It is obvious that these strengths and courage are gone at this point and it is actually happening that they are making exceptional profits for themselves, and we are simply changing the item by item to improve the work of inspectorates that have encountered certain problems. Exploitation of sand and gravel is a special problem. It touches this law, but it also touches the Law of Waters. Since January 1st last year, it has been prohibited to exploit gravel and sand in Drava, Sava, Danube, Cup, Uni, Neretva. At the same time today, Croatian construction companies in southern Croatia are buying sand in Albania, and in northern Croatia, sand is imported from Serbia, and that after our companies receive revenue to clean waterways, the sand is then driven to Drava down the Danube, to the Danube to be re-loaded into ships, bought by Croatian construction companies and returned to build buildings in the Republic of Croatia. That's all it is, but a number of family companies that were involved in the exploitation of gravel and sand and had neat concessions were actually bankrupt. They bought equipment and ships, they borrowed credit, the banks sat on their property, they took their houses, practically people would end up on the street, and they were doing something useful for the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the application of gravel and sand in Neretva and Sava, which is precisely on those parts that are exclusively within the borders of the Republic of Croatia, prevents practically the flow of water that used to be in these rivers leading to floods. That's exactly why we had these two flood rivers, and let's not forget some more facts about these problems. People are out of work. At the same time, Hungarians exploit gravel and sand on Drava, Bosnians exploit gravel and sand on the Union and Sava. Where they extract that sand there is enough water flow, there are no floods on those parts, and floods occur precisely on those parts that are exclusively in the Republic of Croatia, so Sava near Zagreb and Neretva south of Metkovic. That is why I appeal for the amendments to these laws to be made with enough courage and determination to protect the real Croatian interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71797	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We therefore have before us the Mining Act, so to amend and supplement the laws that go according to emergency procedure. In fact, the area of exploitation of mineral raw materials is an important branch of the economy that takes place with a whole series of problems. In part, these problems are caused by legislative indetermination, hence the incompleteness of the law, which is why changes and additions are likely to be made, but partly inapplicable to those existing laws, hence some illegal activity that has already been discussed here. It should point out that mineral raw materials are a very important resource of the Republic of Croatia, primarily one non-renewable resource that gives them special importance. So what is used once is no longer being renewed in itself. For this reason, their application should be much better controlled, more strictly controlled as regards their quantity of usability or their exploitation in terms of quantity, methods of exploitation, and ultimately the purpose of such exploitation. So, first of all, it's not all about clean trade, it's about the purpose that certain mineral raw materials are used for. This is why the law we are making should be very, very serious and very high quality and in the extreme sense in the implementing part very controlled. On the one hand, we heard here and from my predecessors, but we all have some kind of contact. We have employers who deal with concessions and that's legal concessions that they got from the state for the exploitation of mineral raw materials that everyone says in the voice that the law is bad. So it's a long-term procedure, it's a complex procedure, it's expensive for concession procedures to take this job seriously. However, there are also a whole range of other problems such as the problem of spatial plans of units of regional self-government, so countys that are very important documents for the award of concessions, or problems of non-compliance with the duration of concessions with the duration of service or the lease of land on which the area of exploitation of mineral raw materials is located, etc. So there are a whole series of such and similar problems, which are being warned by people who want to deal with it, to say in a legitimate way, through taking and receiving concessions and compensation to the state for what it does. But what's on the other hand, on the other hand, is one illegal, very unoccupied exploitation of mineral raw materials, which in my humble opinion is much more dangerous, precisely because I repeat non-renewable resources. There are numerous examples, you and today when you open some of the portals you will find such information about that they are still somewhere in a very drastic one, so I would say an incredibly improbable way to exploit certain types of mineral raw materials such as gravel, sand, land, etc. What a colleague was saying in the area of oil and gas, probably because of the complexity of technology, there are no such things, but there are certain examples. Clear road construction has always been a space, an area where such phenomena have always occurred. Now it's often built into something weaker to say development, and then it's gone, but there's still. There's still, that's what they use. So exploitation primarily of gravel, sand and similar raw materials continues to appear. Or, for example, the construction of large shopping centres, major sports centres, swimming pools, etc., is always connected to what is in so-called. Earth works can be used by means of or by installation into an existing facility, or by sale. Even competitions or calls or advertisements are being announced to call interested in selling such things. All this goes beyond the control of the Republic of Croatia who owns all these raw materials. Or, for example, the cleaning of river streams, waterways, etc., where there are always those resources that arise afterwards, which are sand, gravel and similar things, which my predecessor, a fellow Serb, also spoke of. This bill could probably improve part of something related to the legislative procedure in some segments and the business of legitimate, or legal concessionaries. The question arises, however, why is it so well-conceived that it still leaves the possibility of manipulating concessions, especially those who have had a concession and extend it, and where it is said that their guilt has not led to the possibility of maximum exploitation. It's a very subjective notion to be spoken of. I also join my predecessors in making this law more thoroughly prepared, having a more serious debate on the possible consequences of its application, and simply not rushing like this in an urgent procedure, but through one space for public debate between the two procedures to bring it. I believe that it would not look the same at that time in some segments piled up so that some intervention measures would solve certain segments of the exploitation of mineral raw materials, and I repeat join colleagues who will not vote for this law, precisely because I believe that it should be more serious to approach it through a particular debate and better consultation with the profession to do so in a normal course of law-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71799	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71800	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state. Well, you mentioned to your colleague Heffer a few times, and you specifically pointed out that these are precisely non-renewable raw materials sources. I think that's one of the important issues, and that's definitely why it should be, and it should be particularly highlighted in these legal provisions. In the past, which has been behind us, precisely this indisposition, or unregulated legal provisions, have enabled the use of raw materials, mineral raw materials to enrich individuals, but also the destruction of the natural resources that we have. I think it's very bad today when we see in our even natural parks, such as Papuk, a large part of the torn-off, torn-off hill which is not adequately protected and which certainly represents both a certain and an abomination not to say in that area, but also reduces the value of the wealth of it. At the same time, individuals have become rich, precisely because of this irregularity of all these rules, the state has been damaged, and in the end, especially the destroyed natural wealth of this Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71801	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71802	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bodakosh. That we both come from Slavonia, and we're aware of certain things that happen on our Slavonic rivers, so Danube, Drava, Sava, and you've pointed out here the case of Papuk, the quarry, probably etc. I'm just for that very reason and I said that since it's non-renewable sources, so what's being used and transferred from a certain location is no longer coming back to the river... the application, etc., but never to that extent, of river flows, coastal appearance, and everything else, so I said that the exploitation, or exploitation of mineral raw materials, should be strictly controlled in terms of how it is done, and in terms of quantity, especially as regards the purpose of why something is used, because simply if we come to the environment, we will use certain raw materials to the extreme, it will hardly be that financial effect that has arisen from it unless it is something that has entrenched our space to satisfy it in return. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71803	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71804	Well, Mr. Vice President, the Mining Act, or amendments to the Mining Act, is such a law that is a dangerous law, which drills the legal system, which miners our legal system and simply amazing. But if we remember that this same ruling set of 90s decriminalized the theft of the mine treasure, then no wonder for such a bill at the end of the term. The law is essentially a law of illegality. He's a failure of the legal system, he's anti-constitutional and he's against the Penal Code. He's basically what he's saying? He says it is allowed without the necessary permission to steal ore treasure and sell it to the state. He says that the state is not working and that even the one who has requested the permits will certainly not get them within the required time limit so that it can proceed uninterruptedly with digging, stealing our non-renewable resources and thus impoverishing what belongs to all of them to charge the state. But, of course, not everyone can do it, just privileged. He'll probably be doing it on that principle half-drinking half-painting. Namely, the theft of the mine treasure and how unearthed it is, here is now a witness to this latest fact that even the hill has been removed and sold to the state illegally. So, the State's Attorney's office's data is worrying. In order to charge for all that was stolen only in respect of the mine treasure, I am not talking about other values, it was not necessary to introduce neither the hack nor the harassing of the country, in the pockets of the citizens that it was not allowed to be harassed, that the chosen harrases on our non-renewable resources belonging to all of us. Is this bill also not only the restoration of the existing state but how all those who have illegally worked, dug, stole ore treasure without any punishment? This is simply incomprehensible when with the highest state instances we have such statements as to the zero tolerance rate. And this is a law that legalizes not only the illegalities of the regulars that they are used to as citizens but is the source of corruption. And there is no support and relief for the economy, but direct unfair competition. The government also proposes to fight the gray economy by prohibiting friendly assistance, of course, if these friends are 500 metres away, and on the other hand allows the theft of millions and millions of kunas and hundreds of millions. After all, isn't it enough, and when this Mining Act was passed, and also about concessions, to respect our proposal to dig up treasure everywhere in Europe, ore is charged by the amount taken out, and only by profit. So these companies, these companies can share not only dividends, profits, they can buy different luxury things and they don't have to have any profit or very small. What our Penal Code says, which is under a lot of pressure, first of all, because we were also legal in 2003, that famous novel and subsequent amendments, however, entered it as a criminal offence again – the illegal exploitation of the mine treasure. Contrary to the regulations or decisions of the competent national authorities, the exploitation of the mine treasure will be fined by fines or fines of up to 3 years, and yet if it is done in a protected area of nature, or if it is large amounts of that penalty range of up to 8 years, and that it is precisely such material that will be taken away. However, it seems that it does not give a damn to the promoter and that he simply considers this law to be illegal without the necessary permits that a fine state will pay for it when it enters the field. It even empowers, what kind of volunteerity, or even orders such thieves to keep records of what they stole, and then when the state comes, it will calculate how many cubes there were and charge for it. It literally says that in this law. Here's who missed doing it for the public. I'm doing it myself. Article 1 states exactly how a natural or legal person who investigates or exploits mineral raw materials without the necessary approval that it is necessary to compensate for damages. And by regulation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will determine what height it is. Furthermore, Article 2 states that the concessionary for the exploitation of mineral raw materials and the authorisation holder for the exploitation field of mineral raw materials in which the concession is not based will be required to keep an annual record of the reserves of mineral raw materials. Well, this is really, really funny. And what was such a guarantee in the existing law, therefore, that those competing for a concession must give evidence, that is, in the existing law of the 51st paragraph 2 of the second indent, proof that the tenderer does not have outstanding debts with grounds for public giving, with the basis of earlier authorisations for research into mineral raw materials or concessions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, based on illegal research of mineral raw materials, i.e. on the basis of the illegal exploitation of mineral raw materials and the failure to fulfil obligations in the recovery and protection of the environment. It is now deleted and it is said that it is sufficient to say that such a person based on an illegal investigation is not subject to proceedings and that the permission of the State Inspectorate or the State's Attorney's Office must be obtained, and it is known that the grey number of this type of criminality here is the largest. So, first he lets him do it, then he's asking the State's Attorney's office not to conduct any proceedings, and then those who have been led so far won't be run because you've legalized it yourself. This is something horrifying, in addition to this provision is this whole amendment and is complemented by the direct provision of Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which says that the sea, sea coast and islands are the water of airspace, ore treasure and other natural treasures of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection, are you in this way what has not been stolen in Croatia, that is water, forest, ore treasure that has not been protected for years and in this way intended to leave to those chosen. I don't know who that came up with. It was fairer that, as you did in the '90s, you decriminalized so that at least people knew where they were. So what kind of invitation is this to people who want to do it legally so that they can do what they want. And so far, we've had a big problem with the illegal exploitation of the mine treasure, let alone with this which is your call to do whatever you want. So my proposal is to withdraw this bill because we will respond by constitutional, request for the protection of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71805	Mrs. Mirela Holy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71806	Dear colleagues, the question arises whether this chaos you were talking about is the result of the state's crippling or its intentional creation of disorder and chaos. What am I saying that for? Because we do not have reliable databases in this exceptional sector, a map of mineral raw materials with a state strategy for sustainable exploitation of mineral wealth. Unfortunately, the situation is no different and in other sectors concerning natural resources, so in the Environment Protection Agency, which should be a central base from which all of us could get data from environmental protection, we have a total mess, there is no concrete bases, and it is similar to the State Institute for Nature Protection where we have no map of habitats and all of this creates a very big mess, it is evident that the state has no natural wealth policy in any area, and this is a very sad situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71807	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71808	My colleagues can only be naive to think that this is some kind of high-speed law that's not well-designed. This is the designed way to rob something that's still left. The question arises who will now ask for concessions, who will even ask for the necessary permits. Because that's no longer necessary. If someone catches him, then they'll pay some kind of compensation to the state, and in the meantime they can all do it without permission to do it, draw and sell to the state. So who's crazy and what are you doing?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71809	Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71810	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. I will only look very briefly at Article 7 which speaks in fact about these transactions that cross on 1 January 2013, from the Office of the State Administration, or the Office of the City of Zagreb, to the Ministry of Minery, or the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and Labour. In fact, according to the current law adopted in 2009 it was to go beyond 1. 1. In 2011, of course three months ago, to move on to the ministry's work. However, I read what it is with the proposal of this law. Does that mean that this provision has a feedback effect? The question is, is that unconstitutional? Surely it creates one legal uncertainty, the Constitution says that it can happen for specific reasons, you have cited the reasons, the question of whether they are specific enough not to disturb constitutional principles. We wonder if the offices also have conditions where the retroactive authority is now returning. This is April of the month, if this change had been made somewhere at 10, the 11th month would still be fine. However, this period, however, has been consummated by the provision, why do I say so? Because the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County for the area is called a concession decision, because it is in this period and between, and we know that the Office of State Administration is also planning their budgets when it is time. We've heard the explanation that there are no engineers of this profession, of course it's a question of whether it will be during this period, are we going to have to extend another time, what are the conditions? Of course, the adjustment of the education system and the economy, or structural reforms, should have been considered before. I am also interested in the answer to the question asked by my colleague Holly, and it is necessary for the implementation of this Law to provide these nearly 5 million kunas, to assume all duties, to explain that to us. Therefore, we have seen what the urgency brings, brings a very urgent change, if carried out by emergency procedure. Think about whether it takes so much urgency, whether this way, unfortunately, the practice continues. Of course I won't support this law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71811	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71812	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Obviously, the adoption of this Law was necessary in view of the events that were in the area of the mining of mineral raw materials and, in particular, the need to regulate the collection of those who were unlawfully using or excavating mineral raw materials. I therefore support the adoption of this law, but I am taking the opportunity to warn of some phenomena that are not socially desirable which are both socially harmful and necessary to warn of the adoption of stronger and stronger sanctions against those who do not comply with the law, against higher penalties, but also the need to draw attention to the systematic analysis of the granting of concessions and the new demand for an optimal model for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia. It is not necessary to interfere with the mind that the wealth of a country is exclusively based on the wealth of the nature and wealth of the people, on the potentials natural to the potential of the human. And the wealth of spiritual and moral people depends on how natural riches will be used, and the way natural resources are used depends on what the national economy will look like. Natural wealth can be used in many ways, but let us not forget that there are those who think that these natural resources should be used exclusively for individuals, for private purposes. I don't think so, I think that natural resources should be used and used in a way that they are the benefit of each individual and thus for the common good. And that's why I think if someone without the approval or concession of mineral raw materials digs up, that's why the Republic of Croatia undermines it. And there are those. You should know who they are. Who is it that illegally uses the mineral raw materials of the Republic of Croatia all of us? Who is it that says in the law exploits mineral raw materials without approval? And that's what it says, and that's how it's supposed to be in the law, but it should be made clear that who does it without authorization, that's the one who steals it. He doesn't act, and he doesn't do business without approval, he steals. And why is he stealing? Because the punishment is less than the value of what he excavates. And that's why I'm warning you about the need for more punishments because they wouldn't be worth doing that. Whoever acts against the law and provides himself with property benefits is a criminal, and such a law will put an end to it, and that is good, and to prevent such acts from happening. But there's something I don't think there was a need to get such people to meet and give the possibility when the damage to the meal payment is determined. It was about that and on the board, and then the representative told the ministry, so it's logical because it's possible that someone could suddenly pay 15 million kuna. And that's a good question. But how it's possible that someone could have dug up that amounting to 15 million kunas without anyone responding. If everyone works and acts their duty responsibly and professionally, such things could not be obtained. How is it possible for someone to dig up the value of 15 or 20 million kuna by the State Inspectorate and no one to stop it? The State's Attorney's Office, which was said to have agreed to the team, the State's Attorney's office agrees to charge the damage, but does not regulate payment deadlines and repayment deadlines. Let's imagine if someone robbed a bank, took 10, 15 million kunas, and then let it go back to the war on a court sentence for 5 or 6 years. It's a natural fortune to adopt for itself, it's an economic crime. Natural wealth should be used for general and public good. This law I'm sure will contribute on that path. But it should also be borne in mind that there are individuals always and that our society has been so divided at all times in every respect of both the extremely rich and the extremely poor, so it has spread to both moral and that there are always those who will think only of themselves as an individual and only of their own interests and of the harm of others. But we also need to know that the sum of individual interests does not do the common good. I believe this law will also contribute to increasing economic activity, because only by increasing economic activity can we get Croatia out of the crisis. Croatia will not extract investment funds from the crisis, only increased economic activity. But we should always remember that there is a small part of Croatia that built its system of values in such a way as to set Croatia on fire if he knew that he would crush the wealth using fire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71813	Replica Madam Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71814	You tell your colleague that you support the collection of unpaid goods, so even under the law so far, this law is particularly emphasising and it is not even controversial. But what's controversial, and what you also condemn, is that those who steal, who do without permission, are thieves. But under this law, they're not thieves, they're entrepreneurs to the extent that they can steal ore treasure without permission. And what you're saying is you're in favor of being severely punished, no. With this bill, not only will they not be punished but they are invited to do so in the future, and all those who have done so will be freed of any penalties and criminal and even more important penalties. And that's enough, because lately, many actions have been initiated on the citizens' initiative, some MPs, and that's a huge, huge amount, where the penalty has been prevented just before I said up to eight years ago. Now with this bill of law, it falls into the water. So, this law just blesses these thefts and they get rid of every responsibility, and they and all the perpetrators call for it to be a desirable behavior that it is for this government an economic recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71815	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71816	Well, fellow Anticevic is not this law a blessing for such behaviour, because he will nevertheless prevent such behaviour and this law will charge the debts that have been determined how much damage it has done. But I said I'd be happier if it was charged all of a sudden, not every time. Because it is time to finally in Croatia those who owe exclusively through the debts of fame and come to their success. On that trail, a famous French writer told his friend, dear friend, only debt, debt, that's the only way to succeed. Now, this law, I think it'll stop it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71817	Five-minute debate, HDSSB Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71818	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maric, I must say immediately regarding your response to the replica. For what was once bitten by a donkey wolf. In our Slavonia, which would appear to be unknown to some who do not know it enough, it seems that mineral raw materials, or mineral wealth, do not exist in small quantities. However, if we take into account that gravel, sand also belongs to a mineral wealth, so what Sava, Drava and other Slavonian rivers apply also belongs to a mining wealth and is exploited and enormously exploited, further that at the site in Dilj Gora, a young guide, in Pokklalje municipality one location is marked, and there are more, as PV in the Ministry of Economy Mines Department, which is a special value. It's a rock rich in calcium or something. Calcite which is a special value and special value of natural, so mineral raw material that can bring prosperity to the end and villages, to municipalities located on the slopes of the Dilj Gora. Unfortunately, what you discussed earlier happened that a million tons of this special value had disappeared according to the results of the mining inspection. And that's why I say at first that sentence bit by a donkey wolf. Even you know who drove it, trucks and trucks passed through the villages of the opening so-called, whoever is in Slavonia knows what they are to the local committees of the Pokkalje Municipality, Gornji and Donji Slatinik, etc., driving valuable raw materials for the spilling of roads and I don't know what everything, even though it's not even adequate raw materials for such things. The local HDZ powers are well directed at these things. A million tons were taken away without any kuna coming to the Pokrkalje Municipality's cash register, and it belonged to 2.6% of that value. As long as it sat in the state register, Mr. Schucker, you were the finance minister back then, of that. Not even a kuna. And now the law is passed, or a bill of amendments, which will be regulated. Indeed as a regulation because it is still a blessing to continue doing this, exploit the gravel and sand from Sava, Drava and other places, the stone limestone from Dilj Gora, and continue to be as you say to be able to make payments to wars or meal payouts, etc. So whoever stole it must have stolen that... I call her on it and he earns and has to pay the state and the municipality, the county of what belongs to her. [[You don't understand.]] That's why this law doesn't bear the code E, no E, no P.Z. It's our local thing, it's what we do here, playing the blessings Mrs. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović said, these thieves and their dirty work. And that's why the state's attorneys have that information, believe me, they do, but I haven't heard any of the consequences of it. We may be going into the area of justice, which is not good, but it's tightly connected, so-called. The criminal exploitation of mineral wealth and with this bill, and here's the one before which I don't think much will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71819	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Natasha Vujec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71820	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs, thank you. As far as the final review is concerned, as far as the discussion is concerned, I can say that listening to absolutely all the statements can finally say, no matter how much they look like the opposite attitude and representing the opposite sides, we all feel the same way and I hope that this amendment and supplementing is just another step in the amendments to the legislation that will contribute to improving the functioning of both the rule of law and the State Inspectorate and the State's Attorney's Office, and finally all the employees in the administrations in charge of mining. The mineral treasure based on the Mining Act, which is now being amended and based on all the laws of the past is owned by the Republic of Croatia. The mineral treasure actually represents mineral raw materials, and the way they are exploited, explored, exploited and then exploited depends on each mineral raw material and differs. But what puts all these mineral raw materials under one denominator is that they are the basis for industrial production, and thus the basis for the economic development of each country. However, it is difficult to name industry, I currently do not think of any of which are not the basics of mineral raw materials and only mining. So other than mining, products can only be agricultural and forestry. Therefore, this law practically affects Croatia's overall economic development. 457 mining companies, which are more or less, are almost all in some problems related to mining activity. Because of these problems and because of the overall situation, which is not only founded as is now said in illegal exploitation from the point of view of extracting mineral raw materials without the necessary permits, but also for reasons of increased fees, increased costs of production itself, and also from the point of view of the economic crisis. So in this single package, there is also a possibility of a repayment of the debt that we expect these companies will pay through a certain period of time and the provision and guarantee of payment of the debt and the self-employment of these companies. If the debt has to be paid once or within a short time period, the result has to be that the company goes into bankruptcy and loss of jobs, which, according to some companies, are at least 100 or more employees, which, indeed, would not be acceptable during this period of economic recovery. One of the other most frequently referred questions is anything 5 million kuna should be provided for the implementation of the article I think 137. Yes, Article 137 relating to the takeover of business by the Office of State Administration in the Countys and City of Zagreb. So there are 21 of them in these offices, for 48 employees. The Ministry of Economy's Ministry of Mining employs 8, only 8, and they need to take over from 48 employees throughout Croatia. First of all, it is almost impossible, although we have proven again that it is impossible, so in this past period to this day, practically those 8 workers, of whom 6 engineers and one administrative secretary and one lawyer have performed all these tasks of the Office of State Administration, and up to this day practically carried out 22 concession procedures. Here's to concessions. That's it. Regarding these 5 million, we can say that these are planned new jobs in the administration itself, but also a planned storage space for the disposal of complete documentation related to the research and production of mineral raw materials in Croatia, from the day it started. So in this storage space, we should also put in place complete documentation that is currently stored within the INA Oil Industry, based on research and production not only of oil and gas, for over 50 years, as well as the company that deals with this production, but also on all other mineral raw materials found in these research and development drillings, because the Mining Act defined that any mineral raw materials found must be recorded and archived as such. In short, given that these preparatory activities related to these amendments and the additions of these articles lasted a very long period, in the desire and hope to achieve the best formulations and since all relevant institutions participated in these preparations, and thus helped to define these amendments and the addition of the Mining Act, I suggest that this law be adopted in an urgent procedure and that the action under this law be allowed as soon as possible, because we really expect important shifts and faster resolution of the problems identified in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71821	Thank you. One correction, Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71822	It's not Madam Secretary of State that you told the truth that this is a step towards achieving the rule of law, as you said at the beginning of your final presentation. This is a rule of law, because it is allowed without any legal permission and any further peeling of the river, it is already in alarming quantities it seems, gravel without any permits, digging quarrys, holes that can be seen almost now from the moon. The truth is that there are complicated permits, and then your path to the rule of law was to simplify those permits, not to lift those permits so that all of this could be done illegally.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71823	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71824	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 735, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 80 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 28 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71825	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 731 The Proposer is Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, and the Committee on Tourism, and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Natasa Vujec. Here you go. Tihana Queen, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71826	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. I would like to say that, in the preparation of this legislative proposal by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, a working group working on the proposal of this law was formed, consisting of representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Employers' Association, representatives of the State Inspectorate and representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. We have tried, and especially by respecting everything that the representatives of the State Inspectorate have said, since it is those who have so far meant to do their activities on the ground, and their jobs, precisely by the basis of their remarks that we have sought to prepare a bill that will be enforceable. Following the numerous discussions held and following the adoption of this legislative proposal, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and through the preparation of this assembly, means through the work of the Committee, the Proposer has accepted that this law does not mean by an urgent procedure in one reading, but that the law will go into two readings, and means all with the aim of having what is potentially controversial in the proposal of this legislative proposal, all of which may not be perceived by the public to try to find such solutions and such a text of the law that will resolve all these ambiguities on the one hand, but will also give the possibility to the State Inspectorate to act under this law and to achieve the fundamental objective of the adoption of this law. And the fundamental objective of the adoption of this law is that entrepreneurs operating legally in the Republic of Croatia today, meaning they have registered crafts, which have registered a company, who have reported their activity at the Tax Administration, that they are being freed from unfair competition, from all those who are doing their business in the Republic of Croatia today, and that they have not entered into the Trade Register, that they have not entered into another relevant register, and that they are advertising their activity, that they are doing it regularly and that they are actually acting in legal traffic as well as those entrepreneurs that are registered. It should also be said that the amendments to the 2007 Law on crafts were in place when the provisions which meant unregistered activities were deleted from it that meant that the State Inspectorate was in a position that it could not actually treat those who are operating in the Republic of Croatia today unregistered and that in fact the complete system was directed, meaning both surveillance and inspection services, exclusively and solely meant those entrepreneurs who are registered. This legislative proposal constitutes a clear and unambiguous definition of what it is to carry out unregistered activities. It also defines who the participants are in carrying out unregistered activities. So other than the service provider himself within the meaning of this law, the service provider is considered to be a participant, but the advertiser also, if he does not respect the advertising, means the provisions of this law which define what all advertisers need and must have by the advertiser in order for the advertisement to publish. In any event, in the event that the opposite of these provisions are carried out, that advertiser will also be subject to sanctions. It should also be said that today in the Republic of Croatia, a specific law, the Law on Trade, the Law on Construction, the Law on Food Activities, means these specific laws have covered and they define the conduct of unregistered activities. However, a whole series of other activities, especially in the service sector, means it is not currently covered and it will mean only after the adoption of this legislative proposal will actually create assumptions and possibilities that illegal competition means legal entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia in a significant reduction and in fact make it impossible. As far as the law itself is concerned, he also foresees certain exceptions. Exceptions are given in the legislative proposal for the purpose of achieving legal certainty for all participants, in general in payment transactions. And that is why family assistance is listed as an exemption, neighbourly assistance is listed and it is stated that for such forms and for such types of aid will not be subject to the application of this law. It should also be said that the tradition that is in the Croatian people means the tradition of providing mutual assistance, neighbouring, friendly and each other within the meaning of this law is not really defined, here it is defined to carry out unregistered economic activity, the activity performed repeatedly, which is advertised, the activity being charged. As far as the supervision of this law is concerned, it will be carried out within its prescribed scope by the competent inspectors of the central authorities of the state administration. As regards administrative measures defined in Article 14, it may be necessary in particular to set out paragraph 4 which states that where a solution is made to unregistered activity, such a solution should also be delivered to the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Tax Administration, the Croatian Employment Office and the Ministry of Social Affairs. As regards criminal sanctions directed at the service provider, which are directed towards the participants in this law, penalties range between 3 thousand and 20 thousand kuna. Finally, I would just once again point out the basic purpose of adopting this legislative proposal is to prevent the carrying out of unregistered activities, i.e. that legal entrepreneurs who registered their business, entrepreneurs who regularly pay taxes and contributions, who employ workers to free them from unfair competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71827	Thank you. The Development and Reconstruction Committee? The Economic Committee? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71828	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of Representatives. In particular, at its 51st session held on 5 April 2011, the Committee discussed the proposal of the Law on the Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity with the Final Proposal of the Law. We discussed this proposal as a parent working body. The proposer's representative informed the board that this law is another measure for economic recovery and an instrument for fighting the gray economy. The grey economy is a major problem and in Croatia it is moving towards estimates of the economic institute and the world bank ranging from 16% to 35%. The debate pointed out that the proposed Law had to be adopted much earlier and that the grey economy and the implementation of unregistered activities outside the legal system of operations was a widespread phenomenon that directly threatens the loyal competition in the Croatian economy, the revenues of the state budget of consumers and their right to a safe and quality service, as well as to entrepreneurs who regularly operate and pay taxes to the state. It should also contribute to reducing registered unemployment and, in general, interrupt the long-term practice of illegal carrying out unregistered activities without sanctions. The Committee also problemed in a broad discussion of Article 11. The law and the definition of neighbours and neighbouring assistance at a distance of up to 500 metres, which is assessed as inaccurate and unclear for the conduct of inspectors and to which we have received a response from the proposing representatives that the ministry is not satisfied with the proposed solution and that it will accept a more quality proposal if proposed in the form of an amendment. We believe that these remarks have also resulted in this decision to allow the law to be released into another reading and to have the highest quality solution, especially for the purpose of conducting an inspection. Following the discussion, the Committee decided, with 6 votes for and one abstention, to propose the adoption of the Law on the Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71829	Thank you. The Tourism Committee? The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? I'm opening a debate, the SDP counseling club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, first of all, it is unusual for me to say that when you have the law and ambition, we heard from Mr Kovacevic that you are dealing with a problem that speaks of 35% of GDP in a gray zone and not a minister of the economy to defend that law. It is one big problem perhaps of the Croatian economy, it is the problem of the public finances of the state, taxes, everything, and the minister who has announced this Law quite pompously as the one who will solve the problems does not defend it in the Croatian Parliament. But, well, maybe there's something more important to do, so we'll forgive him, the government session is fine. What is important to note is that every law we propose here should not be the law that solves the consequences, but the one that solves the causes of the problem, so in some ways we think that this Law is not the one that will solve this problem that is being talked about here. We have many inspections that now control the area, we have a tax, customs, inspectorate that controls the work on black, so all of this could be controlled so far and see if there are certain irregularities and if that share of the grey economy could be smaller. Unfortunately, we are particularly inclined in this term of government to make solutions that will show that we are against certain things, but in practice it will not change anything, this Law is almost not enforceable. When we talk about who's going to help whom and whether he's going to be within 500 meters or more, I think it's simply impossible to control, you send an inspector on the ground he if he's going to enter a private facility someone might not let him in. And that way, until there's a final court decision, there's no way to control it. We create anxiety amongst people, questions are raised why the state is doing it and the effect won't be. So I said we should not solve and try to change the consequences but the causes of the problem that led to people working and being stimulated or in some way trying to survive by carrying out certain activities and not paying the state tax. We must consider that the number, and it is mostly about crafts, people who do not need a large number of employees, that Croatian craftsmen have suffered the most in this recession. For the last three years, 15 thousand crafts have gone missing, 50 thousand jobs have disappeared in trades, unemployment has been a record 330,000 unemployed, and in some ways in the last 8 years it's a record number of unemployed at the Employment Office. In addition, it could be concluded that in the two mandates of the HDZ government we have not opened a single job and at the same time we have increased the share of public debt to more than 555% of GDP. In the last three years alone, we've borrowed 40 billion kuna for the country's deficit, and we've lost 150 thousand jobs. And here we need to look for the causes of the problem and help in some way craftsmen to make their business simpler and thus solve the problem of working on black, to stimulate people to enter the system, not to allow them to hire a certain number of people, and instead of doing so, the Ministry of Economy is doing the opposite. It now has the ambition that inspectors will go around the flats looking for possibly hairdressers or hairdressers who cut their hairs and do not report their crafts. So that's certainly not going to happen, what we think we should do is first of all look at the activities that are crucial and where perhaps the most is done I would say the gray economy. In Croatia it is definitely a trade, probably also preparing catering services, food and drinks, and there is a way to introduce order and how to reduce the share of those who work in the gray economy. This can be done in many ways, it can now be more zealous and in some way better quality work and tax administrations, controls, records of the issue of accounts, etc. On the other hand, we believe that craftsmen should be stimulated to employ people and should be relieved of their contributions, so whoever hires a new man in craft has the right to be free of all contributions on the salary for two years. And in this way reduce the costs of craftsmen and the opening of new jobs and in this way I would tell people that those who are now working on black or not reported to be introduced into the system. We absolutely also feel the need to work for reinvested profits in craftsmen who, if they create new jobs, if they invest their profits in the previous period should be exempt from the profit tax. Another thing that definitely prevents more efficient work of crafts and certain tax burdens, which is a quite low limit that in Croatia is set to introduce you immediately into the VAT system. We believe that this limit must not be lower than 200,000 kuna, because we are aware of how much tax burdens and tax obligations towards the state have suppressed these two, three years of crafts in Croatia. So 50,000 jobs we lost, these people probably didn't all stop working, they just don't have the opportunity to pay taxes, they're too expensive for workers who hire means high tax burdens and they've gone to the gray economy. And on that side, the state loses more than it would have, or would have certainly gotten more from making certain tax redistributions if it had stimulated people to remain registered and this way that I said earlier enabled them to work in some normal frameworks. So what the SDP thinks is absolutely that we need to go into labour decommissioning, tax-reinvested profits, increase the limit when craftsmen enter the VAT system to 200 thousand kunas and thus directly reduce the costs of craftsmen and allow this part of the people who are now looking at black working in the gray economy to return to the system and that the state has more benefits than it has now. With this law you won't do it, gentlemen, because this law first I said is inconclusive, the second you have provisions that I think are a little bit funny. You have now made of all Croatian citizens those who are a potential offender, if they have ordered a certain service, and did not ask the company that is doing this service to bring them a copy of the court register to check if it is registered for it. Now people who order home repairs of radiators, light bulbs, televisions will have to be trained in some way and watch those companies control whether they are registered, whether they have the right to carry out these activities. If not, they too will be in violation. So in some ways you've made of citizens those who should control what the job of the state is, and you have said almost seven inspections that could do the job, and unfortunately at this point they're not doing it. You have one more thing you'd like to warn here, it's about how to treat the causes and not the consequences. I'll give you an example. The point is that over the past three years, the sales of new cars have fallen heavily and was expected to grow in some way by repairing cars possibly if certain damage or repairs of cars are done in services, to see the difference and to see the income from that being greater in car homes or in authorised repairers doing these jobs. But it happened exactly the opposite. It also happened that the same significant drop in traffic, i.e. less repairs of cars than they had been repairing before. And now there's a logical question, is that possible? And what does the state do to try to curb the gray economy in that area? First, of course it's not possible, those cars are being repaired somewhere, so the damage is probably bigger than they were three years ago when the park was driving was new, when it was being bought more. On the other hand, who's fixing it? They're probably mending people who aren't registered who work in the gray economy. And how is it paid? It is paid of course the money provided by insurance companies based on a direct house settlement and them. So we don't control whether certain damage on the vehicle is done, whether it's serviced in an authorised service and whether that money ended eventually during repairs in someone who performed the activity unregistered. So in order to simplify, it's worked out that when a person gets an authorized estimate of, say, ten thousand kunas, I've managed to find out who's doing this activity for six, seven thousand kunas and makes a deal with the insurance company for nine thousand kunas, and it's left with that difference that unfortunately comes from the state because it didn't pay taxes. We allow a large part of the insurance money to go that way into unregistered activity. Why aren't we sanctioning these things? That's the question. Let's say that in our opinion, there could be a lot of things in order, and we wouldn't have to send an inspector now to knock on garages and look for who, where and how he repairs cars that aren't fixed in authorized services. So to conclude, I don't think this law is going to fix the situation in the gray economy, I think that Croatia has space primarily to help the economy directly, to help craftsmen, to relieve the price of work, to free the tax on reinvestment, to raise the limit of entering the VAT system, to help certain activities where there are a large number of unregistered workers, and we all know where, in construction and such activities, to spread the tax potentially and reduced VAT rates in tourism, to make these activities more competitive and to stimulate them to employ people. It would be the right way, and the right way is not to sanction people if your neighbor has come to help you fix the television, to do certain works, to do together harvesting grapes in your vineyard, and this law allows. If your neighbor is accidentally authorized to repair electronic devices, he must not help you fix radio or television. So that's what this law says. Whether it's 500m or less. So we're doing a paradox of the law, we're creating an impression that we're going to solve something, we're not just going to create a revolution in those people who are going to order repairs, we can potentially punish them, and we're creating the biggest revolution in craftsmen who I've said in three years almost a third of jobs have been extinguished and are therefore the most affected in the Croatian economy. Now we're putting extra pressure on them, and we're not looking at how. And I expect the Ministry of Economy to think about how to help these people, not how to control whether a hairdresser or a hairdresser in her apartment cut five or ten people. It's like that person's gonna get rich and most of that money doesn't end up in the budget again one way or another. You should go where extra profits are made. I said where it was, catering, I said car repairs because of this way of paying the damage, and there we can do order, and on the other hand help craftsmen to live easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71831	Thank you. Two corrections. First, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71832	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, it is incorrect to quote colleagues, Maras, that if there is an increase in the limit for entering the VAT system, it will reduce the costs of entrepreneurs. My colleague, the elemental thing about VAT is that he's neutral for the entrepreneur, so you can't say that VAT is a cost for the entrepreneur, he's neutral. That's what started the basics. Another thing if you're talking about... I wasn't interrupting. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I wasn't interrupting. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You should know basic things when you're presenting these facts. The second thing, when you talk about the share of public debt in gross domestic product, then we can't keep the data in mind. They have exact indicators where the central state is what that share is, that share is about 40%, and when you add HBOR and something like that, it's a percent higher. However, due to the Croatian public, colleagues Maras should say that Croatia has at least one of the countries with the lowest share of public debt in the gross domestic product because of Croatia's rating towards and rating agencies and those watching you. That's the truth. And these sensationalistic indicators that you're showing won't get us any good, and we won't solve the problem of the gray economy the way you're discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71833	Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71834	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, State Secretary. So I'm going to correct the false quote of Mr. Maras who is actually in the saying, which he said and in some way commented that our citizens who order a certain job might actually be incorrectly and wrongly accused of having to check out which number, I'm speaking now in a way that understands better precisely, which number of shoes he has and whether he can do something or not. The Croatian people are not sheep. We know that every job that's done is issued by an account that exactly writes how and who betrayed it, which is his tax and... number and that's what's usually... [[You don't understand.]] business and work. [[You don't understand.]] So when I go to fix the car and it costs 2,000 kuna and a gentleman who will make my account clear and unequivocally on it will be all that is written down, which is necessary for this activity to be dealt with and there is really no dilemma there. And secondly, when we're talking and we're going to expose... A neighbor who is absolutely inappropriately potent here, but it's good that the law goes into another reading so I and my neighbor who will fix my TV, and when the inspector comes and sees that it's so noteworthy and nothing. [[You don't understand.]] And when he repeats it again 130 times with 130 neighbours in half the Croatian state then we know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71835	The club of representatives of HNS, HSU, Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go. ... I didn't notice, but go ahead. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71836	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, about what Mr. Turk said, so you incorrectly told Mr. Maras that we would bring our citizens into trouble in a way that they would have to investigate whether someone was registered, not registered, etc. So we just don't want those citizens to pay on their hands and the job to be done on black. And if they don't pay by hand, they'll get from each of those registered company accounts, they'll take a general payment and go to the post office or bank. Therefore, there is no way that any of the citizens should be concerned about whether someone is registered or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71838	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party Club, right at the beginning of the day, has already delivered one conclusion, which is to go in two readings, to go in the third reading with this law. And we welcome the decision and we appreciate that in time all the tragicity of this legislative proposal has been understood and that the possibility has been opened to correct, however, everything that is inconclusive in the third reading and that it is simply difficult to understand that someone can suggest it in the legal proposal at all. That's good. I'm sorry that on the Committee on the Economy, the parent committee did not come up with such an idea, but I'm glad that the parent board accepted the idea today. The second thing that I want to stress specifically about this bill, this is not a meaningless thing, the gray economy is not a meaningless thing, and when we talk about the gray economy, we definitely have one obligation to the European Union, and that is the participation of the grey economy in the total gross social product. And as is known, one of the criteria for the use of structural and cohesion funds is precisely a percentage, the ratio of the gross social product of certain regions to the average of the European Union. Therefore, in order to enable absorption, the system is certainly a very important and important item of participation of the grey economy in the gross social product, and therefore this law merits one particular attention, one special responsibility in writing the bill, but in this proposal, we do not notice this responsibility in the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party, but we hope that in the third reading in the final proposal of the law that this responsibility will be shown in the overall full and adapted to our conditions and our spaces and particularly traditional values. In particular, there is a need to clarify what the poet meant by this bill in almost every article. Article 5 is not considered to be carrying out an unregistered activity, so it is now listed what, if they are carried out on a smaller scale, or are normally carried out with enrolment... Definitely which means on a smaller scale, determines what this smaller range is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who determines that? Are those two television sets, five television sets, 10 TV sets, two light bulbs, three light bulbs, 10 light bulbs? What does that smaller range mean? I think already in this 5th article, reading this 5th article raises a series of questions and confirms the fact that the law is written opportunity, lightly, very likely or almost certain of good intentions. Article 9 also sets out what is considered a work for its own needs, so it is now listed. This specifically means that, for example, in a hair salon, employees can paint their own business space, they can fix their fans, in a textile drive, say an inspector can find someone to fix 10 sewing machines without a problem, and that's not a violation because it's for his own purposes. And almost certainly with this article was made possible by large, which have maintenance services and which have a resolved infrastructure that takes care of their system is that story, they are impunity there. However, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can definitely come into the area of punishment and it is difficult to believe that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can handle these matters in accordance with this law without being in breach. Article 10 to details are defined by a related relationship which is based solely on blood relatedness and the conduct of operations on this basis is not considered to be an unregistered activity, a direct bloodline up to the 4th generation, with a lateral line. But there's one interesting thing. The article excludes the title. I can't paint my father-in-law's fences. I can't do anything to my mother-in-law. You fellow Kunst probably know what, I don't know, maybe I'm stupid. A son-in-law can't paint his girlfriend's fence. He can't. It's funny to you, colleagues and colleagues. It's funny to you colleagues and colleagues, but that's what it says. That's what it says. And does that make sense? Next, how will you explain it to me? My son, my half brother, helps me paint the fence, and the facades, but he must always have a birth certificate, because his identity card doesn't prove it. It doesn't prove, and the fourth knee in that line, when there was a change in last name, does it prove to be related? On the birth certificate. Article 11 defines neighbourhood assistance. And that's those famous 500 meters. Is it an air line, a kilometer line, or a six-footer is taken, so round that 500 meters, so I hope the inspector has topographic maps and six-footer with him, and then he'll circle 500 meters to see if it's within the border or not, but now I'm asking why it's not 600? Or why isn't it 400? Because the promoter said 500. Since the proposer in the introduction based the idea of writing this law on very well-founded and scientific basis, is there any scientific study that indicates that this 500 meters is important? My neighbor at the cottage can't help me in the cottage, because he's in Zagreb, not in Bednja. He is not at Bednja, he is in Zagreb and has no residence upstairs. Go on. How will the 500 meters prove themselves? Grunt's expropriation, what? A castra copy? What's that gonna prove that I'm 500 meters from him? And the same nice thing. Article 14 which states that the inspector has the right to orally prohibit the carrying out of unregistered activities, so that he can seal the premises, etc., etc. So now I'm asking, let's say one of you who understands math very well, let's say as a colleague Kunst understands mathematics, he's giving instructions to someone and he's giving math instructions to someone. And now the inspector comes to him and what will the inspector do? They're gonna take the pen, they're gonna take the paper, and they're gonna seal the apartment. Respecting this bill will seal his apartment. Look, colleagues and colleagues, what's most tragic, the government is offering this proposal something as serious as a fight against the gray economy. Every democratic and responsible and on average able government is expected to propose a solution that and those operating in the gray zone will stimulate them to register their activity. That logic is far more acceptable to me. This proposal states, among other things, that a citizen is allowed to assist a citizen in domestic and similar affairs only on condition that in relation to the 4th degree of relation, or that the neighbours are not more than 500 metres away. The taste of everything, the conclusion of everything. In the appropriate... Citizens may be free of charges of illicit activities if they show relatives to the competent authority, which in certain cases means the submission of several extracts from the womb of born, or evidence of residence, and the finding of a geodetic witch of distance between the incriminating addresses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government believes that the lost billions of fiscal revenues will be compensated, as they will finally start paying taxes on grape harvesting, replacing candles on the car, cleaving wood, sticking nails, helping to move and similar subversive activities that have clearly taken place in every control. It is also clear that there are problems for the extraordinary marriage community because there is no possibility for a partner to change the light bulb if that extramarital community is less than three years old. Only if a child happened in three years, so it's possible. And that's what it says in this bill. To read, not write, but read. I think we too at the HNS-HSU club want to warn you of three very important things. First, to argue that this will prevent the grey economy, which our economy minister says is a key problem for our economy is almost and certainly not standing because the key problem of our economy is no one else but the government that literally breaks the economy with its fiscal burden and inaction and not by making moves that are necessary. The grey economy is an infallible indicator of inefficient economic policy. And crucially, our citizens are not going into the gray economy to deceive the state, although it is a legitimate form of civil disobedience, but rather to not be hungry. People retreat and flee from registered emergency activities, wanting to earn something for themselves. And the fact, and from this proposal, the law can be read, that a cunning and responsible government has ignored that high treason plot and has ended up proposing such a bill. Secondly, this proposal of the Law prohibiting the conduct of unregistered activities is also an entry into privacy. Is that what the state can afford? Or is he allowed to do that? Third, this law does not meet one of the fundamental criteria of legal norm, which are the applicability and ability to control and apply. Its feasibility is possible only with the involvement of the inspection and police apparatus with the additional assistance of the informant network. However, the state's institutions are already burdened enough with an epic fight against corruption in the exercise of regular duties. Therefore, there is also a question of how this will be done on this basis. Finally, the name of the proposed law is another indication of the absurdity of the proposal itself because, according to current laws, unregistered activity must not be carried out, which proves that in its inefficiencies, the Government is in good shape and self-esteem continues to function. We at the HNS-HSU club think that a better solution would be to decide to strengthen existing laws and institutions as well as to show the political will to implement existing laws and regulations, and then, in some other order, to address the issues that touch this bill. We at the HNSU Club will once again support the proposal's decision to go into third reading. We hope that in the third reading we will get an enforceable law, a second reading, in the next reading because this bill that we received from the Government from the Minister of Economy, so when it comes to Minister Djura Popioč, it is really too much. We hope the new proposal will be better quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71839	Thank you. A couple of registered credentials. First, Madam Representative, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Well, I've been listening to this comedy show by my colleague, Korajevic, unfortunately, it's an important law in the proposal to combat the gray economy, and you're disdaining it as much as ever. In the interest of your mother-in-law and your mother-in-law, I'd still like to say that you're cheating and misstated that you won't be able to paint a fence on them. You'll only be able to do it because otherwise you and your "Kukuriku coalition" are all for public good only, and below the table you're for that personal public good of yours. It is a sad way to present a good law that still needs to be done, and this is how you make fun of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71841	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, next correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71842	Thank you very much. Well, it's incorrect that fellow Korachević can't do anything about his mother-in-law. It is only if this law serves him as an excuse, but it is certain that the colleague Koračević can freely continue to sell fog to Croatian citizens and no one will punish him for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71843	House Vice-President Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71844	Kologa Koračević said at one point that these fellow citizens of our country working as black by the definition of our country, or this law, are not doing it because they want to fool the state. Well, that quote I want to partially correct. He's partially accurate. Indeed, those dealing with this law do not do so to deceive the state but rather from the necessity and lack of jobs on the labour market or enough jobs. But there are also those who do so knowingly and knowingly cheat on the state, but the state looks through their fingers. The team is not engaged in this law, and neither are existing laws that should allow those who truly steal the state and do everything they do to work on black or manipulate existing laws, steal taxes and contributions, all inspections define that everything is fine and that everything is good. Someone can make gross $120,000, pay taxes and contributions to six, and that'll be totally fine. Well, you see, my colleague, you weren't exactly right to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71845	Was that a correction not to the end of the exact quote? How far to the end? To what end? The trifling of the end. Madam representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I see it goes on in the same tone as it was on the boards and when it was the first time actually the bill was. Invisible cartooning, banalizing this topic. So there's the mother-in-law, the girl-to-be, and even my colleague, Koracevic, who I want to correct, said the government thinks he's going to raise funds by helping move or pick grapes. I call on colleagues to come freely in the harvesting of grapes does not have to issue an account because, of course, the law allows it. And the meaning of the law, I repeat, is not to charge the budget but to bring into order segments and prevent unregistered activity. Humor's welcome, but let's take it into some normal boundaries and deal with what the law is actually talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71847	State Secretary Ivana Kraljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71848	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I will just look back a little bit on the presentation of the esteemed representative Koračević, and that is because, in fact, when he said that in Article 5(2), when he commented on this comment and the text of the law which says those activities are being carried out in a smaller or usually carried out, he said that this is not good and that this should be clearly defined. Now, in the same situation, the proposer and the lawmaker were at the moment and the situation where we were to define and we are leaving the debate at this point that we might find a better solution, but so it's really hard at one point to ask us to define it more and more clearly, and on the other hand, when we clearly and unequivocally define it, then it's again something that's a problem. The also respected representative Mr. Maras said at the end of his statement that this bill was the most damaged and that Croatian craftsmen would be the most damaged. Here I have to say that the Croatian Chamber of crafts has been asking for the adoption of this Law for 10 years. It is very difficult for Croatian craftsmen to explain to a registered Croatian craftsman no matter what activity he operates and why every inspection can come to him, why every inspection can enter and no inspector can do anything about him or anywhere else. As far as craftsmen are concerned, it is in these activities that unregistered activity is the most common thing. It is also necessary for the Croatian public to say again and clearly this Law deals with the prevention and prohibition of the conduct of unregistered economic activities, any assistance, harvesting of grapes, olives, aiding, light bulbs, anything that is not the subject of this Act. Doing economic activity is when economic activity is done again every day, when income is obtained from it, and all of us, if we want to know and know very well in our neighborhood, in our neighborhood, who is who performs the unregistered activity and who are the subjects of this law. It has also been mentioned that the government is doing nothing to encourage craftsmanship, to encourage entrepreneurship which is not true, so we are now in the implementation of the operational plan for the promotion of entrepreneurship for 2011, 407.9 million kuna is intended from the state budget and focused precisely on the promotion and development of the small economy. Of which targeted and defined only for Croatian crafts 16.8 million kuna. Any beginner starting with business can receive support from 5 to 80 thousand kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71849	Thank you. Six registered papers again. First Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71850	So I want to correct Mrs. Secretary of State because she was in her intervention correcting my claim, something I didn't say at all. Because my key question is whenever I'm talking about an article 5 that defines in a smaller range, what's a smaller range? Who beareth the burden of this proof, and what assurances do they prove? Because the minimum courtesy of this legislative proposal is for clarity. I understand the clarity and the idea of a smaller scale, but it needs to be written, and I believe you'll understand the need for that, so in the next legislative proposal, write it down. And in conclusion, it is definitely necessary to curb the gray economy in all the garages because of craftsmen and for everyone and it is clear to all of us but make such a proposal to be enforceable. Or in existing laws you use as a tool to prevent it because it is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71851	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71852	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State said that I said that this law is a counter-turner, I didn't say that. I said that their help would be much better if the State Department, the government, thought about how to relieve them of tax burdens because believe these people who lost their crafts, who can no longer work who went into the gray zone didn't do it because they're aware of it, the bad ones, they just want to suck something up, they just can't take it anymore, and that's why they're going to the gray economy. That's where we should make more effort, and you say you're doing a lot of work to help crafts, but please, gentlemen, 53,000 jobs are lost in two years, if you do that, don't do it anymore, don't help at all, maybe it'll be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71853	Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71854	I am correcting the inaccuracies of Madam State Secretary that the Croatian Chamber of crafts was motivated by the exclusive struggle against the gray economy, the motives of the Croatian Chamber of crafts are something different, something much more modest. They have a big problem that the market is down, that the number of revolutions has been shut down and that traffic continues to drop, which is incompatible. Therefore, their ambitions were thus said by a representative of the Croatian Chamber of crafts at the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership to fight unfair competition in crafts, so they had no ambition to calculate when they proposed the adoption of this law with a grey economy because it cannot be claimed that this was an accounting with a grey economy this was only the regulation of a small part of the total grey economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71855	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71856	....which you, Madam Secretary of State, asserted that this law does not prohibit aid in the harvesting of grapes, olives, etc., amongst the neighboring assistance because you just, because you have narrowed down family assistance into a very narrow circle even excluded out-of-marriage partners, and you have reduced friendly assistance to 500 meters. Madam Secretary of State friendship is not measured by meters, it is infinitely without your meters and miles. Therefore, you are not helping with this law to suppress the grey economy and craftsmen, or to say to your coalition partner, "Don't help brothers, we've escaped."
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71857	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71858	It is entirely an incorrect claim by the State Secretary that this law does not deal with changes in the light bulbs and grape harvests. That's exactly what he's into. In fact, you say he's focused only on that activity that's being performed over and over again, which is being carried out. If that were the case, then you would not mention any family assistance or friendly assistance, since no such business is done again within the circle of a family because it is completely unimaginable, nor is it carried out within a friendly circle because it is completely unimaginable. Therefore, you do completely irrelevant things, completely irrelevant and therefore this law is as comical as you wrote it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71859	Ms. Representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71860	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, I'd like to know what's going on under the word "help." People with disabilities need help 24 hours a day and let’s say they don’t have a family and there’s no one in the family circle to help them, and they need 24-hour help, and of course they have to pay for it. Does that belong to the gray economy? So if I need 24 hours of help, the state doesn't provide me with any help, and I have to report that help so I have to pay my contributions as an employer and pay three thousand kuna. Does that belong to the gray economy? I ask you to continue to deal with this topic a little bit, because many people use various kinds of help that are outside of neighboring, volunteering, family and all the others you have listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71861	You didn't need that through the form of correcting an incorrect quote, because it was a request for clarification. The 74th session of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget will be held today at 12:30 in the office of the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, President Goran Maric, in his office. The National Minority Representatives Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71862	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The National Minority Club supports the Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity as it focuses on unregistered activity which is carried out and is not registered in a trade or other register. Already, the assessment that the grey economy or the informal economy in the Croatian domestic product participates between 16% according to domestic estimates and 35% according to the World Bank survey is devastating and we belong to countries with the most widespread grey economy, while at the same time 333 thousand registered at the Employment Office. Because of the grey economy, there is a strong disproportionate public income and public expenditure, unfair competition, they introduced into the register as taxpayers bear a greater burden in financing public needs, whether it was a health, schooling, and here is the answer from fellow Maras that tax burden will be reduced when those from the gray zone are involved. There is certainly the uncertainty of workers in the field of the gray economy because they really often work without health care, they have not been paid pensions, and labour rights can hardly only dream. In the last three years, as already said here today, more than 15,000 crafts have been closed, more than 50,000 employees have remained on the street and it is the craftsmen who have asked for the protection of legally registered activities, to introduce order on the market, to introduce and protect consumers. But certainly we all react immediately, but how do we protect the cleaning lady of the stairs, the janitor, how do we protect the catering from the household? But we must not forget that unfortunately they are in the gray zone because today we have companies, trades registered for these jobs and certainly every such undeclared work is illegal and competing with such a job. The only twists and small and medium-sized economies today create new jobs and indeed need to be created as favourable as possible and as much protection as possible. Because large companies will primarily reach out to new technologies, or they will reach out for the layoff of workers to maintain and ensure competitiveness. I must say that the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce were also interested in this law and as the secretary here said and were co-creators of this law. What is good in this law is that in some ways both the client and the performer of such unregistered works will be punished. What is certainly good is the possibility that inspectors would be able to enter places where they could not enter, and it was known that there was an unregistered activity. But there are also dilemmas that are also mentioned here today. The definition of family assistance, even though defined by family law, may also need to be used by English legislation and to add the family ties by marriage or as already spoken in English. Here's the problem, and I think the most dilemma has caused on all committees and on our board, but also at the club, and that's neighborhood help. What does that distance really mean at 500 meters? Is that a distance of 500 meters to the left and to the right? Is that a radius or a diameter of 500 meters? What does that mean in one populated place where it's going to be one whole street, which means in Lica where you don't even have a neighbor at 500 meters? It might be nice to think about defining it by number, because usually people communicate with each other, it's my second neighbor or my third neighbor. Whether it's a third or fifth neighbor would think twice about it and maybe that's how it's defined. But there's also the possibility of defining it financially or financially. Some countries have defined that work to that value can be done in one way or another, but after a certain value there is no way that this job is done by a friend, relatives, etc. Therefore, it is good that this goes into a second reading, that what many in Slavonia call what is really defined at some supplement, is more clearly defined because we know that very often in the field and in the more clearly defined laws of two inspectors, two different interpretations of one provision, let alone how much more vagueness we will leave. I want to say that we will really support this law, that it was you who really thought there was going to be another reading and we support it again. But I still have one sentence to say. We often call for Switzerland or well-ordered Western countries, but there the neighbour will report it, and that it will not be considered an informant but rather consider it to provide a job and to ensure the state's income. Therefore, somewhere we must start to control and punish the gray economy. If that's the law, welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71863	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71864	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The grey economy in Croatia directly damages employees who do not get a job because of such unfair competition, and pay all the taxes, and also those who earn on black by avoiding tax payments damage the entire system because they reduce the revenues of the state budget. It turns out that an entrepreneur who operates in accordance with the law and the state pays taxes for his honesty and respect for the law, while someone who works in the joint makes good money even though he may be being held unemployed. As a result of this unfair competition which has less operating costs, the one performing the registered activity is in an unequal position, and under the influence of the grey economy, the price of products or services in trade is even reduced, while the granting of the State remains the same. This legislative proposal is therefore one of the economic recovery measures, as well as the weapons in the fight against the grey economy, which in Croatia is moving from 16% to 30% of GDP, so it is not since yesterday but is a constant phenomenon in the Croatian economy. It concerns the fact that, compared with the new members of the European Union, Croatia is among the countries with the highest prevalence of the grey economy. The average for 10 new members of the European Union is 12.1%. The most representative is the area of service activities such as mechanical and hairdressing services, as well as the repair services of household appliances or buildings carried out in garages, houses and apartments, or related to vehicles, which so far has not been regulated by any law, and therefore it is necessary to ensure that the supervision and taking of measures against persons who are not registered in any relevant register are carried out illegally by those services. Thus, this law aims to prevent, for example, a legal and illegal auto mechanics workshop on the same street. Namely, the craftsman pays workers, taxes and materials, secures all the required conditions by law, sets out an account for each service and parts and managed books neatly, and his neighbor does the same job without paying obligations and liability and puts a clean profit in his pocket. This legislative proposal recognises the proposal's will to reduce the number of those who damage this country and society as a whole because they do not pay taxes on labour which do what leads to lower tax revenues. On the other hand, taxpayers carry a higher tax burden and have less health care or when it comes to pensions than they could have. We believe that this is particularly important because the fact that at least two, the one performing and the one ordering it, are still needed to carry out unregistered activities. It is therefore important that Croatian citizens also become aware that the use of fusse work is ultimately harmful to them. However, we consider it necessary to warn of Article 11. A law that defines a neighbor and neighborly assistance, or closeness of residence up to 500 meters, which we hold unclear. In fact, in the country people can be neighbors when it comes to greater distance, especially when it comes to less populated passive areas. The club supports and will support any legislative proposal aimed at preventing illegal business that threatens those working under the law, respecting Croatia's legal system and so on. However, we would like to note that, since the media has also called on how, after adopting this law, harvesting with friends will become a grey economy, the promoter explains whether this legal proposal can produce such consequences on traditional customs of providing friendly and neighbourly assistance such as harvesting grapes, olives or pigs. The issue also remains open and whether this legislative proposal defines the assistance of the daughter-in-law. The HSS MPs' club certainly supports what this bill is going to be doing in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71865	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71866	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, before I begin the debate, I'm glad that the government has accepted the proposal of the HDZ and HSS Club that this law goes in two readings for a simple reason that in two weeks we won't lose anything, and I think that some things may be more conveniently regulated. But listening to the debates of clubs before me and the HDZ club can't help thinking that we're ready for a topic that causes problems for all and developed and undeveloped countries, getting involved in political waters, not reaching out to real problems and trying to solve them. That this is how I will start by talking not only about the ban on the non-registered activity but about the gray economy, its impact on the gross domestic product that had to be done by new members of the European Union before entering and receiving the European Union, at the end of what we did in 2007, and we will probably have to do it once more before entering the European Union. So, depending on the development of certain countries and given that the gross domestic product is somehow a reference size based on which aid can be withdrawn from European funds, the logical thing is that members of the European Union are in the interest that all parameters that make up the gross domestic product are included and even those parts of the grey economy because that grey economy through the funds made in the gray economy later appears through consumption and through some new, other species. It is also very important to calculate the gross domestic product methodologically, so that all those that reflect on money from the same register have equal conditions. Thus, the old members of the European Union, from, in fact, the new members of the European Union in the period 2002 to 2004, were correcting their gross domestic product for the share of the grey economy, and highly conservative, but the average was around 12.1%, with the lowest correction being around 7%, and the highest correction 20%, with me thinking that Slovenians and Czechs were doing that correction twice. So the government of the Republic of Croatia did so in 2007 and EUROSTAT accepted it, I think we corrected our gross domestic product for about 16%. However, if we look at the share of the grey economy, so here I'm talking about the data that the economic institute has produced in its study, they are not arbitrary, arbitrary figures of someone in the ministry or elsewhere, but the economic institute has been systematically dealing with it for several years and if you look at, say, 1999 to 2008, how economic growth was, so the share of the grey economy has been shrinking. But something that is a fact, and we must not run away from, and we simply have to say, that because of the recession, the share of the grey economy in 2009 and 2010 has increased. And that's just facts we can't escape from. A large part of those small, smaller ones in principle closed the trades and stopped doing legal activity, one part of the activity continued on the gray market. Well, just a few indicators. So the largest share of the grey economy according to the economic institute has hotels, restaurants somewhere around 25%, and there's something we need to say, and we can even say that in a certain way it's a national insult. Someone comes to Croatia from strangers, buys an apartment, and then illegally rents it in front of our eyes, and we won't report it. It's something that just can't happen. But that makes these 25% gray economies when we talk about hotels and restaurants. The share of the grey economy in fisheries is 20%, in agriculture 10%, in the construction industry 11%, in the trade of large and little 12%, and in the provision of real estate and business services somewhere around 25%. So these are facts, facts that are before us and facts that we cannot ignore. Now, what was this law about to prevent? This law wanted to define what could be done without being considered... And don't break the law with it in principle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether the terms, whether certain proposals are best hit and given certain traditionalism in Croatia, should actually respond today to our debate. So let's not engage in political waters, but rather go concretely. If it's a dispute these 500 meters, then let's try to find some kind of a different term. If there's some kind of kinship, family relationship, let's try to find some other term. But also let's not close our eyes in front of some traditional stuff. There's little of us here that some friend or colleague... aided those famous waitressing works in the construction of the house and everything together, and that's something in the rural part of Croatia that's perfectly normal, because we can't get away from it, and now the normal thing that we can't look at is 500 meters away, there can be a colleague from 100 kilometers away and it can help, but it's not a gray economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are facts that we don't need to argue about. But we also have some facts that no one here has talked about today, for the reason that you might not want to object to someone or something, and even one comment from colleagues Maras that should raise the line for entering the VAT system 200 thousand kuna, which is that the biggest problem and the biggest share of the grey economy is in the professions that, I say, charge their services in cash. And you can take that back from the IRS wherever you want. It's just facts. And we can all fight politically, but if we don't admit the facts as they are, we won't solve the problem, and I think we're passing this law with the goal of solving the problem. And we can throw each other one way or another today. However, when you enter the tax returns analysis submitted, so when you look at the total income, what are the incomes of those who deal with cash, then you will see why this limit is 80 and not 200 thousand, because if you saw tax returns, then you would see that the largest part of those who deal with service activities to be charged in cash are basically below 200 thousand kuna. And that's one of the problems that we simply have to solve, because today it's why many service activities, and even some traditional ones have found themselves in a lot of trouble, and even in a situation where they can no longer carry out their activities, they can't settle their regular obligations, for the simple reason that someone in the joint does a few jobs, and they take away that part of their cake and they can't live. So these are facts we don't have to run from. These are the facts that are there, and these are facts that should be said in the craftsman's association. So first of all, they know it very well, and they must be aware that a large part of their colleagues have closed their craftsmanship, these petty, small, and some even with traditional interests that should be in the interest of both the state and the units of local self-government that these traditional occupations remain, but then all of us who participate in this process must work together. So the key provision of this law is that inspectors will be able to enter some kind of house where it is evident that there are apartments, but there are no tables, those tables ahead that indicate that this house is being rented, which so far has not been possible. He couldn't have done it without a special warrant. So that's a key provision. Let's talk about it. So no one will drive anyone to see if he is a colleague, if he will not help his mother-in-law or anyone else, no one will push anyone for it. But so the key thing is that supervisory inspection services can exercise control where they couldn't do so far, and that's basically what the promoter, so the government and the Ministry of Economy wanted to solve through this 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th article, and with the 14th article practically wanted to define what supervisory services could do to prevent the grey economy. And I think that today in this debate and in the name of the clubs, unfortunately it wasn't like that, but in a single one we should be dealing with how to solve, how to maybe improve some expressions in Articles 10, 11 and 9, if we criticize them so much then we probably have some kind of proposal to make it look better, for the simple reason that the gray economy needs to be reduced, the gray economy is evil. And now I'm going to say one more thing, colleagues and colleagues, when I've been listing the percentages of what economic activities have a share of the grey economy, then you'll see if we can repaint it into the state budget that exactly these activities gather a large part of the incentives from the state budget, and a variety of even tax exemptions, which is what you fellow Maras were talking about. If you look at their share in, then in the gray economy. So this is about hotels, restaurants, fishing, agriculture, just take that the share of blue diesel in fishing and agriculture, until the introduction of these smart cards, was almost around 300 million kuna, less collected into the state budget on behalf of it, and when you take what incentives are in agriculture and fisheries, where the incentives are over 3 billion and 600 then many take incentives and participate in this grey cake. And that's what we need to prevent, and there simply can't be politics. All for the sake of well-being, for the ultimate purpose, and this is the tax discharge of Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs, we must make a contribution to this law to be good and to be applicable. The easiest thing to say is that something can't be done within 500 meters. The easiest thing to say is that family is not defined one way or another. However, we must also not forget what I have already said, which is this Croatian tradition, every European country respects its traditionalism so we must respect it. So, we will probably have to correct our GDP by entering the EU or in the first year of membership for the share of the grey economy for the simple reason that it will be the reference size for us to get money from the funds, but also when we talk about preventing the gray economy and when we make the law then because we like certain groups of entrepreneurs or similar not here, at least not in this House, to close our eyes in front of those problems that are real. And I'm saying, unfortunately, we haven't heard that in the debates here today. Thus, the law is a good starting point to correct it in reading and reading, and to do one quality thing, and to reduce the grey economy into some limits that are acceptable. After all, everyone will benefit from it. And what I said in the end, a large part of those who participate in the grey economy cakes are using very encouraging funds from the state budget and even funds from the Employment and Social Aid and Child Compensation Office. So when you multiply it all together, then that benefit isn't just about 15 or 16% of your participation in GDP, but they're affecting quite a cake from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71867	Thank you. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71868	Thank you very much. The biggest one, said counterpart Shuker, is the biggest problem with being charged in cash. That's the problem, but it's not the biggest. You have, and I mentioned, it's incorrect that it's not the greatest. The biggest problem is that people were forced by large tax duties to run into that gray economy and if we'd solved it then there wouldn't be a problem and there wouldn't be, because people aren't by default focused on cheating. It's just that when you have a state boot on your back and you have to somehow survive and that's why I say that you need to raise these to 200 grand to get into the VAT system, that you need to relieve the craftsmen of certain tax ones, especially when they hire people. And in the end, you said well, many of them are making budget subsidies. But, Mr. Schucker, why didn't you control what we're getting from these subsidies? So you have subsidies from the budget, and of these subsidies there is no new value. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71869	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71870	You didn't control what subsidies you shared. You made social categories, and you didn't benefit from crafts and economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71871	Your time is up, Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71872	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71873	I'm asking nicely for another time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71874	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the infringement of Article 209 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is to be considered as an infringement of Article 209 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. - Comrade Maras, you were correcting something I However, I repeat, VAT is neutral as a cost to entrepreneurs. That's what we should know. The second thing, you have to be a legalist and you have to respect the laws that are in force at this point, and when I was talking about the gray economy, then I said that we should eliminate those who, by the existing laws at this point, get some things that don't belong to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71875	Thank you very much. The second correction of the incorrect quote, the distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71876	Thank you very much. Well, it's an incorrect quote from a fellow Shucker that no one will pursue anyone. You, your colleague Shuker, as a legalist, and you're known, in Article 11, that's what it says. Therefore, it is incorrect to assume that you will not pursue anyone. If we're making laws that we won't comply with in advance, then there's no point in passing such laws. And that's the illogicality of this bill, that's true. And finally, to a large extent, I agree and support your thinking because the problem of the gray economy is extremely large and very important in the ability to use funds. Very important, extremely important, and definitely all those craftsmen who are legally doing their job should be able to continue to work with pleasure, and punish those who abuse the goodness of the state and failure of the system. Because even in existing legal proposals, we could have prevented these things, but we don't stop them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71877	Thank you very much. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 12.07 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes and otherwise reported 16 individual ones. The second session of the Environmental Protection Committee will be held at the "Ivan Mažuranić" hall today at 13.30 p.m. and the board members will be invited to go to environmental protection. Now we continue the debate further. It is up to the club of independent, respected representative Đurđa Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've heard how many representatives and debaters have been reported. This is fully expected because it is a law that has been raised up with a lot of dust and before it has arrived at parliamentary benches, but we agree that this law is with considerable impatience and is expected because it has been announced as a measure of economic development, as a model of combating the gray economy, as a strengthening of ethics in the economy, but also responsibility, and, of course, as a measure of which we advocates also have to take special care, which is to fill the budget as one of the particularly important segments. Unfortunately, however, this law has a lot of misunderstandings. The intentions are obviously good. We would all support a law that would therefore prevent the gray economy, which would strengthen ethics in the economy, which would strengthen the responsibility, however, to be completely honest with this law, is only in the intention. By reading carefully the articles you will see that almost every article should be a footnote of an additional explanation, so I also read and read the law to ask some quite concrete questions so that citizens do not ask us if anyone read this law before it arrived. Of course he has good elements. We have definitions of the unrecorded economy, informal economy and statistics that can help us interpret Croatia's whereabouts. From the share of grey economy in Croatia in GDP, which according to our statistics is 16%, according to the World Bank, there are very devastating percentages up to 35% while the EU average is somewhere above 12%. We can be comforted that we are not Lithuania with 19%, but unfortunately we are neither Malta with 5.8%. We would, of course, like to be. In order for this law to come into force, for this law to be applicable, and for it to be valid, it really has to go into second reading, and we would not vote for it in the first reading that it was an emergency procedure, we could not, even though we have supported almost all the laws so far. Why? We could have been joking, I was just wondering if my sister-in-law could help me with my homework, it's not exactly safe, we should have some further explanations or my colleague complained if he could help the mother-in-law, if I could call my cousin from Slovenia or a friend from Italy Vice President, I'm glad you know that you know that I can, but I haven't been able to get such precise answers. I spoke to my colleague earlier in a joke, but in fact, because it shows how many holes the law has, and what about the godfathers, the godfathers in the church promise to help and the law can lead to the application. Of course you're telling me just before my colleague Shucker told me, no one's going to do it, there's going to be a healthy logic in the assessment, what if they don't? We already know at the outset that the inspector will be a reasonable man who will conclude that it is not punishable, which if he follows the law as it is written now, he has the right to punish us. What do we do then, then we'll tell me the vice president said differently. We need to be serious, the law that's passed should be such that he doesn't need a lot of fus notes, after this, we really need them. What I especially want to mention is that in this segment it is ineligible if we want it to be fair and if we want it to be logical, then choose to fix it until the second reading. You're all talking about 500 meters, so I'm really not going to repeat myself and my only suggestion about it and ours is to delete those ridiculous 500 meters without it turns out that we're not proposing anything, then we really need to see how to replace 500 meters. Clearly if you are looking 500 meters in Ban Jelačić Square or 500 meters where the first house is or something further, then you will see how pointless it is to write 500 meters. If we allow what you yourself have said that inspectors arbitraryly evaluate we can only be in the hope that their estimates will be good. So, this is a law with good intentions, this is a law that we must pass but forgive not such a law, and in this form I would not by any chance raise my hand nicely to listen to everything we have said regardless of the party colors and to make a law that is expendable and serious enough to reach the representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71879	Thanks to us, we have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71880	My colleague mentioned on two occasions the concept of ethics and ethical economy in the context of this debate, I would like to correct, in this case there is no ethics either. This is primarily a matter of tax exemption of work and in no way the fact that someone or God does not give that someone is evil, a hater of the Croatian state and will deliberately not sign up to pay taxes and contributions. The high burden of labour price is primarily and the key reason why the concept of this law went the wrong way, he had to ask himself differently, starting with the question why people do not register activity and not how we will stop it but why we will remove the cause of this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71881	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Honorable Representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71882	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, the fight against the gray economy is a necessary measure against unfair competition that is not disputed. But when a bill like this comes before us, then a man must at least be terrified. Especially when we listen to applicants who have made observations so far, it responds that these remarks are not directed against those who provide assistance and the like. This would be true for Madam Secretary of State if you did not engage in the exact definition of what does not belong to registered activities, which is why you have just created preconditions for the different interpretations of the provisions of the Law and the conduct of an inspector who likes it. Later, I will give some examples of real life to illustrate the indetermination of the proposed legal provisions. We have received parliamentary benches and preliminary reports from several Assembly committees, including the Committee on Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Tourism. These reports showed the problem of problematizing several proposed solutions, and most often mentioned is the problem of already having one of the 11 issues. A law that regulates the so-called so-called law. Neighbourhood assistance and that distance from 500 metres for which such type of assistance is allowed. It is estimated that this provision puts a concern in the conduct of state inspectors, to enter the area of neighbouring assistance, is intruding into the customs of small environments. If this were the only illogicality in this bill, then it would probably be easy and resolved, but this bill creates many more concerns which, in the application of this law, may and will be due to countless problems in the implementation of the law itself. I'll list a few articles in practice I can and probably want to cause a variety of problems. In Article 5(1), subparagraphs 3, 4 and 5 refers to situations where a natural person is considered to be carrying out an unregistered activity and, inter alia, it is stated that this is a situation where I quote: "a natural person carries out an activity that has not registered with the competent authority or has reported to the tax authorities. Where a natural person does not have legally prescribed acts on the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out a registered activity, and when a natural person carries out an activity despite a ban on carrying out an activity". Article 7 refers to legal or natural persons who are considered to be participants in performing unregistered activities in situations where I quote again: 'order, intercede or publish ads in the press via television, radio, or other media or advertising in some other way that is available to the public'. This article states that the advertiser is obliged to provide information on his or her identity, company or headquarters, OIB, name and last name of the person responsible or the name of the client, the OIB and its residence or residence. Articles 8 to 12 The draft law speaks of exceptions which are not considered to carry out unregistered activities and such situations are considered to be the following activities, therefore, work for their own needs, family, neighborhood assistance, carrying out necessary work to prevent accidents or eliminate the consequences of natural or other accidents, and volunteering according to a special regulation. Let us try to analyze Article 7 and possible problems in its application. On the local radio station Hrvatski radio Valpostin from where I come from but probably elsewhere in the Republic of Croatia there is a very popular radio show called Radio Stock Exchange, on which citizens offer radio and search various things, including selling old bicycles, selling old parts of tractors or cars, selling chickens, pigs, rabbits, fed pigs, selling old furniture and other life supplies. People are simply in the trouble they are in because of the difficult economic situation and survive. It turns out by this law that such a thing will be a crime both by the one who declares but also by the one by whom it is spoken. Because if we don't listen to a guy's ad, Janko Jankovic, OIB, the guy and the guy with the residence, I sell 10 chickens and 4 chickens very favorably with the included VAT on the person who gives the different ad sooner will welcome the inspector at the door than the potential buyer. And the provisions of Article 9 are a story to themselves. This is an article that belongs to services that can be charged through cash. This Article 9 defines work for its own needs "as activities directly and independently carried out by a natural person in order to maintain repair or improve real estate owned or entitled to use or any other real and compulsory right established for non-commercial purposes etc., as well as to prevent damage to movements owned by it and on which it has the right to use or any real or compulsory right". Therefore, all other activities in life, other than repairs of real estate or movables or repairs of the house or condition or bicycles, motors or cars, are not working for their own good. Well, I have to admit, I can't believe the office rat wrote this because I don't believe the Resort Minister himself saw what they're writing here. Although the Croatian public has countless opportunities to listen to any proposals by the ruling but this finding of what work is for your own needs to see the promoters believe me belongs to the rarely seen nonsense for the section Believe it or not. Because the problem is not what you cited as activities that are considered work for your own needs but in those activities that you did not cause to fall into this section. It is precisely these unlisted activities that may be if this article is not completed by the inspectors on the subject of punishment. If working for your own needs is just repairing the roof on the house, for example. the design of the apartment or the modification of the carpentry or the repair of the bicycle, motorcycles or the replacement of the blinker on a broken car, which are then for the proposer of activities carried out by people for the purpose of ensuring, for example, the minimum of existential needs such as the following. First example, is it generally known what level of unemployment in Croatia is? In a phenomenal economic policy, this government has created an army of unemployed. People stayed out on the street without receiving. They do as they know and can. In Slavonia and Baranja, many survive by doing even seasonal jobs called work in wages. It's the most common work in fields such as bathing, harvesting, and the like that that requires a human hand, not a machine. With this bill, it means that not only are the client of such a job, the owner of the country, but also the contractors, who survive from it "in carrying out unregistered activities". Does this mean that those who have lost their jobs thanks to this government's policy, if they want to survive working in the wages, have to register as an activity, register it with the competent authority and earn from 100 to 150 kn for 10 hours of work in the sun on bread and water that at the end of the day exhausted come to feed the hungry family and have to report this income to the tax authorities so they don't accidentally get rich? Here's another example. Every day, there is an increasing number of our fellow citizens who, in order to survive on the streets or beg charity or are street players or walk from containers to containers in search of food parts of shoes or clothing or collecting plastic bottles. In theory, this is not a work for its own needs for the applicant, but is involved in carrying out unregistered activities and is subject to legal sanctions, as counsel Shuker said, and these are the activities charged in cash. If no one says this is so that someone doesn't say this is a banana problem, I have to point out that it isn't, because what if one beggar or street player reports to another because he's competitive, because he's too close to him. So you go to the wages, you collect charity or you dig through containers to survive by earning 100 to 150 kn a day, and then at the end of the day, a state inspector comes to you and cuts off your fines from 10 to 30 thousand kunas because it says, "you're doing an activity that as a natural person you didn't register with the competent authority or report to tax authorities," and it still says, "and you don't have the legal terms to carry out these activities" and it takes away the illegally acquired property, that's what you collected as a charity and so on. So, from now on, go to the wages, beg or collect in containers, the Proposer introduces not only as a new activity that you must register in a commercial court and report to the tax administration but it turns out that you can carry out this activity you will have to have legally prescribed conditions. What conditions? What we will receive as a next step on the government's parliamentary benches is a proposal to introduce ourselves into the educational system of schooling and the profession of beggars, street player, extremist or collector in containers. It is also an interesting provision in Article 9 which defines that a natural person may carry out the permitted activity directly or independently. And that says he can't be a second-in-commander who's going to work on his instructions. This means that if we come to help someone who has spoken to a disabled person, either immobilized or because of a disease that is incompetent to work directly or independently, it can only give us instructions on what they want us to do. And we came, for example. for the purpose of changing the long-term cleavage, either due to the introduction of corn into the stocking or to the split of wood as a preparation of the heat for winter. But we can't do this, it's illegal. Either the person who ordered the sick person will get out of bed alone, out of wheelchairs, or throw the crutches for walking, climb up to the roof, change the crumbs, go get a basket of corn on a sock, and then take off the stretcher on the leg, climb up the ladders to that sock, go take the axe into your hands and kick on the trees for 4, 5 hours despite the fact that she recently came from a heavy operation either she will or she and we who came to help her pay the fine. This turns out to be that famous line that reminded me of one sentence a long time ago, says, when you help a 100-pound closet, your husband stands there and looks at his wife and says, "You just work and I'll cook you." Here you go. Not only have you left hundreds of thousands of people from the government and their families with your politics, incompetence without work, made them poor, hungry and social cases, to be mocked by such a bill and mocked. This way, believe me, Francis Tahi didn't treat his farmers either. Such a bill is a message beware of the Croatian poor. After the cordon of the police and special forces sent to you by the HDZ government, here is now sending tax collectors into the uniforms of state inspectors, because these are effective measures by the Government in curbing the grey economy. The poor woman will draw the state out of the crisis, and those who stole the country in time and safely hid the prey will prescribe measures to help the country get out of the fungi. It's not to believe. There are also interesting solutions that the law offers with neighbouring assistance. For example. At our place in Slavonia and Baranja someone had already spoken the tradition of pork. From now on, I can go to a friend and a neighbor who lives across the street from me, but I can't go to someone who lives 600 or more meters away from me, either by chance or I can go to him or he can't think of calling me, would I have to report him to do an illegal act? Because by the definition of this law, we are no longer neighbors, as if we live on different planets. Well, now this reminds me, in the end, of what you know from the government, not as if we live on different planets, but as if you've been thrown out of some other galaxy into the Ban Courts by some big bang. What decisions are being made in the Banski dvori, the ruling furniture is increasingly similar not to the Croatian government but to some UFO that orbits the Croatian sky over the unfortunate Croatian citizens, taking pictures of them and a view of the scale of the disaster that has hit them with your policy. We hope that you will fly very quickly in an unknown or well-known direction, and to the satisfaction of the vast majority of Croatian citizens, disappear from the horizon of the Croatian political authority because who is flying low, and when you land from power, it will be a shock that will record the seismic services not only in Croatia but also significantly wider, and it will be a desirable earthquake, because your shaking on the ground will also follow the calming of the ground after that in Croatia and will begin the recovery of the damage to your catastrophic policy. The fight against the grey economy as a measure of recovery of the fallen economy is necessary, but when this struggle is referred to by a government that has led to such branches that the Republic of Croatia is characterised by the country with the worst economy and with the worst perspective of its growth in the whole region behind Serbia, Slovenia, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria, then the HDSB club will not accept such a bill for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71883	Thank you. And as the last club of the SDSS, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71884	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. I was on the Committee on Development and Reconstruction one of those who felt that this legislative proposal should go into another reading, so I voted because I simply felt that this was a very important topic for discussion, that the competent ministry had put up a lot of time, quite a time to try to shape this concept in a way that it was all fitting and that it was all being implemented and we think that this is precisely why the second reading is the key thing that needs to crystallise all of this from this debate so that you finally get one legal text that will fight with all of these, or regulate, all of these monsters that Minister Shucker pointed out to us and the predecessor on behalf of HDZ, thinking about prevention and grey economy and unfair competition. So, in this legal text, we recognize that these two very large concepts are articulated, large problems. This is preventing unfair competition and we are absolutely without delay to find a legal framework, find a mechanism, repression to prevent this unfair competition, eradicated and to bring it all together on the market in some order. Another articulation is the gray economy. That would be a category to discuss anyway. I'll say something about it later and I'll say why I think so. The unfair competition is therefore something that we need to discuss more quality and devote more time and that this legal text has been dealt with only with this topic and that it has therefore stood in the way of preventing unfair competition, that it has given mechanisms and given legal solutions I would be completely satisfied. I even have some family experiences because I'm the son of a craftsman who had a registered activity and I know what it means to a craftsman when there are more competitions in the middle that aren't registered with that same thing and how much more expensive is the product of these loyal and registered craftsmen than these unfair ones. So with this thing, I'm completely clear, and I think that this legal text, I repeat once again, should have been stepped up to deal with the problem of unfair competition. As far as the gray economy is concerned, we have some kind of, clearly all of us have data that is the ratio of the gray economy from the International Monetary Fund's assessment point of view, how much is that, compared to the gross domestic product we estimate, etc., I don't have to talk about these scales specifically. But the question is, are we, by eliminating some traditional behavior, the traditional values that we are trying to do here through certain provisions of this law, are we going to achieve the effect of abolishing the gray economy or are we simply going to discipline those of the poorest, most sensitive social layers? In my case, I'm talking about seasons or superintendents here, so-called. For farmers in agriculture. I don't think this law prevents the grey economy or the effects of the gray economy, because as long as we have a situation today that individual lawyers have a prescribed tariff for their appearance in court, and at the same time we know that in a different way they charge these services considerably more, so that's what the former Minister Schuker was talking about, so cash payments are cash. As long as we have, that no one finds themselves called, but the fact is that we have situations that go to a private dentist so we pay him in cash, so we pay him certain services that are measured by thousands of euros, as long as we have managers in sport who don't pay high transfers to the state tax then we can talk about the gray economy as a dangerous thing, and we can't talk about curbing the gray economy if the superintendent is working, I repeat, if he works seasonally for 150 kuna a day because it's life and we discipline things on it, we want to prevent the gray economy then we're not on a good track for this law to be accepted. Because the law as it is, is, the legislator brings it but it must be generally accepted by those people to whom it applies. In our opinion, this legal text is either life-long or at least life-threatening for some technical reasons. Here, I'll just say a few. The fact is that this law could be implemented he must have certain control, control carried out by inspectors. We know that at this point we have about 450 economic and 250 labour inspectors and the question is whether all these inspectors will be able to control the implementation of this law on the ground physically, or what is the financial effect of their work. I have a feeling that these inspectors working on the ground won't even earn their salary by controlling this part of the gray economy that we're talking about right now. There is also a question of incurring private property, i.e. it is known that controls in private property cannot be carried out without a court order. So without a court order, you can't get in control of private property. The question arises whether courts who are usually busy in their business, in various jobs, and in their responsibilities, will be able to issue fine-tuning orders in due time, and a practical question is then raised until such a single warrant comes in, for example. For a master or a hairdresser, he is already, for his control, already located somewhere else, etc., etc. The famous 500 meters and the neighborhood assistance. That's the thing that's disputable, all the colleagues said that, I wouldn't talk too much about it. I think it's quite illogical, because if I wanted to be consistent and ask if it means that the neighbor is 501 meters away, which is 501 meters away, is in a 30 thousand kuna violation, or if my neighbor, who is at a distance, is not in a 30 thousand kuna violation? We can say that that's the case, but that's what this law says, and I'm commenting on a legal provision. So I think this thing needs to be arranged, I mean, it shouldn't have been in the law. To make the text of the proposal much more serious for the debate if it hadn't been for this, because obviously that the focus of all the debates is finally going back to those famous 500 meters, which is quite a illogical thing. We got an explanation on the board that the inspectors were looking for. Well, they don't, they don't make inspectors legal text. The promoter is someone above those inspectors who needs to correct those inspectors in some of their proposals, if that doesn't make much sense. The next thing I know, this law is lifeless, and that's a very important thing for us in Slavonia. We're holding on to some tradition. So in tradition there is so-called. Some kind of exchange of help, human help, friendly, family, neighbourly, etc., I help someone, he helps me, and that's how this life works, and it's going to work after this law. There's a tradition of application, so-called. applications where people help each other to pick corn, lift corn to a stocking, pick apples, pick plums, pigs, masonry, etc., and those things we can now say by law is unacceptable, or acceptable to certain elements, but definitely that tradition, that tradition will remain by my assessment and live longer than this legal provision lives. We finally think that the worst reflections, the most negative reflection of this law, will be on agriculture. We in agriculture, agriculture is now no matter what all the machinery and regardless of all the equipment, it continues to rest today on seasonal workers so-called. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's a very important thing, because it's a large number of people, so it's not a controversial case, so now someone's going to help someone. It's a category of workers who work seasonally for 3, 4, 5, and even for 6 months in agriculture, it's a large number of workers, we're going to come as a country to the situation that we're going to have to import seasons because they won't have enough on their market to regulate it I don't know. It's about the urgency of the job. You can't calculate there with time or with legal bans, when it's time to read something then read, when something is taken off, it's coming off, and there's not a lot of calculatoring. You people have to find these people, you have to pay those people, and that's something that's life, that rests agriculture. I also have to say that this category of people is basic life existence. Many have lost their jobs in the conversion of combinations, are left on the street and are now drawn into the worm of doubt and the fear of the potential that because he works for 3 months, and provides himself with some kind of reward, and pays himself, pays children tuition or prepares for winter, insinuates some kind of inspector, some punishment I don't think is correct, according to that category of people. We still don't have specialized companies, companies like that in the West, which organized, organized these people's competitors, so it introduces them into the system, hires them, pays taxes on them, etc. We still don't have it. This thing would make sense if we had such a regulated market, and such an orderly economy. Unfortunately, we don't have it yet, and I'm afraid we won't have it for long. Furthermore, many OPGs are not still in the VAT system. Therefore, they have no obligation to be in the VAT system. So they don't pay their taxes on their work, how they're going to pay taxes on those 10, 15 execs who do his seasonal work. There's a lot of unspeakable things that need to be done in this category, so this part of the law needs to be put in order and done. There are clearly many other life situations, and now is not the time to talk about it, but the fact that these restrictive provisions will generally limit the small, ordinary and actors of some kind of life, and they will not touch some large, conditionally speaking large fish that are large generators of the gray economy. Finally, we accept some assessment that the intensity of this law is a higher goal of introducing order into the economy, i.e. avoiding this famous unfair competition, not that it is the control of small people, or protagonists today in the economy. However, the fact is that the law is designed so that the provisions are very restrictive, and when you have laid down the provisions restrictive, then you give the possibility to anyone who calls on such legal provisions to react in accordance with them, or in other words if you have authorised the Inspector General to control everything then controls even the one who works for 150 kuna this wage, and what we say in principle does not apply to that category of people, it is only a principle debate. Once he brings it into life, the legal provision as it is stipulated, thus empowering even the inspector to behave in such cases. Therefore, it is very good that, that the clubs have accepted the initiative that this legal proposal goes into another reading, we will support it if, of course, this second part is quite unspeakable and refers to 500 meters, to family assistance, etc., do so, and then we will in any case raise our hand for such a legal proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71885	Thank you. We've closed the debate on clubs, and we're moving on to an individual debate. The first one is President Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71886	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. What is to be told of this bill to the government? That this week with such bill proposals is more harmful than usual, which we're used to. When the government does something, it seems to be more harmful than it does nothing, because the effect of those measures is more harmful than the state itself that the government is trying to fix by some measures. So here we are all morning, today we are discussing the final draft law, amendments and additions to the Mining Act and the final proposal of the Law on Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity. What does these two draft laws have to do with it, and what are their main effects? They have a lot of connections, because this proposal amends and supplements the Mining Act is allowed to exploit ore treasure without any kind of change, so it is legal, without any permission, without concession, millions and millions, to make hundreds of millions of dollars illegally. And nothing will happen to anyone, because it'll be remedied later. It's procedure, then. But if, according to this bill, you dig up the mineral treasure here and that size, and that amount, but if you're here to a neighbor who lives 501 meters away from you and a sick one with whom you've been in long-term friendly relationships to dig up the yard, you've earned the penalty. That's forbidden. So, in this country, stealing is allowed, and something that kept us going, gentlemen, kept us in this crisis, friendship, togetherness, solidarity. It's an indestructible urge, thank God, to our citizens who are being prevented by this law. And that's something that's inadmissible for every conviction. And it's something dangerous. Namely, where the state doesn't function, the gray economy. And no one's... is here to ban the gray economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this law bears the name of the Law on Banning and Preventing Grey Economy. Which means that all the hairdressers, the auto mechanics, all the craftsmen, all those who had the registered activity were fools to you because so far they could work completely unpunished and not be registered. Because you're interpreting us here and explaining this bill you claim, and you're responsible for saying that you couldn't sanction those who had unregistered activity. Which is not true. Because even with the latest amendments to the law in the inspectorate, something that is forbidden by the State's Attorney's office and by the police in certain cases, in regular cases without a court order, you can go into apartments and control. That's what we've done with the last changes. So the gray economy is evil and it has no one against suppressing the gray economy. You could have done that by now if it was ineffective to the existing regulation so far why don't you change the laws so far? Or do you want to admit that so far, for eight years, the continued rule of this government has been allowed and that you have tolerated it so far? But it's not just that evil -- the gray economy, we have here something that is unknown to any political system, which is unknown to any economic policy that we have in Croatia, which is the economy, the black economy. Well, I don't mean black metallurgy. It's been destroyed a long time. It is harmful for Croatia by you, and they were not harmful terrains where such metallurgy was destroyed anyway privatized as we already know. But we have the blackest economy, we have the economy of black bags. That's how campaigns were financed. That's our problem, too, which isn't finalized. Of course, where the state exploits citizens will always find ways to exploit, that is, to deceive the state. And it's an eternal struggle. So in this abnormal relationship where the state, or government, is not based on the fundamental values of trust with citizens, the government must trust the citizens, it must show that it cares, above all, that it has a soul. So he doesn't want to see a citizen go ahead and see how he's going to cheat on her. But in order for her to behave like that, and to have that kind of trust, she has to be just and bring laws first of all to protect the weakest, not all of her operatives, and that repressive one to the weakest ones, and that's exactly what you're doing to this law. Because it's forbidden, I say, those are the greatest values, which are the values of community, friendship. Someone here said they were traditional values. These are always modern values and must be the most modern values. And in them the government clearly sees as one obstacle and sees it as a danger. Isn't society enough for you... Dissociated, alienated? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, then, and to this last, last relationship that is worthy of people's friendships, neighborly good relations, especially in the time of the economic crisis when you have to encourage that unity, then you here forbid it. Here it was said that here we are politically discussing these things, that these are minor things, and that the intensity of this law is to ban the gray economy. I repeat, is the gray economy, or working on black, allowed so far? And there's nothing she could have done about that inspection by now? It's a lie, it's a fraud and it's not true! And if it were true, then you're guilty and responsible again. What have you been doing for eight years? What have you been doing for eight years? And indeed they made those who were responsible, who paid and contributed all things regularly and the workers, so they gave out accounts, that they were fools. So, indeed, those who are legally acting on you are men worthy of every laugh. Isn't the gray economy paying off a worker? Isn't that unfair competition? But what does the government do? At 2, first we had it in 2003 while we were in power, so you abolished it, or your arrival made it faster the Constitutional Court abolished that provision, and in a few changes it was never within the scope of your attention. Then when we suggested it at 2, 3 a.m. to sanction it because it's not only immoral but it just leads to unfair competition, you ignore it. However, the government is writing a reply that frequent amendments to the law would endanger legal certainty. Now you can see what kind of legal certainty that is, for you, legal uncertainty is maintaining an illegal state. And this is really a scam if you think this is how you figure that you're fighting the gray economy. It is true that it is very devastating for those small craftsmen and many have closed the crafts because of such unfair competition, because of those people who work in black that you have tolerated, but also because of high taxes. And then one joined the other. And now you want to figure out this bill, so we're the ones who decided to end the gray economy, not the ones who should be responsible for the gray economy getting this far. If we look into the law a little bit, so we look at what these things are to man himself, so just our own work, self-help, so he's not helping others, but to himself, so besides some real estate repairs, that's where we think about houses on apartments, his own land, and some devices, a man can't do anything for himself. You're saying it's not like that, but it's literally law enforcement, and you're interpreting that it's not like that and there's no concern, but that's not what it says. And man, therefore any activity for himself, therefore all that he cannot and will not pay for because he can do it himself because he saves our household and our family, which are intrusive in many things, which they themselves sew. They do housework, they maintain the house, they paint the house, they replace up-to-date installations or other things, or they help friends. It's now forbidden by you. The circle of friends, or the circle of relatives, of which you did not even prescribe it, as the Law of Inheritance says, would be at least correct if you followed that line to know which Tabusian kinship or those to the blood relative in the auxiliary and straight line, and you excluded the extramarital comrades that are equalized by the law here. Likewise, I appeal to you once again, you cannot legally limit friendship, not by meter, not by mile, not by money. It is because of friendship but you don't understand it and you'll never understand it because it's in you...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71887	Please, you've entered the red take care of it, of the weather. God forbid and I don't want you to end up in a black bag, I really wouldn't want you to. Correction of an incorrect quote by Đurdjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71888	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State. Well, here you are, colleague Anticevic, by your old custom when you can't change a single fact in this government, which is how it works, you were terribly unhappy when Mr Barroso spoke here about how the government works and congratulated her on everything she's done, then you dramatically want to change perception. However, people know that you did not support economic recovery measures. If the government didn't work, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of colleague Anticevic that the government is not working, and that there are black holes, the government is doing so also said Mr. Barroso, and you did not support anything this government has proposed, the Croatian people know. On the other hand, the biggest black hole for over 10 years has been the City of Zagreb under the leadership of the SDP and now Holding, there is no larger one from which to draw funds for the election of your campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71889	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71890	I thank Mr. Vice President, counterpart Anticevic Marinovic has made several incorrect allegations of which I have noticed two. First, the state uses its citizens and second all its repressive regulations to the weakest, that is incorrect both. For example, we discussed social care last week, which you did not support in this context, social benefits do not decrease, that is the first part. In health care, more than half of the supplementary insurance for the weakest salaries of the state, so in that part, but it's nice to hear such social sensitivity and why you weren't so socially sensitive at the time when you were the minister of justice, when you were cutting the rights to Croatian wartime disabled people, maternity benefits, compensation for protection, reduced salaries to nurses, doctors, etc., why you didn't so loudly advocate the rights of those who needed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71891	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71892	Now, the distinguished hands of a spinning representative, explaining or correcting my false claim, he said one great untrue and said that I as a minister reduced my rights. I personally suggested the Croatian government accepted it, so the violation of the Rules of Procedure is that it is an inaccuracies because that increased rights and protected work by introducing a crime of non-payment of wages, that is one thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71893	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and look at yourself, you have a Rules of Procedure with you, so look at yourself. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71894	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, you have partially explained, Article 209 has been injured. So, my colleague Anticevic, I didn't say that you were downsizing, but why weren't you so loud.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71895	Thank you very much, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure either. Now we're going for a few replicas. What's the matter? Let's move on. A few replicas. First, she is a respected representative of Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71896	Thank you. It's amazing when every time a country decides to deal with some kind of social phenomenon, it always does it precisely and without error, it does it over the back of the poor and the sick. When healthcare debts were to be settled, additional insurance and participation were introduced, so it was a direct blow to the sick. When there was a recession to fill the state register, it was a direct blow to the workers. Now they've declared war on the gray economy and they're hitting on the weakest again, on those who patch up the failures of the same country and ensure their survival. So it's absurd to hit those who live the hardest, while those who have a properly registered activity, install toilet shells on the highway for 15 thousand kuna, per piece or paint tunnels for 250 kuna per metre square, twice. So you had the right to government is least harmful when nothing actually works.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71897	Thank you. I would, however, be praying before I give my word to the esteemed replicator, the replica must be on a thorough display, so please stick to it. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71898	It was such a replica, and there will be a reply to the replica. Not only does it not protect the weakest but it protects those who no matter what status they are in if they earn their own, it does not protect them. So the payout isn't for this power no observant act, it's not part of social danger, it's something we've been introduced, they've been abolished, we're suggesting they won't endanger the employer's legal security, that security is being protected. And you speak well of him who has earned his income, who has not received his salary, the state does not protect him, and when he goes to feed, to survive, he has wondered how this worker who earned his own could survive to do something, something really in the fusing business, and he will gain responsibility here. The inspector will come to him, not the employer who owes him a few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71899	Thank you. And a replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71900	Thank you very much. In your basic presentation, you mentioned that the government unfortunately did nothing to help the citizens, but they had to help themselves in a situation of friendship and in some ways go through this crisis. That's a fact. For the last 8 years, no new job has been open, we've been in charge of hundreds of billions of kuna, public spending has been increased, and it's 30 billion euros in debt, but, unfortunately, it's all in favor of what you said. So the government isn't helping the citizens, it's in a very difficult situation that's got everyone I'd say ordinary actors of everyday life, and here on that side you're absolutely right. Unfortunately, the government doesn't control the ones that should be controlled either, because the gray economy and when you pay part of the salary on your hands, when part of the service is paid by hand and the part is on the bill. And that's why the IRS doesn't control those people who are very rich, and they don't have cover in what they've earned. Which is why when someone has some let's say the catering facility isn't registered in it or has a company not registered in it, there's no income, barely pays salaries to those who work there, it's zero and there's no profit, but there's houses, there's cars. So the money had to come from somewhere. It's a gray economy this government doesn't want to deal with. They don't care how those who cheat on taxes, who cheat, who steal money and don't sanction it. Here we go to those who will be friendly to help their neighbors eventually survive in this recession. That's the problem, unfortunately, that you indicated here in your basic debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71901	Thank you. Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71902	Here's a very short one. Not only is the government not helping citizens like you said, which is very destructive because the government is just expected to be constructive, and that's why the government and the state serve, but it forbids this law to help each other, and that's what's not going to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71903	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71904	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, in the basic presentation of Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic, it is said that this law could be given a second name. And the name would be the law on combating solidarity between people, friendship, community, tradition and even a little privacy and good neighbourly relations. It is true, and in connection with your presentation, I can shorten mine and say that there is one saying in Slavonia, which is "Better to disappear the village than the customs". And as for the black economy and the grey economy and the differences, this would be exactly the gray economy that this law speaks of precisely this solidarity and community, friendship, traditions, good neighbourly relations, and this black economy could be called the state economy. Namely, how do you explain it to the grey or black economy if the state gives an incentive to someone, and he donates or sponsors a political party or states even though he gives her a job at HAC so that he can sponsor the party for another year. I can give you names and names as many as you want. And it's that black economy, I don't know what the economy is, gray, black or black. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71905	Replicated representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović: Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71906	In friendship, in helping, therefore, our people as you quote this saying that it is better to make the village go away than the custom. No, my colleague, let the village and the custom remain, but that's why this government has to disappear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71907	You don't mean to disappear. Replica, esteemed representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71908	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Anticevic, I'd particularly like to apostrophe from your basic statement on how it looks like the law makes us pass such laws that it's allowed to steal, but it's not allowed to help. This is unfortunately true and this bill of law as it came to our bench today is aimed against the poor, not to prevent the gray economy. Because in the 6 articles that have been processed in this bill, you only speak in the two subparagraphs of Article 5 about legal persons about companies, and you have dedicated everything else by defining or trying to define or specify what natural persons should not do and what is worse, you only define partially. All that's not written down in that law that can't be done is the subject of a possible punishment for anyone who does. That is why it is suggested that it be done or completed and that you be precise or that you really do not send anything as it is said. Unfortunately, we have witnessed many times that from the Croatian government it would be really better if nothing had sent us any legal proposal here, because it is even less harmful for the Croatian state than to get anything. And you know there's also what I read today about how one got rich on an empty 200-page book. Prior to that, he wrote a big book, didn't earn anything, and now he published a book of 200 blank pages and earned a million euros. So it might also be more useful for Croatian citizens to come up with a bill completely empty that will not harm Croatian citizens than to make such a bill that will make them an even greater poverty than they are. And you know there's another benefit, and it's a lot of times better if the prime minister didn't speak, I did, so talk in the Croatian Parliament in Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71909	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71910	Here I go. Excuse me, excuse me, let me finish. But it would be much better if Mrs. Prime Minister already wanted to say it in English because then at least she entertained the people. As soon as he speaks in Croatian, most of the citizens of the hair on their heads rise.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71911	Thank you very much. And distinguished representative, replica, Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71912	My colleague, grey labour and the gray economy is evil, there is no dispute about it. However, in the opening part of the law, the grey economy is listed here as four components: the illegal economy of prostitution, gambling, etc. where there's a huge space that's not even touching for now, an undeclared economy that's back here we don't have proper legislation, an informal economy, but it's starting from something where the least we can do it. The initial premise of this law is that gray work or unreported work, unregistered work is evil, but is greater than unregistered work unregistered. Going hunting for people who work in conditions where we're a country that has 44% of employees from a working-active population, one of the lowest rates in Europe, is absurd. That's absurd. Not hunting for the unemployed. Here is the question why in the Netherlands a man when repairing a car registers and registers, whether because they are better people, fairer and Croatians are unfair, shovels or is the reason in something else. I'm a great empathy, and with compassion I'm looking at the secretary of state. In the vault she represents here, that question is not solved. This is a matter primarily to be resolved under the tax system. The burden of work, once again, is so much so that it dims people to register in any way, that it stimulates them to go into illegal work even more than it is now and what the data here is showing. So that's the scale of the problem, we have to change the whole paradigm, the concept of solving the problem. This way, by restricting it simply and by restrictive measures, it will not be possible to achieve it and it is a wasteful job.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71913	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71914	Just what you just said, the craftsmen said it publicly, so not hiding, just through their chamber, what workloads are, what giving, what parafiscal burdens are. On them lies essentially the entire burden of the survival of the state, on them, on those small craftsmen and medium craftsmen. And they just said that, we can't, many are closing their turns because I can't take that tax press anymore, which isn't even press anymore than repression. And they said open, we'll lock up and we'll work on black. And what are you, you had an answer to o? You're here sending inspectors to the neighbors.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71915	Thank you. This will end today's morning session. We'll continue our individual debate at 3:00 this afternoon. The first in line is Honourable representative Nadica Jelash. Thank you very much. Dear MPs and MPs continue to work in the afternoon. As I have announced, we continue with an individual debate. First in line is Honourable representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71917	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. As we could read in this legislative proposal, according to the estimates of the World Bank, the grey economy in Croatia accounts for as much as 35% of the annual gross product, so more than a third. Which means that in the gray zone ends every third kuna of newly created value. Therefore, the law whose intention is to deal with unregistered activities, with an unregistered economy, should therefore be supported with the grey economy. However, this legislative proposal in the form in which it was sent to the parliamentary procedure is really clumsy, it could also be said that an unserious tool to address such a serious and hard-core economic and social problem as the grey economy is. And that is why it is a good decision for the Proposer to go to second reading with this legislative proposal, so that it can be fixed and completed. The law resents, among other things, that it primarily has a mandate to fill the state register with fines, that small players will again suffer, and that it will continue to rotate millions in the gray zone, such as those illegal mineral exploiters that were mentioned in the previous agenda point. It is also an observation that it is not good timing of the law, i.e. that work in fusse has a kind of social dimension because many are actually the only way to survive in a really difficult economic situation when the government has no capacity to create new jobs and create conditions for employment. In his discussion, too, Shuker documented, or confirmed that the grey economy had grown precisely in the period of escalating the economic crisis. And by the logic of things, that would actually mean that the grey economy could also be most efficient in reducing precisely by economic growth and by increasing living standards, which is precisely the government's job. This legislative proposal turns out to be hypocritical if it is assessed in the context of the fact that in Croatia almost nothing or anything is done about the phenomenon that 70,000 Croatian citizens are working and are not getting paid. So, work without pay can, help the neighbor from another hill more than 500 meters away, there it is. Unseriousness of this legislative proposal gives the fact that the largest space is actually given to a list of exceptions that are not considered to be carrying out unregistered activities. And they're really completely superfluous. I think of why it should be particularly stressed that the exception work for your own needs or family, that is, neighborhood assistance to prevent accidents or eliminate the consequences of natural disasters. It's really completely superfluous. It's like you're passing a law that forbids crime, banning crime, robbery, etc. However, despite this very extensive list of exceptions that do not constitute the carrying out of unregistered activities, some traditional habits of people in certain local areas, or regions, have not been respected. How will you prohibit, for example, my Međimurians or Zagorians from hiring their friends more than 500 metres away on grape harvesting, on a stake or on corn blending? Will we ask that the helpers wear a birth certificate, a marriage certificate, or any other document to prove their relationship with the grape harvest organizer? However, the secretary of state assured us that such transactions would not be sanctioned, but the fact is that that is not what the law says. The biggest damage from working in the field as a mass phenomenon certainly has Croatian craftsmanship. For them, the gray economy is the problem of all problems. In recent years thousands of craftsmen have failed, the truth not only because of working on black but also because of high tax burdens and high capital prices. And even today, there's a far greater number of twists than reporting new ones. For example, in Međimurje County, which is known as the County of Developed craftsmanship and in which craftsmanship has really great importance in the total economy in the last 2 years, so 260 craft shops were closed in 2009 and 2010. According to the latest data available at the end of February of this year, as many as 38 thousand natural persons with registered activity, the craftsman had blocked giro-accounts, and their achievements and outstanding debts amounted to 6.7 billion kuna. More than 95% of the account is in a long-term blockade, so for more than 360 days uninterrupted without any chance of survival. And there is clear that another large number of craftsmen will eventually shut down their activities. I will take this opportunity, this debate of mine, to highlight another dimension of the problem of the gray economy. In fact, the largest number of employees in the gray zone are women, but the biggest losers are women again because women are in a far greater percentage of the owner of the craft than the owners of the company. In the total number of trades, 25% are women's owners while the woman owns the company is far less, somewhere between 6% and 7%. For many years, the Croatian Chamber of crafts has persistently pointed to the problem of working on black unregistered craftsmen and thus to the necessity of institutional protection of craftsmen who are registered and who regularly comply with their obligations. Moreover, the Chamber of Commerce itself prepared a proposal for the Law on the Prevention of Work on Black as well as a proposal to amend the Law on the State Inspectorate. And here, finally the government heard their cry and decided to hear it. Unfortunately, at a time when Croatian craftsmanship is literally decimated. And from that point of view, this is actually a very late legislative proposal. It's like giving a dead man sick anointed. Finally, the question is raised why the legislative proposal does not provide for sanctioning those who use and purchase illegal services and products and not only those who deliver them. Because those others who use illegal services and products are also unfair competition for entrepreneurs to whom the services and products have been supplied by registered suppliers. Because they have obtained these services and products at lower prices mostly without taxes, therefore their inputs, their entry costs are lower that means that their market position is more favourable than those entrepreneurs who have paid the regulatory price. So everything in all cannot be challenged by good intentions in this law, but it is clear that it needs to be repaired, that it needs to be done to be an effective tool for achieving the goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71918	Thank you. It's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this wheel. It is now up to the distinguished representative Nenad Szazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71919	Thank you very much. The law is unnecessary and pointless. The proposer, in his explanation, says that first of all, it is necessary to control the operation of service services, lists, mechanical services of various types, hairdressing services, repair services of various household appliances, illegal catering, construction. Mechanical services are done in some crafts, hairdressing services also crafts, repair of household appliances, crafts, construction again crafts, we have the Law on crafts, as stated by the law on crafts in Article 84. He says: a fine of between 2000 and 20,000 kuna will be fined for the violation of a natural person first if he performs a crafts-free, or privilege-free craft, and if you listen carefully to the Secretary of State, occasionally or permanently performs an activity for which it is not registered. The law further says that this will apply a safeguarding measure to confiscation of the property benefit achieved by carrying out the infringements and a safeguard measure to confiscation of the devices, products and equipment to which the offence was committed, so that the fine on the spot of a thousand kuna can still be charged. In the law of craft, it says what will happen to those who provide such services without being registered. A fellow Shuker mentioned tourism as a very interesting area where there are most of these violations, the Law on Tourism Services, the penalty of 10 to 150 thousand kunas, will be punished by one who provides tourist services and does not meet the conditions laid down by this Act and regulations, which means that it is registered, provides services in other forms of tourist offer without the solution of the competent office, which means that it is not registered because there is no solution to the competent office or provides them without meeting the conditions. The tourism service law goes into certain areas, so he says a fine of 3 to 15 thousand kuna will punish a natural person if, for example, he provides tourist services in a rural economy without a solution from the competent Office for the granting of tourist services. This means if tourism is engaged in rural areas without registration. I could now take out 20 laws and in every one of these criminal provisions, so this law that you're proposing is completely unnecessary. Now, why is he pointless? It is meaningless according to a number of its provisions, for example, a legal or natural person who makes it possible to carry out unregistered activities is involved in carrying out unregistered activities, as it appears in practice. I'm too hot on the plug, I'm calling the electrician, because I can't change the plug, but before he comes or when he comes to the door, I have to ask him to show me the craftsman, proof that he's registered, because if I don't do it, I'm a participant in performing unregistered activity, and I'm going to be punished. That's what this law of yours says. As far as advertising is concerned, one who orders, forwards or publishes an ad in the press via television, radio and other media, if not published in that ad company and its headquarters, the OIB, name and last name of the responsible person in that company, will be punished. Let us now imagine one activity, for example, production and placing on the market of non-alcoholic beverages, so Coca-cola must not then be advertised according to this Law on television unless the company, headquarters of the company, OIB, name and last name of the responsible person is published. There is no activity that is not advertised and that according to this meaningless law of yours should not have an OIB and the name of the person responsible in advertising. You can imagine what a commercial would look like for a Coke. Family assistance, an extramarital friend if the extramarital community lasts for at least 3 years, let's assume the living people together in the extramarital community, she's a housewife, and he's an electrician and overburning influencer, but they have no luck in that extramarital community living for 2 years and 10 months, and now the electrician living in an extramarital community cannot replace his partner's socket because Madam Secretary of State will come under the influence of this Act and you will punish him. The pastor or stepdaughter are also excluded but only until the mutual obligation of restraint lasts, and the children in the first line they permanently, for them there is no such obligation of restraint. So he's got a stepdaughter, she's a minor, she's got a job, but he can't come to her as an electrician to fix the plug, even if an electrician is no longer required, a child can if he has his own child, but a stepdaughter can't. Neighbouring help, we're all wondering where you came from right now to these 500 meters, so I was thinking the same thing where you remembered that 500 meters. Then I came to the conclusion that I took a little look at the map of Zagreb, that it was the distance from Humbolt to the Square of Victims of Fascism, so from headquarters of the Customs Administration to the headquarters of the HDZ and for all of them, those carriers are responsible for the station, the occupation that is disappearing, there are also in the sea ports, they're called suitcase carriers, they're slowly extinct, and now they're gone. There's still fewer of them. So the case wouldn't fall under the hit of that law, who's wearing a black suitcase, a black bag regardless of its contents from the center of the customs administration to the centre of HDZ, because the distance from the air line is less than 500 m, so it can be considered friendly. Now this is very interesting. Neighbourhood assistance is allowed unless the work is performed by a legal or natural person registered for that activity. So this is how I got the plug and I got two neighbors living with me in a building less than 500 meters, one being a butcher, another being an electrician. I'm allowed to invite a butcher to fix my socket but I can't have an electrician because he's just registered for that activity. You wrote that in law. Neighbourhood assistance is not allowed for jobs that could be health-threatening. Well, the change in the socket, for example. It can be a health hazard, it can hit a man's electricity, and I don't know what you're even thinking about. So no socket could change, even a butcher shouldn't change it because it's a health hazard. Now, one provision that testifies to the intellectual supremacy of the promoter over the average intelligence of ordinary people, that's Article 12. The proposal seeks to give a definition and explain what it is to prevent accidents or eliminate the consequences of natural and other accidents. So he says it's the work done to prevent or eliminate the consequences of natural or other accidents. So, working to put out the fire, that's the work that puts out the fire. The work to set up the embankment is the work to set up the embankments. Such a circulatory definition should actually be suggested in the logic textbooks that students can see that no definitions can be written when something is defined by itself. I look forward to this law going into another reading and I urge you not to withdraw it unlike everyone else. Continue to pass this law because it is still necessary to make sure that in these dark difficult times people have to laugh, and this law of yours as you have suggested it is just the ideal basis for it. I thought humor was done by satirical writers, theaters, specialized in comedy, but I can see that you took over their role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71920	Thank you very much. First of all, we have an adjudication by the distinguished representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have failed to make me laugh, I will correct your series of incorrect allegations, and above all with good neighbourly help, and I will remind you that you were the Katica for everyone on Brijuni and you yourself have said. What are we going to put that into? You gave the actors the keys to the rooms, cleaned the fort from the water so the performances could be held. Well, for God's sake, let's not talk about morals and on the other hand, we should just go back to last year's vacation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71922	Thank you. And now we have a single replica of Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71923	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Stazic, you've noticed very well things from ordinary life. An older lady told me what it would look like if she broke down and burned down the fuse. So she would call Elektra, and Elektra would say she's doing a more serious job than changing fuses, among other things taking money from consumers, sending it to Zagreb and... as they will. And you, ma'am, call the craftsman, the private man, and deal with him, your fuse. Mrs. Old and persistent would call the private after she got the number in Elektra, and the entrepreneur interrupts the lady and says if she has any friends or neighbors who could do that little thing. Since the lady's got no one within a 500-metre radius, then the privateer decided to send a team and he'd say you know the price. So, going out on the field 50kn, working hour 150kn, addition to danger, so it will come by elevator, it is a dangerous store 85kn, afternoon work 45kn, personal, Croatian personal dish 18kn and dear lady at all VAT 23%. Since the lady probably didn't agree to it considering her retirement, she'd rather stay in the dark than until then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71924	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71925	First of all, I thank my colleague Grubisic for your replication, allowing and giving the opportunity to respond to those whose intellectual cowardice makes it impossible to appear in a replica when they already want to replicate but only because they know that they cannot be answered. Kola Grubisic, Ulysses Theatre in Brijuni is registered for the accommodation of its employees and is not engaged in any illegal activity or unregistered activity. Unregistered activity, dangerous and difficult activity is to carry a bag full of stolen money into the party rooms and keep those bags for a year until it is known that they are there. This is not only an unregistered activity, because the parties are not really registered to keep bags of stolen money in their safe, but when they do so. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71926	Dear MPs did not respond to the replica of the replica content, but you responded to the correction of the incorrect quote. And the correction of the incorrect quote is not an intellectual cowardice greater than the instrument that stands in the Business Office of the Croatian Parliament and should not be called that. You don't have the right to do that with me. And now we have two injuries to the Businessman, first respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71927	Thank you very much. You've actually used a piece of my plate already. According to Article 209, therefore, I did not raise this yellow plate of replicas to give Mr. Stazić a chance to respond to the correction of the incorrect quote, but only to recite in my own name no more. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71928	You just don't understand it or you don't understand it, but it's your thing, I wouldn't be more polymizing with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71929	You don't understand what I said, and it's too complicated for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71930	Dear Representative Grubisic, please don't pollemise with the chairman, you have no right to do so. Second. I'm warning you because you used the instrument of injury to the Businessman to what you had no right and which is not an injury to the Businessman. Indica Grubisic: Why is it not a violation of the Rules of Procedure./... Now we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't. [[Intruder Grubisic: I give you a warning.]] We have a second violation of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of the Sun's Head. [[Upadica Grubisic: You deserve more than a warning.]] Here you go. ... Please, Your Honor, don't do this, in the explanation of correcting an incorrect quote, all of you are using the same methods. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71931	We made a deal. Thank you, colleague Boro, for letting me...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71932	Please, don't de-commit with the other MPs. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71933	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 209, you have already warned. My colleague Stazić referred to my correction of the incorrect quote, and besides that of fellow Stazić, except that you are insulting that I did not expect from you, but my God everything is possible, you are, I did not say that Theatre Ulysses is unregistered but something else, and now I will say it and remind you. You got 5,000 kuna there because you worked as a card for everyone and you left one day before the assembly session ended, and here you get paid. So you're unregistered there, not Theatre Ulysses.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71934	Thank you very much. It's no longer a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's our guest, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71935	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State. Well, anyway, the law is very much needed and welcome, especially in the fight against the gray economy. I will remind myself that the Croatian Chamber of crafts has long sought and warned and simply prayed for one such law to prevent illegal competition or fusch that is present from production to service, and would encourage the registration of all crafts that would participate in an equal competition. Then certainly there would be no illegal competition and it would certainly be a great contribution for those craftsmen who have legally declared their trades and normally, then they could participate as I said equally in that competition. The stories we've been listening to here, and lately in the media, they've been getting through the media a lot, and the goal of these stories is to reduce the value and the essence of these stories is to kind of reduce the value of this law because this law needs to be served as a tool primarily in the fight against the gray economy. Various speculations about harvesting grapes, olives, pork, the power of mother-in-law, sister-in-law, and I don't know who they're all exaggeration to because there's no such ban anywhere, nor is it legally forbidden for friends, neighbors, families to help each other in the already traditional ways that we do, but normally all for free to one reasonable extent and not charge for it. The aim of the law is to contain and destroy this, as I have said, I have no more head, and this is this gray economy that is present and spread throughout the world so it is nothing new in Croatia or unusual for Croatia. She got into a lot of state economies, so unfortunately for us. In particular, it has not been strengthened in transition countries, and apparently in these countries it has a characteristic of a social shock absorber that mitigates the consequences of the negative impact of the transition. According to data recently released by the OECD of 33 countries, Croatia is unfortunately third in its share of grey economy with an estimate of 34.9% of gross social product. After us are Romania and Bulgaria with 37%, Slovenia has a share of the grey economy in the gross social product of 27.4%, and Switzerland has only 8.3% in the gross social product. And in comparison with the members of the European Union, Croatia is among the countries with the highest expansion of the grey economy. For Croatia, the grey economy in this unfair competition means a loss at an annual level of approximately 20 billion kuna. According to the World Bank, somewhere in Croatia is losing about 120 billion kuna in the gray economy. According to the World Bank last year, about 150 thousand people in the field of gray economy worked in Croatia, and I am asking you that we could prevent what this meant for our pension system, which would mean for the employment of people and the decline of the number of unemployed that normally these people could legally apply or that they had to legally apply. The grey economy is generated in many areas, from large companies that blackmail their co-operatives with payment obligations, then many companies and employers force workers to pay minimum wages, and the rest of the work on black is especially present in construction, but in tourism and catering. State institutions should be more efficient in my view. We have about six state institutions that are currently working to prevent this grey economy in the area, and normally they should punish tax evasion far more rigorously. In 2009, the tax administration discovered citizens and companies in an attempt to silence about 1.8 billion kuna and in an attempt to avoid paying taxes worth 350 thousand kuna. All this is normal that it's not enough compared to the size of that grey hole in the economy. And that's why this law is so much needed and welcome and normally those well-intentioned people who want that gray economy to be said to end somehow or to end it, although I don't think it can ever end, it's something that generates in all countries, so Croatia can't completely eradicate it, but it can end if it doesn't have as much moss as it does now, it will welcome this law. Those who want to collect cheap political points, they're going to be looking for these different mother-in-laws, sister-in-laws, I don't know who they're not going to ask for, that through this law they can't change the sockets or I don't know what else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71936	Thank you. Dear Zgrebec's distinguished representative is coming. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It's good that the government has accepted that the law goes into two readings, and I myself have advocated that if we have to pass a law like this, at least let the two readings go through, that we can clarify some things and some solutions that are questionable, which are not clear, to clarify. The worst law in which you can interpret one provision in two, three or more ways, and then you can never, such a law is actually inadmissible then. So I'm saying it's good to go in two readings. But it is also questionable whether it is necessary to pass a special law. Kola Stazic cited several laws here that also regulate this issue, but when the government decided to go with a special law, saying that the incentive for such a law is actually a programme of measures to simplify the business of small-scale operators that was adopted in June 2010 and one of the measures is to curb the grey economy. So that program was passed eight months ago. It took us eight months to get one law that, yet most of us here say that there should be a lot of clarifications, that many of the provisions are discriminatory, some even inexecutable, and the fact is that in those 8 months, a better law could be prepared, without these questionable and non-executive solutions. In order to define the grey zone then the simplest, in the economy the simplest definition would be that these are all the incomes that are unrecorded, hence the revenues that have not been recorded. Why are the states fighting the gray zone? There may be two, maybe three reasons why. The first is that the state collects its claims, therefore taxes, contributions, other taxes stemming from such incomes, but I think it is more important than that that, by combating the gray zone, it should actually protect people who work out of necessity in such a gray zone. We have a situation that we have a significant or certain number of employees who have not been reported. It's not just in crafts, small companies, often you and big companies don't report workers. Here, colleagues have already said, and also colleague Kunst that the minimum wage is reported, is paid in various other ways that are not taxed, which are invisible, it is also a significant gray zone, and which can be controlled. This is done in companies that are registered for their activities. Well, that was also the reason why we changed the State Inspectorate Act that they had greater powers so they could control exactly this situation. Why is the share of the grey economy increasing? Or that kind of income. Well, that is, in times of crisis, more pronounced. We have data here, we don't actually have current data, these are, say several sources of how grey the economy would be as a percentage in Croatia, so most of the research data that was up to 2000 are listed. After 2000, however, the situation changed significantly. We had one period of economic growth, a reduction in the number of employees, unemployed, so that in the last two crisis years, you have a return to employment, an increase in unemployment, and when you have a situation where several tens of thousands of people don't receive your salary regularly, that your pensions are frozen for two years, and that those pensions are minimal, and that still prices are growing, when you have a situation where you currently have 330 thousand unemployed and that the minority gets certain benefits at the Employment Service, i.e. that they have some kind of social, permanent or occasional assistance, these people are necessarily sent to work, even in that gray zone. So sometimes, from that state level, it gets a little drowsy, because that's how you sort of tackle some of the social problems that families have with low incomes. And maybe just to look at a few articles. I think in Article 5 where you talk about what unregistered activities are, and who can do it. So I think that, that this should not be stated at all in such a way, because it should, in order to register the activities you have to pass, they must be supervised by several inspections, in order to open one craft or one company you must have a mass of documentation, so solutions, licenses, crafts, I don't know what all these documents are called, and who performs such activity, they are performed and supervised. So the state inspectorate through the labour inspection, the sanitary inspection, and I don't know what kind of inspections we don't have, which we should register. And then you can't specify in Article 6 that that's why, if someone hires a company that is known to do these jobs, that he has to and verify whether it's registered for that activity or not, or you'll treat it as neighborly or family assistance. Article 7 speaks of advertising of such unregistered activities, i.e. those carrying out unregistered activities, and I think that's where you hit it. Of course, the agency that will advertise such services that it must collect such data, whether it has registered, whether it has a personal number etc., but why would I as a citizen who uses someone's service, if he and his service are advertised, have a company, have to check whether he is registered for that activity or not. In order to have to control whether he has a black or white employee, whether the worker who came has received the full salary, or received minimum wage and salary on his hands. I think that kind of thing can lead to absurdity. And especially now that we have some exceptions here and then we're talking about this family, neighborly help, that can be interpreted in different ways, then you have these comic discussions that we heard today in the debate on this law. So, personally, I think it is possible to control the gray zone in economic activities by existing laws with greater supervision, with the competence of inspectors who should probably be more, who should be paid better to have that and motivation to do their job in the best possible way. Think of it until the second reading whether it is necessary in exactly the way you imagined to conjecture certain provisions of this law or perhaps it really should intervene in some of the existing laws. First of all, here I think of the State Inspectorate Act where often the inspectors complained they didn't have enough authority. With this last change, I think their days are wide-ranging. There is then both the Criminal Code and the Penal Code if there is a need for more rigorous measures to be taken according to those who carry out such unregistered economic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71938	Thank you. We have two replicas. First, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague, Zgrebec, you were also asking questions in your debate about whether we needed this law at all, so you referred to the discussion of fellow Stazic, who was very theatricalally reading to us the provisions of the Law on crafts, and I don't know which other law where there is an obstacle to sanctions, but the law needs to be read well. And then the law in Article 2 says, "The provisions of this law do not apply to carrying out unregistered activities sanctioned by special laws." Therefore, where these unregistered activities are sanctioned by a special law, this law will not apply, but the law applies to an entire unprotected field of black work which has not been sanctioned so far to allow for the conduct of inspectorates. And unlike you, because I saw through your discussion that you had read the law, many of your colleagues discussed this morning very passionately, mentioned something, and that the law had not read at all, so there were observations about work for their own needs and related relations and objected that there was no extramarital mate in the family circle, and he writes here, and that there was no blood relation numbered according to the Law of Inheritance. And that’s all well in Article 10, so when the debate comes first, the law needs to be read.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71940	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71941	You say in the Law of Trade that this applies except for unregistered activities. However, it is listed here when it is an unregistered activity, but who should control it? That's why I'm saying, maybe another intervention in the State Inspectorate Act is needed, and then maybe you don't need this law. Because I'm not going as a citizen to control whether someone had a registered activity or not, so there are state institutions, inspections that need to control whether anyone has a registered activity. He can't even get a registration unless he has all the permits just to carry out such an activity. And what you're saying is whether or not someone read the law about it. Everyone's responsible for their part of the job that works in one way or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71942	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71943	Thank you very much. My colleague Zgrebec this law is certainly welcome and I think all those who say he is not welcome are malicious. He is particularly welcome because he aims to curb illegal competition from registered activities. This law has also been requested by the Croatian Chamber of crafts for several years. So that law didn't fall out of the sky and nobody knew anything about it. And as for the area of the gray economy which is normal and which, and which, and this law, in part, tries to curb that gray economy. Normally, he won't be able to do much of anything like the existing laws can't do anything, as even the existing inspection services can't do much to prevent workers from being paid off in some way, and that's exactly the part where workers on minimum wage apply, and basically there's a pay for them something more. And we all know that the state is wrong and that the worker is wrong by it, etc. I've talked to your late president, then Prime Minister, about the subject myself several times and just asked if you have any mechanisms, instruments, laws, I don't know what to do about how to just end it. Unfortunately, not a worker as you know it will not report it and you know for what reason he will not report it, the inspector will certainly not tell him when he comes into the company, the worker will not tell him the same thing. And that's one zone that I also trust when I find a solution to protect my patent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71944	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71945	My colleague Kunst, I didn't say the law was welcome or not welcome. I'm just saying that the law has some questionable solutions and that it's precisely good not to bring it into an emergency procedure. And when you talk about unfair competition, you know what the biggest unfair competition is? When they don't pay your bills. Companies that do not pay bills, which do not pay salaries, which do not pay taxes and contributions, which have the advantage that some can delay paying taxes and contributions on a cost-effective basis, and others cannot. It's your biggest unfair competition. When someone has to take credit to pay their debts, taxes, and contributions precisely because someone else his believer did not pay him, the debtor did not pay. So it's a broad topic when we talk about loyal or unfair competition. But destroying the gray economy as well as corruption will never end. And many countries are struggling with both the gray economy and corruption, and I think it's a good thing we opened this topic, to discuss it. Whether this particular law is necessary, is it possible to intervene in some existing laws in order to solve at least part or most of this problem, it is necessary to conduct a debate and we are running it here today. And I don't want to say that it's a priori bad or good. I think it's possible to solve it another way. And by agreeing to go into two readings, the government is inclined to discuss here and to crystallize through this debate some solutions that may be different from what is now in this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71946	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's your honor, Mr. Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, namely here, it has already been spent a long time discussing this bill and a lot of it has been said, of course I will not be able to avoid repeating some things myself because it is clear from one side the intensity of the Law which is absolutely positive, justified, but it is clear that I model and forms of solving the problem of the gray economy are very questionable. In fact, the grey economy is not only a problem in the Republic of Croatia, we know that the problem and developed countries of the European Union, even I would say where the more developed economy is, the shape of the gray economy is more developed and the fight against the gray economy itself. However, when it comes to the Republic of Croatia, the fact is that we have a crisis which is primarily the Government but all those who were previously in the government have accepted it very late and accepted it without saying that certain activities have been put into effect very late and that Croatia is, by some standards, the only country in this area still in crisis. When we talk about the gray economy and when we talk about the law that needs to be resolved, then it can certainly be said that this Law will not solve it, in some of its details it may weaken certain spheres but in some of its details it may even worsen certain economic branches or certain movements in the economy. I repeat I can believe that this law has one legitimate goal but I repeat it definitely in some of its models shoots into blanks. In some of our specifics that we talked about on previous committees, I believe on all committees but on the Committee on Development and Reconstruction on which I participated we pointed out that the Law is very unarranged, that it will in any case not prevent those real players who make real profits and make the effects of working in black, that they continue to work in such an illegal way. On the other hand, this bill is very negatively directed towards, as I say, very harmless cases of work or better said help that takes place at the level of these ordinary citizens, those everyday events that may occur there. That's what I've been talking about more than once, it's hard not to do it again. The fact is that almost all public reactions if we look at, in the media, in the press, that almost all public reactions to this Law are primarily negative, so there are certain details, articles, items of this Law that are really problematic. People are least surprised by the definition of some of the things relating to the performance of certain tasks, in particular Article 10, which defines family and neighbourly assistance, not to repeat the particulars. It is often in the debate, including in the presentation of the State Secretary, and even today here in the interpretation of this Law, it is indicated that, for example, friendly assistance is not covered by this law, but only an economic activity which, as we say, is not reported as an activity. It is pointed out that friendly help is something that is common, which can exist, etc. But on the other hand, if you go into extreme detail in defining what a family is, as you said on the Committee, the first suggestion was to talk about relatives, so that to insisting on the Ministry of the Family it was changed and reduced to family and then it was marked there who was all family. So when you go into such detailing, and then detailing 500 meters, etc., which caused a whole series of reactions, then it's strange that you didn't define that category of friendly assistance in a certain way, so she's not mentioned anywhere in the law and I'm surprised when I hear an explanation that it's quite normal it's quite allowed etc. Nowhere a friend is mentioned in this law, which means that it can't exist, nor, as an exception, we're talking about exceptions, exceptions being made for family, exceptions being made for neighbors. Here we heard now, what surprised me, here we heard at the very beginning when it was spoken on behalf of the Club, or individual clubs, very uncomfortable characteristics of these exhibitions, so it was said for example for a representative of the club that he had a comedy exposure. Listen to this Law definitely in some of its details acts comedyically, first of all in these articles that I was talking about. Then it is said that this Law is Caricated and Banalised in some of the club representatives' presentations, forgive me but this Law really speaks cartoonally and banally of certain things and I would say that in some of its articles this Law banishes the very fight against the gray economy or work on black. A citizen from my Slavonia told me today, he says we're talking about working on black, we're talking about a gray economy, so if we stay within those monochromatic colors, it turns out that only employers are white. And what if black workers, as they say, blacked out in front of their eyes because of unpaid salaries by these employers, and then they went into the gray economy to survive, who's going to protect those people who don't get paid and do their job. Either they're underpaid, or with a certain delay it seems so, etc. So, that segment of course is not mentioned here, but it mentions all of the other things. And then it's no wonder when you look at these public reactions. So let's say here's a business advisor says, for everyone who performs the work in the apartment and lives beyond 500 meters, an exception will be made when we have a mobile plumber. So you see what these situations lead to when in law some things are really banalized. Or Minister Popioac, in his explanation, says that we all misconstructed what the government proposed by this law, so of course this 500 m is a conditional category and says no hobby of vineyards or a thousand or two chocolates is an economic category and this law does not deal with it. But let's say that if someone had a vineyard of 10 acres, there's no help in friendly, neighborly, etc. So again one numerical category. So a thousand or two thousand chocolates aren't working on black, above that it is. What am I saying? I mean, he's obviously been wandering around and he's still wandering around in some of the findings. But what surprised me most, here's an article that says the state has legalized the work on black. Writers work without any signed contract. The 15 thousand censusors who are engaged in the 2011 census have no signed work contract or any work contract, so they won't even have it, they don't even know how they're going to receive compensation for what they're going to do. Legal experts warn that somewhere it should be recorded what they do, how they work, how they will be paid and that they should be paid and given to the state from about 50% to 60% of the amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71948	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71949	Therefore, the state sometimes wanders, and apparently this law has gone astray. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71950	We have one replica of Honorable representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71951	Comrade Heffer, here you have, like other colleagues, given these special examples of various activities that can be categorized as work on black under this law. So I wonder what about hundreds of teachers and teachers who give instruction to students, not to their students because it's forbidden by law, but to other students in their homes. And it's known that the supplemental hour is, say, a ten-euro language watch. Is this the same gray economy or can these underpaid teachers not give instructions? Besides, I wonder who's gonna check it out? Well, our inspection is for illegal construction, so it hasn't been settled in years. Therefore, this law will remain a dead letter on paper, it's a pure pre-election sort of trick as we fight against working on black. And so inspection is a disaster in this country and when really something somewhere needs to react to the inspection. You can complain, you can wait for years and none of that, so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71952	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71953	Thank you very much. You mentioned only one example where it is unclear what work is on black or whether it will be sanctioned. I'd say given the level of salaries that teachers and teachers have, if they're even cut off, or threatened, then there's gonna be an even bigger problem. There's a preparation for the state's graduation in progress, and I know that there's an increased need for instruction. Listen, it's just one detail. My Slavons say it's a tail bath here there's farmers know that the tail has to be bathed, that it's a pig's knee that's part of the jobs that have to be done. Some are traditions, some are not. So there's a whole series of such things that this law simply doesn't make clear which category they belong to. So this law is very, very unspeakable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71954	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate. It's time for the guest of honor, Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71955	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. This topic is too serious to caricate and banalize because the gray economy is an evil that we are not and we will never end it but which shows that it is still too high and therefore it needs to be contained. I believe that the promoters had a good intention exactly how to reduce this grey economy by the more the data shows and the World Bank is moving in Croatia somewhere around 35%. Some economists and some institutions agree less or more on that percentage, but in any case it is higher if the GDP is smaller and vice versa if the press is tax and in the press is higher then the percentage of the grey economy is higher. Of course, the reasons are certainly in the first row of high taxes and contributions, of course, by those other donations, and then resulting in an escape in the field of the gray economy. Another reason is the inability to realise and open registered activities for various reasons from bureaucratic to slow-run HITRO from which we expected a lot. Of course, one of the reasons is both the fall and the low level of the entrepreneurial climate, and all the way to inadequate supervision that will certainly not be improved by the adoption of these and these laws because, for quality and effective supervision, we still have to carry out, let's say, rigorous laws need quality, capable of corruption and sustainable supervision. Here I have had the opportunity to read in the very part of this explanation in order to go with the proposal to pass the Law on the ban on the conduct of unregistered activities. It's just one segment of the gray economy. We have both illegal and unreported and informal and some are far more difficult and dangerous than these unregistered activities. Personally, I met with this problem 40 years ago and a few years ago, and for 25 years, I worked with both legal and illegal in self-control. I know the seriousness of the problem, I know the weight of the problem and the situation that she's carrying. From that angle, it's a good thing we went into another reading. It might be better if we had united all of this in some way and included all these spheres of the gray economy together, and I think I would personally be most fortunate if we had decided on guidelines because guidelines would be quite enough to guide us through every other segment of legislation simply to take those measures that are possible to reduce this. I will now try to tell you only one example. Here's the thing about unregistered activities, we've brought in one provision, or there's one provision that's more specifically proposed, that the advertisers will be sanctioned. So now look, when someone advertises sharp knives or repairs umbrellas that citizens need, then the advertiser will be sanctioned, and if any of the macro ads sexual services he won't be sanctioned or the advertiser won't be sanctioned because it's not prescribed anywhere, and that could compromise maybe the income side of any journalistic magma or mogul any way you want. So when it comes to the gray economy, it seems to me that I should make one broader, or to cover one wider area and cover everything that can be treated as, let me say evil. In the material I found where you suggested, I'll quote: the gray economy is simply a strategy to increase net personal income to the burden of the community as a whole. This is the proposal's bet. However, it would be right: in this country, the grey economy from prostitution to unregistered activity is a strategy of mere survival that is not yet on the community's burden on the whole. She could be, but she's not yet. So when we talk about both illegal and unreported and informal, it is also up to this illegal to ask ourselves how, in a hidden area of the grey economy, hard to live example for a prostitute, do they have anything to eat today, how much bread they have and do we not think that they are happy Croats with their illegal or unregistered activities without pension, without health, without union, exposed to the will of pimps and desires of consumers. And to make things worse, there's more of them because we're less and less giving them a chance not to be. It is almost identical with performing, say, unregistered activities. We really think that those who have, or who are in the area of unregistered activities, do we really think that they enjoy being unregistered, that they are in the twilight zone, that they are left at the mercy and mercy of all, and even those who look forward to this law being passed, that they are warmly thrown into these new repression challenges. In the very light of this law, it states that no additional means are needed for the adoption and implementation of this law. Personally, I am deeply convinced, for the quality and effective control of the implementation of this or such rigorous law, they need quality, capable, of corruption by a resilient supervisor. And we have to secure the funds because without it, or when we will only experience that corruption and crime will be generated. As for some concepts of friendly, family, neighborhood assistance to those 500 meters, etc., it would be good not to engage. It would be good if we didn't touch family or friendship or good neighbourly relationships. That is also what I propose as regards the criteria for sanctioning unregistered activities. I think that... the delivery of products and services with which payment and income is to be paid. [[You don't understand.]] And at no cost should we sanction advertisers and users because it's the only source of information to the supervisory authorities. In my view, therefore, this law is not good for society either because we are killing in a way and friendship and family and neighborly or friendly relations. It's not good for the state because it's not going to increase revenue in the budget, it's going to shrink, we're not going to have any evidence. And thirdly, it's not good for the inspectorate because we've given him all those opportunities that give him information based on what he can in some way sanction and bring a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71956	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Honorable representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Ronko, you yourself mentioned your long-standing experience in the area above all tax and tax professions. Well, I'd just like to come back to what I just read. So a series of censusors, among other things, and the announcement of the adoption of this law, arises and raises the question of what is going to happen to them, and here for two weeks, the census of the population is going to take place, because really no contract or anything has been signed, and they simply don't know how they're going to be paid, they're being told that it's going to be paid by hand, in cash, how it's going to be, or whether it's going to be going to be, or whether it's going to be, or whether it's going to be, to account for some travel costs or something like that. Well, among other things, it's interesting to say this thing that says that they're not employed, but they are because everyone at the Employment Office will be checked out for the duration of the census. So they are employed, they will reduce what a fellow unemployment rate says, Croatia will have about 15,000 fewer unemployed in a hurry, and I say no contracts, no document has been signed. In your expert opinion, I assume that you have a tax problem or not, in which way this can be considered possibly by working on a black, or a gray economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71958	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71959	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Heffer, this is, if I may so notice a tiny problem, the problem is comprehensive, the problem involves far, far more than now this censusing or hairstyle as it tries to say it in public. So we have to go to the comprehensiveness of the problem, the comprehensiveness of the problems of the gray economy, and everything that it carries to itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71960	Thank you. And we're moving on with an individual discussion. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71961	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary. Here I will support the Law prohibiting the conduct of unregistered activities, but also sending them to another reading. Controls of criminal measures to carry out certain activities, which are not registered, are prescribed in existing material regulations, however, the exercise of a large number of activities is not regulated by a specific material regulation, so many other interests are not regulated by a special material regulation, so that inspection services do not have legal capacity to inspection in the non-registered exercise of such activities. Here is the legal gap, the adoption of such a law that would be subject to subsidiarity in all cases where banning and preventing unregistered activities is not regulated by a special material regulation, I believe it is really necessary. Here this law means reducing the unfair match created between those economic operators who have registered their activities and who pay taxes and those who are not registered, who do not pay taxes and thus do not participate in filling the state budget, and often receive certain types of assistance from that budget. This is because of the inability to regulate all economic activities by special material regulations, many legal systems in the European Union have passed such or similar laws, so that this one in Croatia is not a Croatian invention. I would refer to the provision of Article 11, meaning paragraph 1 of this legislative proposal, and say that the intensity of the draft law working group was to prescribe exceptions when certain activities are not considered unregistered. Among other things, an exception was proposed in the form of a neighbourly assistance which we have heard here today, as a matter of tradition, but with cumulative limitations, which should have been the only condition defined in paragraph 1. It means that there is no contract, that work is done without payment or other material benefit, that work is not performed regularly, that work is not performed by a legal or natural person registered for that activity, and that work is not performed in response to the published ad. Holding that these cumulative conditions are not sufficient is also introduced and this additional 500 meters condition, I personally hold that this should be formulated differently, so I also support this reference to another reading. And I will end my debate here with the title of one Zadar portal, titled on one Zadar portal today, that tourists mean more and more coming, stay longer and spend less. The fact is that due to many government measures, a significant increase in the number of guests' arrivals in Croatia, the number of overnight stays increased, but also the fact that tourism revenues do not grow with this dynamic. I believe that one part of the gray market and not very small, which Mr. Shucker spoke of on behalf of the club, is also an unregistered activity in tourism, so in service activities, for example. the tenants, etc., means the inspector only comes to those who have registered activity. And here is the season's preparations, so let this proposal be a contribution to serious preparation, and protect those who are registered, but also a message to those who are not registered. And that's why I'm going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71962	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go. No, I don't. Okay. Then it's time for the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71963	Thank you very much, Vice President, Secretary of State. So here's if we look at these two goals, when we're talking about disabling unregistered activities, or freeing from unfair competition, of course we're wondering who wouldn't accept it. But we heard a lot of ambiguity today, a lot of inaccuracy, starting with Article 5, 10, 11, 14, and no offense, I would repeat there is a lot of tragedy. And not colleagues and colleagues this banalizing neither the subject nor the law. We also see that the promoter is looking for a greater responsibility, looking for the culprits wider, and then among the participants are also providers and service providers, as well as advertisers. I'm as aware as all of us here that the gray economy is a big problem, everyday life is money on our hands, and without account, but the share of the gray economy is estimated at over 30 to 35% of GDP, but there is a very important share because of the things and also because of the structural funds. We are also aware that this is the biggest improvement in Croatia's economy, and in the crisis, there is growing excitement, of course, that by increasing the economy, i.e. by increasing standards, this grey economy could be prevented in some ways. However, it is also a fact that a part of the citizens without it could not function at all. At the same time, unregistered work reduces the possibility of employment, so we rotate around. That is why it is important to address, or focus on the cause of the gray economy, not the consequences of what this law is and what it says. Today we mentioned very often craftsmen, here during 2010 continued negative trends in crafts, so last year more crafts were closed, than it was open, and the number of craftsmen also decreased, so right now, here are some 90,000 615 crafts currently active, and a total of 210, or 211 thousand employees. The craftsmen are also naturally affected by the unregistered performance of the activity, i.e. the high representation of the gray economy. And of course it's not fair for craftsmen who pay all their obligations and taxes to have examples of some unemployed craftsman who gets money from the labour market, it's possible that the user and social assistance, and of course gets other accessories and works on black. So, of course, in this sense, we have to fight the gray economy, but by this law, I hold these proposals that we cannot fight. Tax redistributions can relieve work, i.e. they would disburse many, and in this way these from the gray zone, or grey economies would be introduced into the whole system because we know how grey the economy is that it is approximately 16% of the total economy. This morning we heard that the largest percentage of this is, of course, tourism in catering and tourism. However, I wonder, as many do, whether the laws that have already been passed are respected. Where are the inspections, where are the inspectors? Are they doing inspections? But in this way, only by repressive measures cannot be solved. If it wouldn't be better to give everyone a chance, someone said give everyone a chance to buy a bike, and then when he makes Mercedes, give him a tax. The draft law did not define whether unregistered work would be taxed as a percentage or whether cleaning women, hairdressers, masters, etc. would pay the flat-rate amount to the state. Here I found information for the Slovenians, when working up to 60 hours of maximum income of 6 thousand euros is taxed at 29 - 5%, which means that 8.5% is lower than a permanent employee's tax. So we have a variety of examples. Now I'd like to give a few examples of how systems support the gray economy. For example, a professor was mentioned earlier without permanent employment. This is typical of working on black, of course, a typical example of the gray economy that, according to the World Bank's data, goes to about 163 million euros, or 120 billion kuna. And now that you look at at least a quarter of that amount if you go into legal costs, then you could open about 100,000 jobs in the industry if you see that one place needs 40,000 euros. However, if so, if they were in the system, of course, that watch that is required today would surely have to be increased by an hour of lesson. Thus, they say that they are better able to break in part - time in school and work on the sidelines because of the instructions, unfortunately, they are found in today’s day. And why? That's why you're running away from high tax burdens again, and that's exactly the problem. Or another example, a woman who worked for 15 years in a company that was ruined because of privatisation and conversion, and she stayed on the labour market. After that, she was employed in private, exploited, yet no one protected her. She was at the minimal. At the same time her son started, actually went to study, had to pay rent in another town. So this woman came home and sewed. No one protected her. So she manages, it's the only way she can keep herself. She doesn't owe anyone. Because she lost, her company lost by converting and privatizing her, and she's out of a job. She did it this way. So I repeat again, let's give people a chance to earn their first bike, and let's tax them after they earn Mercedes. This actually refers to these craftsmen that we have heard about so often today. So, how to be if we look at the title of this law ourselves, we ask ourselves how to be against the Law on Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity. But this is just a title, one shirt without, it's empty and it's not serious. So I think we should focus on the cause, not the consequences. Because essentially the destimulation is a burden of work, a high labour price, and that's the focus of the problem. We mentioned craftsmen – craftsmen cannot endure and must close and go to the gray economy. The craftsman is responsible with all his assets. And when you look at companies only with that initial establishment capital. This law is fortunate to go into further reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71964	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Ivo Jelusic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And then Davorko Vidovic too. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Well, then it's up to the Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71965	Thank you very much. The black-and-white world, the gray zone, is today the theme of this legislative proposal, which is slightly unprovoked or implemented to a very small extent. Namely, the gray zone as I have already said once in a debate with the present Mr. Shucker, the grey zone of the economy is in some sense an exit or rescue for many in a situation where as it is said again here on the burden or on the back, excuse me, the craftsmen have taken down the burden of strong obligations and burdens, and then training inspection strictness and these tiny elements that often inspections train strictness. It's allowed, it's true that you're allowed to steal. Today I was talking about a million tons of stone that went missing. And this was determined by an inspection of mine or mine inspection. Furthermore, 27 thousand tons of grain have disappeared or whatever wheat you want from Đakovština. You don't know where it's gone until today. It's true that a Turkish ship crashed into an island with grain about a year ago as a result of a storm somewhere near Drvenik or something. There was a wheat of unknown origin on it. But if you call the godmothers, your friends at the exercise, the pig's car, the basket harvesting of vineyards, then it's a gray zone, a violation that's punishable in monetary terms. When I spoke to the minister then I said that all the happiness that exists in this situation of expensive state and money being poured out of the state's cash register into private pockets and party accounts through the classic money laundering very often, Croatia is the largest washing machine of money in Europe and perhaps even in the world, then it is good that there is a gray zone that does not leave the money there where I would have talked to private people in pockets or in party accounts. Point 12 or paragraph 12 of this Act states that performing the necessary work to prevent accidents does not constitute an offence, so I wonder when there is a natural or other accident, here is hay dry, the rain is being prepared, you must pick it up yourself or call someone from the village or other village to help pick up that hay. You're not allowed under this law if it's more than 500 meters away. Furthermore, it's also about a relative relationship, so, relatives who can help, and here's my daughter-in-law's father-in-law isn't related to me, but he's not my best cousin, but he's my best man, and he's not supposed to help me, either, or like an old lady said the fuser is a burnt-out fuse and the replacement has to come 400 kuna with VAT because no one else can, Elektra won't, the privateer is looking for 400 kuna and there's no one closer than 500 meters that he knows the expert so he doesn't put himself in danger of getting killed by God to replace the fuse, to change it. This is really how drastic examples are, it would be said, both funny and strange that a serious legal proposal should be taken seriously to deal with such matters. To make this become something that will save the country from saying, let's go to debt slavery or get rid of crime and corruption, and on the other side 10ths and 100 million kunas are leaving the Building Fund, not to mention painting tunnels and all the other malversions that are being done and for which daily media are publishing what's going on, it can't even count, and this time I have time and desire to pick it up. What is achieved by this legal proposal? Whether or not this legal proposal would slightly destroy our ordinary right, it is unwritten. What is a request in our dictionary and ours, it will be no more or it will be punishable. A harvest of vineyards, a friend told me thank God that I got rid of you I don't have to go to harvest anymore because I live 550 meters from you and the law has ordered me not to help you pick up, and so every year you bother me to come to your harvest, so we'll give up that kind of friendship, solidarity. I'm slaughtering houses for butchers. And this advertising that Mr. Shuker is talking about as well by the way, by the way, has penalties for advertisers who write "Kill by House" and they will pay the fine and that informative house that puts on the ad as a local television or local radio, and they will also be fined by a cash amount of 15 thousand and further depending on the provisions of this bill. So, as the club president has already said, Buric, for the HDSSB Club, this legal proposal in the first reading is not acceptable and I am afraid that the very purpose of this legislative proposal is to impose on those who are most in need of such a small help starting from household to their own small property, it is not really such a legal proposal, and no other reading will achieve the objective of preventing the gray economy until much bigger holes are prevented from which girls write money on all sides and about which they write our newspaper daily, then the electronic media and everyone else who comes out daily. Both personally and as the HDSSB Club, we cannot be in favour of this and this Legislative Proposal, because until the black economy is prevented and largely state-owned, until the grey economy in this form helps solidarity, good neighbourly relations, traditions and ordinary rights poses no danger to this country nor contributes to any strong possibility of filling the state budget and the state register with the means to make such legal provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71966	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs. Gyurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71967	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Secretary of State. In fact, Mr. Grubisic, I'm going to refer to Article 214 in that section that says that you're belittling other than the president and parliamentary representatives, this time me. I live in this Croatia, I am proud of it, this is my country and country of every honest Croat and you can't say that this Croatia is the biggest money laundering machine in Europe. This is how you humiliate Croatia and every honest Croat here, and I have used my right to appeal to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71968	Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71969	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear State Secretary. In my humble opinion, there are important obstacles to the adoption of this law, and the only positive thing I could assess is the motion that it is referred to a second reading, that an emergency procedure be lifted. I must say that this law has not passed the Economic and Social Council, and it is important that the Economic and Social Council is a significant instance, therefore, of formalised social dialogue in the Republic of Croatia and called on the institution to fight the gray economy, i.e. to prevent corruption from solving matters in that lobby. So, of course, I think that the Economic and Social Council that started working again should discuss this law and the social partners must contribute to the adoption of this law. In my opinion, given the amount of polemics that have developed in this assembly to a contrary position, it would be better if this law were to bear the name of a bill on illicit unregistered activity, I think that it would be easier to agree at that time, that there would be fewer articles, that there would be less material to argue about, and we know that everything else is already forbidden under other laws. According to the comments of independent Croatian trade unions that I agree with, the proposed name of the law is another indicator of the absurdity of our legislation. In accordance with applicable laws, unregistered activity must not be carried out. The proposal also sets out notor facts such as the definition of activities considered to be carrying out unregistered activities. The relevant regulations provide for assumptions that need to be fulfilled in order for a particular legal or natural person to deal with certain matters. And this is governed by the Law on Commercial Society, the Law on crafts, the Law on Attorneyship and other laws. Furthermore, here the proposer of the law on the reasons for which this law is adopted gives a flat-rate assessment based on scientific methods on which the profession cannot be agreed, which are not an indicator of the share of the grey economy in the total economy. However, there is no need to be an expert in order to know that accurate data on the occurrence of the gray economy are impossible to have. If this were possible, there would be no unregistered activity but would have gone into registered activities, and for such activity, the rule of law has mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the rules. Of course, this isn't the law, and we can all agree on curbing the gray economy. This is the law on curbing the smallest part of the gray economy. This law is a modest scope and applies primarily to those who survive the sale of personal work and skills and maintain their family, and the system is too expensive for them to survive with any State or system has imposed restrictions on them. Unfortunately, great players who certainly produce the gray economy remain intact by this law. All those who don't pay for their work, and we know he has it, he's got unpaid work to do, this law doesn't touch them. The payment of half pays legally and half solarly, I mean solar hunting in the sun, this law remains intact, the non-reporting of workers by this law remains intact. So the struggle of the gray economy cannot be won through this law. It can be a contribution to curbing a small part of the gray economy and that of the lowest rank. However, great players must play with other mechanisms against other players. In fact, we need an effective inspection and, apart from an effective inspection, we need to give her a mandate to work well and to create assumptions that it works well. These are not only humane assumptions for inspection there are also assumptions that the laws allow records to be seen and that there are even records of the work done that the inspection can act more effectively. Therefore, categories of big players do not touch this law and it is very difficult to expect that this law may contribute to the fight against the gray economy in 5%. But this must be the law for persecuting builders, pyres, ceramics, plumbers, hairdressers, pedicures, masseuses, translators, maids, house maids because only those under this law on impact. Because I don't want to talk at all about the stretching concepts of good neighborly help, family assistance. These are things we can talk about. I'm interested in the achievements of this law. Of course, Croatia is a crafts chamber as an initiator for this law to be passed interested in passing such a law. For what reason? There's also a fight against the gray economy, but the main reason is to fight unfair competition. What happened? The state is too expensive, the crisis is, we can't deny it isn't. A large number of craft owners closed the turns and still lives. They didn't sign up for the welfare center. What do they live on? Well, they live off their own work. How they work, so they work in houses. ... Yeah, you can't imagine what I could do with saving my life. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And of course, we have fewer registered crafts, though it's a reduced market but the hairstyle needs are the same you know, people live on. But the traffic of those registered craftsmen doesn't grow, they continue to fall, and work takes place. And I understand their motivation and I find it justified, but what you should say is that motivation for this kind of cash-paying work is not one-sided, it's not just the motivation of the one who provides the service. It's the motivation of the one receiving the service. We have at a time of crisis two parties who are interested in cash payment. Now, that can't be solved by law, it can't be solved overnight. It is certain that this law cannot fully resolve it, therefore it cannot resolve this two-sided motivation for cash payment, and of course all systems in the state remain suspended by certain means, all social systems and, of course, the situation as such is unsustainable, but I do not think that this situation can be corrected by this law which I have said is strictly limited range. Of course, I also have an objection to something that I think went into the law upside down, that someone wanted to define the neighborhood at 500 meters away. That can't be defined. So the dimension of the neighborhood, especially the good neighborhood, is unlimited, and you can say that somewhere it's 500 meters too far for a neighbor, and it's definitely too close. Therefore, 500 meters is no measure whatsoever. We intended that you did not say that this goes in two readings to suggest deleting that item in the article of the law, so we suggest that in preparation for the second reading you simply delete that measure, because it definitely doesn't prove anything and it doesn't make any sense. That's where I'm gonna stop with the individual, so I'm gonna go on short in the closing word in front of the HNS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71970	Thank you. One correction, Madam Representative Gyurjka Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71971	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Madam Secretary of State. My colleague Hrelj, I also understand your intensity when you state entirely false allegations, namely you collect votes and then you mention builders, hairdressers and so on, and that's incorrect. This law has one intensities, which is preventing the gray economy and, of course, it's good to go to another reading because there's a misunderstanding to be made. And it's another incorrect allegation, don't constantly base yourself and talk about it's not an intensity, and that's how you express yourself because if you let me just tell you, you have to agree, rent at sea, let's say, in Istria, Italy, and the Ministry of Tourism did an excellent experiment, and it came and looked at Italian full of guests. They were his cousins. When they closed it, they came next year, they asked him if you'd do it in Italy, he said never, I wouldn't think of it. You see, the intensity of this law is that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71972	Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71973	Among other things, you say that solar pay is being encouraged, but what worries me is that the spirit of this law undermines the value of volunteer work, which is what the spirit of this law wants to prevent what we called good neighbourly assistance until yesterday, taking care of the older neighbours, the powerless people, and sometimes we rarely organized humanitarian initiatives where we went as neighbours to help families of the weaker material status because we collected money and construction material, so we built them sanitary facilities, so we helped them to keep their kitchen 2 squares higher, i.e. that children do not live in moisture and in the greatest possible misery. As of today, it will be exposed almost as a crime, so we are trying to destroy social ties between people, and is that something that you as a representative in the Croatian Parliament could support?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71974	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71975	Dear fellow Beus, of course, that today we live in another time and everything goes forward and I understand that the time you're talking about has built this country and that it's part of our tradition, the tradition of our people that we're helping each other and that in such a way we're raising our own personal standards to one height that's right because there's never been enough money to do anything in this country that would have been done and never lived so well, and people have always worked more objectively on their salaries and their incomes. And this very social dimension is to help not only within the family but within friends, neighbors, etc. and it's a kind of volunteer work, a safe work on the well-being of this society because eventually all these values remain here. Of course, here we're talking about the second dimension of everything and that's what the country is short for. I think that certainly in the process of doing another reading of this law and of this traditional dimension, that solidarity among people should also be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71976	Five minutes of debate. Same club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71977	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So that we in the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People just criticize... We can freely tell you that there are mechanisms that need to be systematically introduced to gradually raise the effectiveness of the fight against the gray labour market. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] We've had some mechanisms already, we've had to pay a flat tax for some activities that aren't so attractive, which were deficiting etc. And it worked perfectly. We have a picture of the Belgian voucher system in front of us. If this system were applied to our individual housing building, then in our housing loans, at least part of the work would not be given cash, but would be given a voucher in which the tax is already in place, and then the safety to make it all legal is much greater. But it was also the investor's safety to have on the other hand a well-known performer who was officially paid was much higher. There wouldn't be, we'd have a lot less situation, we'd do business and hold the water until the masters left. Of course, there is no need to be afraid that craftsmen will become rich if we raise them to the level above which they become VAT bonds. There's no need to be afraid that they'll be too rich. It's to be controlled the other way. Well, of course, if someone's property is disproportionate to what pays as a salary, it means there's hidden money, there's cash paid, but that means system efficiency, it's not a question of one law, it's a question of the overall efficiency of the system. Of course, my colleague Sumrak says the Italians asked. No, we have Slovenians who betray and the system is completely out of control. So all their relatives come to their homes, so we have this in Barbara as much as you want, but this law doesn't tang it, it just doesn't bind to such situations, it just doesn't work this out. Of course, it is also necessary to develop a public relations strategy for all inspection bodies in order to systematically promote tax culture, that it is not a harrassor, but that it is something to perform the social functions and social functions of a country. Thus, such a culture should also be promoted awareness of the need to combat the gray economy, as well as of the education and sensitisation of citizens on the impact of the gray economy on their standard and level of rights and services provided by the state through the state budget. So this is not a one-way street and this problem cannot be solved by one law, so I believe that without a good public debate, without consulting the social partners of the Croatian People's Party club and the Croatian party of pensioners this law cannot be supported in the first reading, but we are satisfied with the fact that the promoter has proposed two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71978	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Tihana Kraljić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71979	Thank you to the most beautiful vice president of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here I have listened very carefully and recorded everything that's been said here today in this assembly. Here I must say in front of the promoter and holder of the laws of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, that in this procedure we may even have been too zealous and listened to all those who wanted to contribute to this law being implemented. I have to say, I'm glad we're going to another reading, so for reasons, because when I've been listening to this debate all day today, it really turns out that we should try to find a different solution and define certain areas. But, unfortunately, I have to say from everything I've written today, that I haven't written down a single solution, but here I believe that as well as the Ministry and all those who have worked on this bill's proposal, we will try to find a solution. Because I repeat again, the fundamental and fundamental objective of adopting this law is to suppress unregistered activity, unfair competition for entrepreneurs, meaning to all those who today in the Republic of Croatia fully free, uninterruptedly carry out their activities, advertise, charge, without registering in a craft register or in any other relevant register. Help neighborly, friendly, any kind of help. Here I am truly sorry, and it is likely that in our great desire to be operational, that it can be implemented, in this great desire we may have created through these exceptions one confusion, one confusion, and I believe when we resolve it in the next reading, that a legal proposal will come before you that you will then be able to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71980	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71981	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Unregistered Activity. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 731. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the proposal for the conclusion of the HDZ and HSS and HNS and HSU clubs to discuss this legislative proposal in two readings. On the basis of the conclusions adopted, I am voting on the following conclusion by the applicant. First, the Proposal for a Law prohibiting the conduct of unregistered activities is adopted. Second: any observations, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. The result? The conclusion was accepted by most votes, 78 votes for, 21 abstentions, and 6 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71982	We move on to one proposal to discuss in a united discussion of five points of the agenda, because it refers to a completely identical topic, compliance with the Law on Administrative Procedure - - Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 766 - Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Geographical Origin Marks and Origination Marks of Products and Services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 767 - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on patents, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 772 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Industrial Design, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 770 - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on trade marks, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 771 The same applicant, same subject, completely identical. What? ... This 38th and 39th amendments to the Law on trade marks and industrial design. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You got it. Okay. We're going to a united debate. The proposal is Government. It's an emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, economy, information, information and media, the Committee on Economy. Okay. Proposer? State Secretary Ivan Bubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71984	So all five of these suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71985	Honorable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. The area of all these five laws in the Republic of Croatia has been governed by individual laws and by relevant international agreements, to which the Republic of Croatia has joined. It is the right of patents, stamps, industrial design, and designations of origin and geographical indications for all products and services, and administrative fees for each of these areas. On 27 March 2009, the General Administrative Procedure Act was adopted. In accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the central authorities of the state administration are required to review the procedural provisions and to draw up proposals for amending and supplementing the laws in the administrative areas within the framework of their partial work, in order to bring them in line with the Administrative Procedure Act within 6 months. Thus, compliance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act is necessary in order to meet the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. The proposed laws should be adopted in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, primarily with its provisions on the scope and provisions under which, in the event of any lack of support, the party should be warned and left with a deadline within which it will be removed, but also with some other newspaper provided for by the General Administrative Procedure Act. In order to implement the proposed laws, there is no need to provide additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia because the implementation of these laws will not require additional funding from the state budget. The entry into force of these laws is proposed on the day of its publication in the National Journal. I would also like to say that on behalf of the legislator of these laws, that is, our ministry as the bodies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we accept all the amendments submitted to us by the Committee for the Legislator of this esteemed body of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71986	Thank you. The committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mrs. Representative Vesna Buterin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71987	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. As the State Secretary of State pointed out, it is, in fact, the harmonisation of those laws with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and I would like to say at the beginning that the HDZ Representatives' Club supports all the proposals of these laws in the proposed joint debate, and I will focus on patent law in my debate. The area of patents in Croatia has been governed by the patent law applicable since 1 January 2004, then by the patent Regulation and by the International Treaties which Croatia has joined. The existing patent law defines the basic concept, the subject of patent protection, the right to obtain patents, the procedure for recognition, the effects of patents, the restriction of the effects of patents, forced licenses, duration, etc. The entry into force of the Patent Act meets the greatest part of the obligations of harmonisation of Croatian patent legislation with EU legislation, and in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Croatia is obliged to bring the national legislative framework in the field of intellectual property into line with the EU acquis. In March 2009, the General Administrative Procedure Act was adopted to bring the procedural provisions of the law in certain administrative areas in line. The Law amending and supplementing the patent law amends and supplementing the provisions of the patent law in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act and, above all, with its provision under which the Law applies in all administrative matters. The existing patent law also contains a number of provisions that are regulated differently than prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act, such as the Institute of Returns to the Previous State, the content of the application that initiates the patent protection procedure, resulting from numerous international contracts signed by the Republic of Croatia. This is precisely why it is necessary in certain cases where this has not so far been envisaged to comply with the provision of the General Administrative Procedure Act in which, in the event of a lack of a submission, the party needs to warn and leave it with a deadline within which it will be able to remove it. It is also important to say that, in this proposal, amending and supplementing the law introduces and publishing the decisions of the Boards of Appeal on the official websites of the Boards of Appeal, all in order to allow transparency, thus ensuring additional transparency in the work of the Boards of Appeal, then enabling the control to work by the public and to monitor the development of legal practice. In addition, in certain legal provisions, fewer corrections have been made to remove the deficiencies observed during the period, but also to the application procedures of the patent itself. Therefore, all proposed laws achieve the necessary compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is necessary in order to meet the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23. On the basis of the above, the HDZ Representatives' Club supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Patent Act, supports the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights, further to the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Geographical Origin Marks and Tags of origin of products and services; we support the draft Act amending and supplementing the Act on Industrial Design and the Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mark Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71988	Thank you. HNS-HSU representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71989	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that the HNS-HSU club will also support this package of five laws. Just allow a few sentences about some of them. The Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights, therefore there were specific cases where the administrative fee had to be paid when the application itself was made without the possibility of calling the institution to such payment. Under this harmonised bill, the party should be alerted to a lack of support and set a deadline within which such a lack must be addressed. In the case of the Code of Tags of geographical origin and the designations of origin of products and services, there is, therefore, compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. 9 articles of this Act shall be amended or deleted by the provisions of the applicable law. Thus, the possibility of a complaint is proposed only for first-degree solutions, then any deficit in the party's submission must be previously warned with the insurance of the deadline for repair. The proposal for a law requires the removal of a provision providing for the subsidiary application of the General Administrative Procedure Act and ultimately the obligation of the Secretary-General to comply with the rule of law. A few words about the patent bill. Therefore, the proposed law amending and supplementing the patent law achieves more than 25 articles, necessary compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. FOR these reasons, the Bureau approached the examination of the procedural provisions of this Law and made amendments to it. The patent law contains a number of provisions which are regulated differently than prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act. These are, for example, the Institute of Returns to the Previous State, the object, the content of applications that initiates the patent protection process, the correction of errors that occur during this procedure before the Institute, etc. Such a situation is the result of numerous international contracts signed by the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is amending and harmonising the Law on Intellectual Property with the legal property of the European Union as well as with changes to its own Croatian laws. And once again, I repeat, the HNS Club of HSU will support the proposal of all five laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71990	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, the representatives of the theme Stanko Grčić and Zdravko Kelić will share. First Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71991	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Law on administrative fees in the field of law and intellectual property and the tariff on administrative fees, which is its integral part, regulates the payment of administrative fees for earlier in percentages conducted before the State Intellectual Property Office. The existing law, with the definition of basic terms, regulates the following questions: Payment of fees, exemption from the obligation to pay taxes, refund of fees, statutes of limitations, the right to return fees, the belonging of revenue from fees. The tariff of administrative fees provides for the amount of administrative fees for certain actions in the procedures carried out by the State intellectual property office. That Law provides for payment of administrative fees as follows, in procedures for the recognition and maintenance of industrial property rights under the Law on patents, the Law on trade marks, the Act on Industrial Design, the Code on Geographical Origin and the designations of origin of products and services and the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products. In the procedures for granting authorisation for the exercise of copyright, related rights under copyright law and related rights. In the procedure of enrolment of registered representatives in the area of industrial property rights under the Law on representation in the field of industrial property rights and on 27 March 2009, the Law on General Administrative Procedure was adopted, the procedural provisions of the Law in certain administrative areas should be brought into line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Following the above, he approached the examination of the procedural provisions of this Law and made an amendment to it. The proposed Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights should be adopted in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act as well as the proposed Law in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, in particular with its provision, in which case the party is to be warned and left with the deadline within which it will be removed. Article 1 proposed amending Article 6 which constitutes a general provision on the payment of administrative fees, namely, there have been specific cases where the administrative fee had to be paid at the time of the application itself, without the possibility of a call by the Office for such payment, which is contrary to Article 73. General Administrative Procedure Act. According to that provision of the General Administrative Procedure Act, it is necessary to warn the party of the lack of support and provisions, to set a time limit within which such a lack must be addressed. From what is said about this Law itself relating to charges relating to intellectual property rights, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the proposal of this Act as well as any other proposals set out here in the joint debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71992	Thank you. Individual debate, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71993	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I will support this law on geographical indications and designations of origin of products from services. Here, we have already heard here in the introduction that the changes relate to compliance with the general administrative procedure law. Therefore, these laws of geographical indications and designations of origin of products and services, with the determination of basic terms, mean the registration procedure of geographical indications and the designation of origin by the State Intellectual Property Office. In addition, the registration procedure for those markings as well as other procedures relating to the registration of labels and geographical origin and the designation of origin of products and services and to the registration of users of those markings, namely those in the jurisdiction of the State Intellectual Property Office. Therefore, according to the obligations and instructions of the Institute, this means that all that has been passed by the new Law on the General Administrative Procedure which entered into force in the past year means that it has joined after reviewing certain provisions in certain administrative areas means amendments and made to this proposal of the Law. The changes mainly relate to changes to the procedural provisions, and what I want to point out here is the change related to Article 2 under which any lack in the submission is required to predetermin the party to correct and only then, if the party does not correct the submission, can the solution be rejected. I believe that one positive change is because I have the feeling that sometimes even the referents in the resolution process are looking forward to something that is wrong and that automation is then rejected by quality suggestions and quality items. So here's another reason why we're giving the possibility that if we're somewhere and we're wrong in the procedure that we can fix it. Moreover, as regards Article 6 where it is proposed to improve the current expression, it would be clear that the reason for the declaration is not only the fact that the marking did not meet the conditions at the time but also if it no longer corresponds to the conditions for registration during the period. Here's these two kind of provisions I find positive, and that's why I'm going to support the amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71994	Thank you very much. I am concluding a debate on these five agenda points in a united debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u71995	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes in the field of intellectual property rights, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 766, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on administrative fees in the field of intellectual property rights. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 103 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72052	I would now suggest that, in a united debate, we discuss the same four points relating to the same alignment with the Administrative Procedure Act. - Proposal for a Social Labour Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 752, - Proposal for a Law on Educational Rehabilitation, first reading, P.Z. No. 755, - Proposal for a Law on Logopedic Activity, first reading, P.Z. No. 756, - Proposal for a Law on Socio-Pedagogical Activity, first reading, P.Z. Number 775. Please. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72053	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament has given you a small drop, these laws do not concern compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. These are brand-new laws, they are similar if we agree to discuss it in a package, but.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72054	Yeah, it's not a compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. First reading, yeah. Do you agree to unite the debate? Okay. State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72055	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the fact that a decision has been made to speak together about the laws allow me to give a few introductory words. In the social care system in the Republic of Croatia, a total of 11.5 thousand people are made up of over 2/3 of them by experts in the system. Professionals are social workers, social educators, educational rehabilitators, logos, and psychologists, lawyers and other professions that are classified under one category of breeders. What should be said is that in the welfare system there is a regulation exclusively for the profession of psychologists of the Law on Psychological Activity until other professions are regulated and therefore there are great differences in the performance of the profession depending on the type and in which the profession is carried out, the way in which the profession is performed or the competences in which the profession is accepted. In view of this and in line with the reform of the social care system that this Assembly has recently discussed both in its first reading and on the Social Care Act, it is envisaged to regulate all four professions that would only lead to a few things by their regulation. The first thing is to clearly and loudly determine what is the area of action of a particular profession. Secondly, how qualifications and skills are acquired to perform this profession, which will be a professional body to control professional work and also further progress, lifelong learning and the verification of the knowledge of a particular profession. And finally, whether it is health care, social care, education, justice or any other part of social work and social work, regardless of where it takes place, the work of a social educator is the work of a social educator no matter where it is carried out, and thus it will be obtained that our professional workers can emigrate between different professions. This between different activities, i.e. restors and thus rationally exploit the number of our professional workers we have in the Republic of Croatia. In all four laws, the body is determined in an identical way. It is a chamber, so a chamber approach has been adopted, as has been accepted in other resolutions that will have their own law of a given task and thus transfer a number of public powers to the chamber to control professional work. In particular, it should be pointed out that during the debate on these four laws on the parent board, the Committee on Health and Social Care has shown one incomprehensibility in Article 12, and I would in particular explain it immediately in the opening statement. Therefore, in all four laws, the university championship is listed as the first level of work education and then the second level is the university master of a particular profession. One and the other, there is a big difference between the university's first-graders, so according to this law, having the right to work, getting even the approval of independent work but not without the supervision of the magistrate, so completed with a graduate study. It is also written in Article 12 where Article 12 determines where the activity of any of these 4 professions, i.e. logos or social workers, where this article was intended to be clearly and aloud stated that in a working relationship or in private practice, these activities can be carried out in a working relationship in institutions, and private practice with... on solo work can be done exclusively by the graduate master of a particular profession. As this article did not make it clear during the discussion on the Committee, this will, until the final reading, send a somewhat amended article, which would make it clear that there would be no misunderstanding of what level of work and what competences and responsibilities are at the level of the first degree, which at the level of the graduate expert. I believe that in today’s conversation, if any questions are asked, we will be able to provide a quality answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72056	Thank you. Working committees and social partnerships, health care? The chairman of the board, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72057	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. As a parent body, the Health Committee discussed all four proposed laws. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained that in order to implement a comprehensive reform of the social care system, it is necessary to regulate more clearly the content and manner of those activities as a general activity of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The proposed package of laws prescribes the conditions for obtaining the approval of independent work as well as the conditions for carrying out the activities themselves, regulates the conditions and arrangements for the exercise of supervision over the work of the master of professions as well as university first-graders of those activities. The establishment of professional chambers for each of those activities as independent and independent professional organisations with the capacity of legal persons with public authority shall direct the professional development of each profession, promotion, representation, coordination of the interests of magistrates and university graduates of the profession as well as the care of their responsible and legitimate work. In the debate followed by the members of the committee, they called for comments from professional associations to consider their views on the final texts of the laws. The most controversial are the provisions of laws that distinguish university high school graduates, or persons who have not graduated according to the Bologna process and the magistrate. In fact, the higher education system in the Republic of Croatia has experienced some changes in order to bring the modern systems of higher education in the countries of the European Union into line in recent years. These changes have also led to changes in the titles acquired by graduates and graduates. The members of the Committee of Opinions are that the final draft of the law should provide for a clear distinction between university graduates working by order and under the supervision of magistrates from those who have won a degree. After extensive discussion, the committee members unanimously decided to submit to the Croatian Assembly the conclusions: the proposal for a law on social work activities, on education and rehabilitation activities, on the logopedic activity and on the proposal for a bill on socio-pedagogical activity is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72058	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Ms. Representative Sunday Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It should be said immediately that we are talking about four legislative proposals in a united debate and that all four activities are of public interest to the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the activity of social work, we talk about activities that promote social change, solve problems in human relations and the strength of a person for a better and better quality life for all citizens and citizens in Croatia. Social workers advocate social political and legislative initiatives that promote personal and social development, promote human rights and social justice and equality of all citizens. The fundamental principles of social work are the principles of human rights and social justice. The areas in which social workers operate are a system, as we have heard from the introduction of our secretary of state, social care in which 1252 persons are employed in other areas of public action, including health, education, justice, home affairs, local and regional self-government units, private sector, religious organisations and civil society associations, according to the 2008 report. Since there is no single register of employees according to types of professions, it is now not certain exactly how many social workers are working in this field of public action. The fact that social care centres cover 143 public powers clearly indicates the complexity of the process that takes place and which should be very professionally, knowingly, patiently and responsibly managed in order to achieve the previously stated objective. Well, you can just say that no crisis situation in the life of an individual, family or group of citizens has passed the welfare center. With all this, if we do not have enough humanity, sensitivity and empathy to human suffering, we will hardly manage the processes properly and empower the individual to take responsibility for himself and the members of his family, we will hardly release the potential to engage in a life that will benefit him, his family, and also to the benefit of the wider community. Last week, this House adopted the Social Care Act in first reading, creating conditions for a more successful social work profession in social care reform. The need to manage the processes of the system more successfully is also sufficiently strong reasons for the need to adopt the Law on the activity of social work. Back in 1954, it dates back to the need to connect social workers, to determine their ethical code, to support each other and to promote their profession. Today, the Croatian Association of Social Workers gathers about 800 members from all areas of activity. The proposal for this law uniquely harmonizes the changes that took place in the system of higher education of social workers. He regulates that social workers are persons with completed graduate studies and the calling of a Master of Social Work and a person with completed postgraduate study of social work and the calling of a university first-grader. They also apply appropriately to graduate social workers and graduate social workers engineers, as well as to social workers with completed higher school for social workers. The obligation of social workers is the constant renewal of acquired knowledge and the adoption of new, as well as skills, of course consistent with the latest achievements of science and practice. This law and the establishment of the Chamber of Social Workers determines the right to carry out activities, conditions for carrying out activities, standards of education, determines the duties, education, supervision of the work of the Master of Social Labour and the First Instanceary and will thus bring social workers in line with the social workers of the developed countries of Europe and the world. The Master of Social Labour and the University High School shall have the right to carry out their activities when they are entered in the directory of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers and are authorised for independent work, they may carry out activities in a working relationship and in private practice. The working relationship includes the activity of social work in institutions carrying out the activities of health, science, education and education and social care. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law on Educational Rehabilitation Activities, we talk about educational rehabilitationists, which is an earlier term for experts called defectologists. They work in education and education, social care, health care, professional rehabilitation, employment. This law fully and uniformly regulates the activity because this profession operates in several resolutions and areas, and will have a positive impact on faster and better quality implementation of national social inclusion policies for children with disabilities and children, as well as improving the rights of all citizens. The articulation of the profession by establishing a chamber founded by this law aims to represent and represent the interests of the masters of educational rehabilitation and university graduates. The proposal for a Logopedic Activity Act aims to harmonise the functioning of logos, the standard of their education and the conditions for carrying out their activities. This activity is present in healthcare, education and social care, and, of course, in private practice. According to its action, it differs only in place, as the secretary of state said, and not in content. This legislative proposal regulates the conditions for obtaining authorisation for independent work, supervision, quality control of the service provided, performance of approval, and renewal of approval and establishment of also the Croatian Logopedic Chamber. The aim is to direct professional development of the profession, promote the interest of logos and care for the conscious and legitimate work of logos. The legal proposal on socio-pedagogical activity regulates the content and manner of the activities of social educators, the standard of education, the conditions for the performance of socio-pedagogical activities, activities, professional supervision of the masters of social pedagogy and university graduates. Social-Pedagogical activity has an interdisciplinary differential effect on persons who manifest behavioral disorders. Social pedagogues work with children, young and adults at risk of development, or who manifest unacceptable behavior, behavioural disorders, mental disorders and criminal behavior. Social pedagogy is recognised in the Member States of the European Union as a profession that unites education, and social work, with a view to better integration of different risk groups and forms an integral part of each society. Of course we'll all agree to such a single finding. It also enables the establishment of a Croatian chamber of social educators, with the aim of directing the development of professions, promoting the interests of the masters of social pedagogy and university first-graders. All four draft laws represent acceptable and good solutions in activities that are of public interest to the Republic of Croatia. They're upgrades to the new Social Care Act. The secretary of state has already stressed and underlined, and what the Croatian Democratic Community Club also recommends to the promoter to more clearly determine the dissintion in the jurisdiction and part-round of performing the work of magistrates and university graduates by the second reading. Of course, compared to all four, all four professions. It is also recommended that state secretaries may be questioned by some additional parameters by the need to set up four chambers, i.e. for each activity of its chamber, or it may be another acceptable model, perhaps a smaller number of chambers, while at the same time not jeopardising the fundamental objective of establishing the chamber. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the adoption of these laws in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72060	Thank you. Club of representatives of HSS, Mr. Representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72061	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We will agree that social workers logos, socio-pedagogical workers and educational and rehabilitation workers play a noble role, helping others in situations that they cannot and cannot solve themselves. The general objective of these activities is to assist and support individuals, groups and communities by ensuring the protection of prevention, the removal of difficulties, rehabilitation and concern with the purpose of raising the quality of life. Social work of education-rehabilitation activity, socio-pedagogical activity, and logod activity are professions of public interest, which promote social changes in behavioral correction, problem solving in verbal and non-verbal communication, and interpersonal relations, and empowerment of persons to increase their well-being and quality of life. The significant objective of these activities is integration, solidarity and association with the society in which the practice of these activities takes place. Social work is primarily aimed at fostering positive changes in society and providing assistance and support to social services users, with no other interest in such a relationship. In fact, social workers act as organizers and social service providers, and are engaged in representing disadvantaged and discriminated individuals, groups or communities. According to the Ministry of Health and Social Care in the system of social care in professional affairs, a circus of 252 social workers has been employed. Of course, the total number of social workers employed in other areas of public action cannot be determined because Croatia still does not have a single register of employees according to types of professions. Logopedic activity aimed at detecting and removing disorders of verbal and non-verbal communication, and is achieved through prevention, diagnostics, treatment, and advisory and educational work. Social pedagogy deals with prevention, reduction or elimination of difficulties, which are manifested in social functioning, which may be the cause or effect of social exclusion, addiction, delinquent behaviour, disturbances, problematic living conditions, belonging to marginal groups. The educational-rehabilitation activity is based on procedures involving children with developmental difficulties, and all age groups of people with disabilities, who have difficulties in social inclusion. The adoption of these laws will regulate the standards of practice, education, responsibilities and responsibilities of those activities, and supervision for their work, which will be aligned with the same workers of the developed European Union countries. The laws also propose the establishment of a Croatian chamber for each of these activities, as an independent professional organisation, aimed at directing professional development of the profession, representing and coordinating the interests of each of those activities. Proposals for a law prescribe content and mode of action, standards of education, conditions for carrying out activities, duties, professional supervision of the work of social workers, logos, socio-pedagogical workers and educational and rehabilitation workers, and professional supervision of activities in general. All four laws are written with the same goal, and almost in the same form. They set standards, regulate activities, and generally reform into a social care system. The laws prescribe the establishment of chambers by public authority activities, the conditions for carrying out each activity, the conditions for carrying out independent work, the professional supervision of the work in the performance of the activity and others. Article 5(1) of the Law on the Activity of Social Work provides for conditions for the performance of social work, thus the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers is prescribed in the subparagraph of Article 4 of the Law on the Activity of Social Work, and compliance with these conditions is determined by the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers. For the other above conditions, their determination is not questionable because they are accompanied in the form of a certificate, i.e. university diplomas. But how and who will determine the knowledge of Croatian for citizens of EU Member States? This is not completely clear, so we believe that this should be specified, defined – more precisely defined. The same situation is also the case in all four draft laws, and therefore there is no need for them to be listed individually. Also, in the bill's proposals, we do not have a clear distinction in the competences of the master of the profession and university graduates, so we are proposed to clearly write the powers of each other so that there is no confusion and problem in practice. The HSS Club considers that the proposed laws in question come at the right time, we believe that those activities need to be regulated legally and regulated through the establishment of separate chambers with the establishment of a single register according to the types of profession. Addressing the situation and stabilising the system in those activities shows a sensitivity for activities that meet people with a certain dose of disability, people who need to care for social care, those who have a visual disorder of verbal or non-verbal communication and those where they are diagnosed and socio-pedagogical behavioural disorders. Since these are very sensitive social groups, they need to be approached with special attention in achieving and protecting their rights and the sufficient quality of service. These laws will increase the availability of experts from those areas once they have been brought into practice, promote professional ethics and professional development, and will generally lead to professional improvement, reflecting directly on users of services and their social environment. The HSS representative club will therefore support this proposal in its first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72062	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, representatives of Silvano Hrelja, Ms Danica Hursa and Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak in a united debate. ... Split up within 10 minutes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72063	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72064	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72065	So what are the rules, it's always been a united debate normal is more than 15 as much as it belongs to the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72066	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72067	It was 20 for two. So for these four, it's at least 30 minutes. Okay, here we go. We'll be as short as possible because you have to say what it is. Look, it's not our fault you united. We were getting ready each for our own law, how we got a job at the club. So, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. It is my duty to refer in some way to the proposal of the Law on the Activity of Social Work, although I would like to say a few introductory notes. Namely, these laws that are now in this united debate are a package of social laws in front of the Croatian Parliament and make up the contents of the overall let's say social reforms in the Republic of Croatia with the exception, i.e. with a lack of the National Social Work Strategy which is stuck somewhere in the government and has not yet come and is not sent to the Croatian Parliament. If it is a debate on the Social Care Act, it would be very good and very good quality to continue this public debate between the first and second readings and to hold a public debate on a package of these laws, and not just about one let's tell the parent law, because each of these laws hides possible solutions. Who says that a special chamber is the best solution for any profession or other solutions that are shown here in practice. So, in any case, I appeal to a public debate between 2 readings and I appeal to the Economic and Social Council which is working to bring its court within the framework of normal social dialogue in the Republic of Croatia on all these laws. As far as this law is concerned, the proposal for a Law on the Activity of Social Work, I think, in that law, too often interferes with the concepts. We have concepts and social security and social protection and social care and social work activities. I think on a few occasions how carefully I've read this law, these concepts get mixed up, and that's something to be careful about, because everyone has their own breadth. What is also important to say as a general observation of this law in its normative part did not cover the entire activity of social work. In the light of his assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues to be regulated in paragraph 7, he says that the total number of social workers employed in other areas of public action, the judiciary, education and education, the internal affairs of local and regional self-government units, the regional self-government that will deal with this problem by adopting the Social Care Act and which will certainly employ these professions. Then, the private sector, religious organisations, civil society associations in the Republic of Croatia says so far it is not possible to determine because of the absence of a single employee register according to types of profession, but it is also part of the activities of social work and for these people there must be places in this law. Or the name must be changed and it must be said that this will be a law on the profession of social worker and prime minister of social work. Therefore, this law satisfies, but if we are talking about the overall activity of social work, it simply does not cover certain segments of this activity. What is a specific general observation is that social work activity is unaccounted for. It is a systematic activity, but systematic social activity is not any activity. In paragraph 7 and paragraph 16, so what I have already said is incompletely and unequally stated where other than in the welfare system, social workers are employed and where the activity of social work is carried out, and this is further unevenly cited throughout the bill. For example, in Articles 10 and 12. The assessment of the situation and basic issues lacks information on what the approach so far is based on, as it reflects on users, individuals, or families and communities, which will benefit them because they are subject to social work by adopting this law. What, then, will benefit the family, that is, individuals, and the community. Whether the application of this law regulates the profession or would require a more precise determination of its social role, i.e. on what grounds it rests. It remains a dilemma after this debate. I'm asking the promoters to take care of it. As regards concrete objections to certain articles of the law, the description of the activity of social work has a lot of inaccuracies in Article 2. He says that social evaluation of the data collection and analysis process for the purpose of identifying difficulties has led to them and can be done to minimise difficulties. There is no indication of the social assessment that the target groups are related to. Furthermore, in determining what social work interventions are, it is said that these are prevention procedures, the question is what kind of prevention and treatment with the aim of supporting, the treatment of what? With the aim of supporting and helping users to overcome difficulties and achieve individual socially desirable changes, I ask what treatment? The social further in defining social actions says that this organised action is encouraged by professionals in the field of social care and other areas of work, social workers and university graduates of social work in order to promote human rights and social justice, raise public awareness of social problems and mobilise available social resources for social change in order to address social difficulties. Correcting injustice and raising the quality of human life. Whether, the question is, whether civil society organisations, non-professionals can act organisedly in terms of social action to promote human rights. Furthermore, in the formulation of educational activities, says the education of social workers and university graduates of social work, an educational group of users is missing and the education of other professional and non-professional volunteers and others involved in social actions and other activities in the area of social security of citizens. In Article 4, we have the illogicalness of the first and second paragraphs, or each other. Article 5 is amended as follows: The question is this, in paragraph 1 of the general conditions, subparagraph 1 of the graduate degree, university study for social work in the Republic of Croatia or nostrated diploma of the foreign university. There's a lack of definition of what kind of college from the domain of social care. Next, I'm going to skip one piece now and there'll be a chance to discuss it later. We have here the approval for independent work in Article 7 in contradiction with the provision of Article 4(2) where university graduates of social work have the right to perform social work only under supervision, whether they can receive or cannot obtain the approval for independent work, it is a dilemma in the whole of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72068	A colleague for just one moment. To make a deal, we'll just stop a little bit. You see in a united debate, only if the Parliament decides otherwise can a representative of the Club be spoken for 15 minutes, because otherwise, if they took a position that, in one united discussion by four laws, it would not be right, let's say, 60 representatives of the HDZ, and each on behalf of the club would speak for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72069	Mr. President, I'll cut it short, when I asked you how long a united debate would take you to tell me six minutes, I couldn't accept it at all, but if you'd told me 20 minutes I'm stopping right now, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72070	We'll figure this out for you, we'll make one gentlemen's agreement, here's 20 minutes to all three.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72071	Okay, I will conclude with only one comment on Article 20 which speaks about the obligation to respect the ethical code of activity of social work, for the masters of social work and university graduates of social work. Note, we support respecting the ethical codes of all professions, as this is necessary for the benefit of users and communities. We ask how it is intended to regulate the obligation to respect the principle of professional access to social care users who are often members of vulnerable groups or socially depressed. Under the conditions of deinstitutionalisation of social care where service providers are not bonds of membership of professional chambers, for example members of civil society organisation or natural persons. I'm at the disposal of Mr. Secretary of State, and if he's interested in anything else, he has any more of these objections, so feel free to call me and I'll explain very carefully that I'm not taking your time because it's pretty late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72072	Ms. Danica Hursa.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72073	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will refer on behalf of the HNSU Club to the proposal of the Law on Logopedic Activity which regulates both the content and the way logopedes and the logopedic activities work work. Thus, the conditions for obtaining the authorisation for independent work for the performance of the activity as well as the conditions and arrangements for the exercise of supervision of the work of the trainee logopedes and quality control of the services provided shall be laid down. The establishment of the Croatian Logopedic Chamber as well as the obligation to associate logos for the purpose of professional development of the profession is also prescribed. But here's to the introductory part, we're at the HNS Club of HSU as some other clubs get comments and suggestions from the logo profession, so let me let me read how much time it allows me to read what the profession suggests, we at the HNSU Club with most of these remarks agree. In the opening part of the profession, therefore, it is proposed that the next paragraph should be read. Study of Logopedia, therefore pre-graduate university study and postgraduate university study in the Republic of Croatia educates experts in the following text: logopedi and university graduates. So they suggest adding this to the introductory part. The provisions of this law relating to the masters of the Logopedia shall apply in an appropriate manner and to university first-degrees of the Logopedia, etc., as referred to in Article 1(3). in that article. Article 3(2) of their proposal should read, the logopedic activity should be carried out in the activities of health, science, education, education, social care and other legal persons and legal practice. The reasons for this article are as follows, this is a formulation in accordance with the formulas on the implementation of the Health Protection and Psychological Activity Act, and it is important that in this way it formulates this provision so as to ensure that the logopedic activity and the logos they perform would not be in a different and worse position than those professions. Article 4(1) should read, the right to carry out the logopedic activity shall only be subject to master's logopedics entered in the directory of the Croatian Logopedic Chamber and shall be granted on their own. Article 4(2) should read, university first-graders of the Logopedia should only be entitled to carry out activities in the logopedic activity under the supervision of the Master of Logopedia for which they acquire competences by a specific curricula and the programme of study of the Logopedia in the Republic of Croatia and the acts of the Croatian Logopedic Chamber. In Article 4, paragraph 3 is also to be added, which is a legal or natural person who employs the university's first-rate Logopedia is required to report it to the Croatian Logopedic Chamber, which introduces it into the logopedia first-rate register. Article 5(1) of subparagraph 1 should read, general conditions for the exercise of logopedic activity are, completed graduate university studies, education-rehabilitation college in the Republic of Croatia or nostrated diploma of the foreign university. Article 5(1) of subparagraph 4 shall read, knowledge of Croatian language in speech and letter, with the presentation of the certificate of approval of an institution in the Republic of Croatia for the assessment of the degree of knowledge of Croatian language. Article 5(1) of subparagraph 6 should read, authorisation for independent work on the basis of the basic and special permission of the Croatian Logopedic Chamber. It shall be added in Article 5(1) of subparagraph 7 of this Article, which is a pre-graduate university study to carry out lower level of complexity in the logopedic activity. In addition to this basic authorisation, the Master of Logopedia shall be issued after a professional examination has been passed, and in particular on the basis of completed appropriate training under the specific programme. Article 6(1), subparagraph 5, should read, inter alia, the follow-up to the disciplinary punishment of the Croatian Logopedic Chamber, has lost the right to carry out the logopedic activity or part of the activities of the logopedic activity for university first-graders. Article 7(1) should read, the Master of Logopedia, which is entered in the directory of the Master's Logopedics Croatian Logopedic Chamber of Logoedics gives approval for independent work. Article 7(1) should read, the grant of independent work shall demonstrate the professional competence of the Master of Logopedia for the self-execution of the Logopedic Activity in the Republic of Croatia. Article 8(2) should be read, the masters of the logo are required every 6 years to pass the examination of the expertise in the Croatian Logopedic Chamber in order to renew the approval for independent work on the activities of the logopedic activity. Article 8 is added in paragraph 3, university first-graders of the Logopedia are required every 6 years to pass the professional examination at the Croatian Logopedic Chamber in order to renew the authorisation to work on the activities of the logopedic activity. Is the time out? I'm sorry if that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72074	No, no, please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72075	Then we have the current Article 8(3) becomes Article 8(4) and should read, the conditions for renewing and withdrawing the authorisation for the independent work of the Masters of Logopedia or approval for the work of university graduates of the Logopedia are prescribed by the General Act of the Croatian Logopedic Chamber. Article 9(1) should be read, the permanent professional training of the Masters of Logopedia and the University of Logopedia graduates shall be carried out through participation in professional specializations, seminars, courses and expert meetings. Article 9(2) should read, the employer is obliged to allow the Master of Logopedia, or the University of Logopedia, professional training within the scope necessary to renew the authorisation for work. The head of trainees is also processed and it is said that Article 10(1) should read, after completing the education of the Master of Logopedia, or the university’s first grader of the Logopedia, they are required to qualify for independent work, and should read, after completing the education of the Master’s Logopedia, they are required to qualify for independent work. Article 10(2) should read, the traineeship of the Master’s Logopedia and the university’s first grade of the Logopedia for a year and shall be carried out in health institutions, institutions for education and education, etc. I'm running out of time. We will deliver this material in writing to the proposer and we hope that some proposals will find their place in the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72076	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72077	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I will say something about two draft laws and this Law on Educational and Rehabilitation Activities and the Law on Socio-Pedagogical Activity. I will not go into detail because I have no doubt that professional associations that gather and social educators, but also educational rehabilitators, have sent their comprehensive remarks and suggestions to the proposer and that the proposer will take account of this between the two readings. However, I would like to warn a few of me about the illogicality. First of all, the fact is that in all four of these laws there are some provisions that are collegiate with themselves. Here's an example. This is an example which defines the issue of self-employed work, i.e. the possession of a licence and, then, the Law on Social and Pedagogical Activity in Chapter II-Constructions on Social-Pedagogical Activity, that is, Article 4, as well as in the Law on Educational Rehabilitation Activity, and that is also the Head of the Conditions of Conduct of Education and Rehabilitation, but Article 3 defines that the right to perform socio-pedagogical activities shall be subject to the Master of Social Pedagogy and the University's first grade of social pedagogy which are entered in the directory of the Croatian Chamber of Social Pedagogues and shall be approved for independent work. After that comes a provision that states that first-rates have the right to perform socio-pedagogical activity only under the supervision of the master of social pedagogy. If something is under control or supervisory supervision, then it's not on its own and it's one big contradiction. We need to see exactly what this means, and in light of this same law, Article 10, which says that, after completing education, the masters of social pedagogy, or university graduates of social pedagogy, are required to qualify for independent work. We will find a similar provision in Article 7. The Educational Rehabilitation Act, which says that the master’s degree in education rehabilitation is mandatory every 6 years, etc. in order to renew the authorisation for independent work, that is to say, the terms and conditions under which the authorisation for independent work is obtained. So, on the one hand, we have a very solid story about both magistrates and first-raters having the right to get a license for independent work, and then later we say that the first-timers do their part of the activity exclusively with the supervision of the magistrates. It's in contradiction, either it's one thing or it's another, and it needs to be defined. Furthermore, one of the illogicalities that arises from a good desire, and I would say the natural desires of each profession to be filigree and perhaps even silk and not gently defend the interests of its profession, its profession, and try as much as possible to clear up the space in which this profession develops is this intensity to get four chambers. As good as that is, it is a big question that we must find a common answer with the profession, but we too, as responsible people, who set some frameworks for budgetary policy. Because if it is true that there is only 371 educational rehabilitator in the entire Republic of Croatia, just for a second, so that I don't misquote what the proposer explicitite says. According to the social care institutions, according to the annual statistical report on employees in the institutions of social care in the Republic of Croatia in 2008, only 371 educational rehabilitator was employed, most 320 of whom were in the homes of social care founded by the Republic of Croatia. So it is clear not only that most of them were in the same institutions but that they were all with the same employer. So in such circumstances when we have 371 educational rehabilitator talking about a special chamber, the question is whether it is meaningful and profitable at all, whether this chamber can be sustainable, whether it can really be so weak in membership to protect the interests of its membership. If we have already had a case and some solutions within some health professions, so in health care as an activity that one chamber through two, three or four classes can effectively protect the interests, the border interests of each of their classes, but being one raises the question whether it is contradictory as an idea and a possible solution to these professions. A team of three of these four professions produces only one university in the Republic of Croatia, so the Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation. So under the same roof three different studies, so when everything is summed up and subtracted, an extremely small number of people who carry out certain activities, that number moves between 370 and 1500. Could a chamber so weak, so small by the number of members be strong enough to protect the interests of the profession. It seems to me that we should sit down once again with professional organisations because having an association and a chamber is not the same thing and all those in similar activities who have already resolved this issue of chamber association, but should open all issues very fair, very directly and say exactly what it means among other things and for the financial obligations of the Republic of Croatia. Because this chamber, which would make up 370 members, has no chance that it can function from its own income, it has to be highly touched from the state budget, it's quite clear. In this regard, we call on the applicant to consider the possibility of economicisation in this area until the second reading, so until the final proposal. Whether it will be a decision that will enable logos to partly go where health professions are, and partly where social care professions are located, whether it is a matter of uniting two or three of these professions into one chamber, but with three firmly defined classes that will be defined by law as something concrete, responsible and powerful enough to protect the interests of each of these individual professions of three that we mention here, that is now an open question. But we should also appeal to those that we understand so far have not had any chamber because this is the tabula of the race that we have now, so now we're creating a system so that no rights are taken away but acquired but created new ones. Therefore, it should also invite them to contribute in their own way in these times not to create something that could tomorrow be called additional large networks and systems that perhaps we cannot sustain financially, given our fiscal power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72078	Thank you. SDP representative club, Ms. Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72079	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Here on behalf of the SDP, we support this first reading of the social care law package, the Proposal for a Law on Social Labour Activity, Educational Rehabilitation Activities, Logopedics, and Socio-Pedagogical Activity. Of course, I must say that the beginnings of these laws are moving from 8 years ago when actually the main professional organisation of Croatian social workers' associations began to implement this law. After psychologists who bravely broke through the ice with their professional law and other professions, meaning they began to go this way, so of course to help the profession, within the profession, to actually be better services to end users. These professional laws are, of course, made according to the rules of the profession, respecting the specificity of each of them, which is, of course, visible in the opening part, where you describe what the profession is doing. The novelty is to enable the creation, the opening of private practice, which of course will raise competitiveness, and of course we hope for the quality of services. But that's what I would say, to support what the gentleman before me from the HNS said would explain a lot of things. What needs to be looked at is the difference between the first-timers and the master of the profession, because the laws also state that the licenses for independent work are granted by the chamber, which already distinguishes both calls in the beginning, which type of activity can be carried out by the prime minister, or the magistrate, and thus will be prescribed through the area of action by the competent minister, based on laws that regulate certain activities, for example. and through the Family Law, that is, the Social Care Act. I think all of these laws are set on good foundations, and there's a visible impact of the profession and I hope that the profession has been consulted in this first reading, and we expect of course that it will be for the second reading even more. So it is certainly worth welcoming these laws and I believe that they will bring more positive winds in between professions, because also defecologists, and social workers and logos, they are unfortunately, very often called professional services. They are very often the weakest paid professions, and certainly very responsible, in all areas where they work. They were paid, with salaries even sometimes up to 50% below average. For all of the most controversial, all of these laws have been most disputed by the very provisions relating to first-raters, or social workers who have not graduated according to the Bologna process and of course the magistrates. Just like our colleagues from the CNS, we've received remarks from the logo association, and you've got, I'm glad to, and we'll deliver it to our secretary of state, we said that last time on the board, so I'll just say a little bit of it, the bill equals the logo and university graduates, but of course it can't because, one is educated for three years, another five years, and of course they differ according to their competences. Unfortunately, when it comes to logos, I have to say that there are too few of them, so that they cannot cover all the more needs, and everyone who deals with children, education and other institutions knows how much they need them. Therefore, children usually receive too little therapeutic hours, they are not able to educate teachers and parents, they cannot organise systematic checks of children’s ability and so on, therefore, it is all the result of a small number of logos. Otherwise logopedic activities, they are carried out in a very wide area starting with otorinolaringological, paediatric, neurological, psychiatric, clinic, hospital, health care homes, mental health institutions, counselling centres, medical rehabilitation centres, education and education, rehabilitation of hearing, listening and speech, etc., etc., not to be listed from preschool institutions. We can therefore say that 70% of the logos work in the health care and social care system, while the remaining 30% of the logos are employed in institutions of education and education. Most of the practical teaching is carried out in health and social institutions, and then in institutions of education and education. Therefore, it certainly seeks to establish a chamber, and the aim of establishing a chamber is specifically logopedic, as a professional one, for better organisation of logos, i.e. to direct professional development of professions. I would also mention social work, or social workers, who, of course, also have a very wide area of action. Namely, they are, on a daily basis, looking at Croatian reality and of course they must, they cannot leave it all, they must be very empathyal and all these calls that I mention today in these laws are certain that they should bring themselves into their work, and that is why I say that we should support them, this law... their chambers will, of course, work to improve their profession, improve the whole problem they have, of course, in order to improve the end-user. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's one more time for social workers, so they listen to tragic human stories every day, child abuse, divorce lawsuits, lives, indifferences, etc., so we can't say that it's easy to do their work. Then I would mention, today it is increasingly common for minor delinquency and cannot mention socio-pedagogical activities, whose activity is in fact aimed at preventing delinquency and behavioral disturbances, and of course, in cooperation with other experts, makes a major contribution to monitoring and studying this phenomenon that we have to fight daily. In fact, social pedagogues work with children, young people, adults, and do so on their unacceptable behavior, behavioral disorders, and mental disorders. They therefore also work in the field of education, social care, health care. So we see that all these professions that we have listed have their very wide scope of action and of course responsibilities in business. And finally, let's not forget the educational rehabilitators, our defectologists who work with children with developmental difficulties with groups of people with disabilities who, of course, have difficulties social inclusion. Here's what I'm going to mention today, recently we've had a day of autism, and I'm going to mention this group that are very much needed to finally get the ability to diagnose their disease, and not that their social rights are unfortunately given very often by the diagnosis of mental retardation. I must say, when it comes to educational rehabilitators that they are missing, they are currently missing at least 30% of the experts of this profile. So this first reading, of course, we support it. I hope that the proposer will respect the profession and observations of the profession for the second reading and that as far as the chambers mentioned earlier will, of course, be consulted. As for the chamber and that it will be very rationally done because it does not mean that everyone has a chamber that will work more effectively than if there is one chamber with a higher class which is an example in the chamber of the medical chamber, and also here is the dental chamber, or dental medicine chamber, which also has a class of dental technicians. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72080	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72081	Thank you very much. Who gave you the right to speak for me? Excuse me. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately say that I will support all four draft laws which, as part of the comprehensive reform of the social care system in the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Government has delivered to this High House for discussion and adoption in the regular procedure. I support and welcome that the bill's proposals have been made in cooperation with the profession and professional associations, as well as the adoption of the law in two readings that allow for the completion and possible repair of the observed shortcomings. Following the model of harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the EU acquis in the field of regulated professions that we have discussed and adopted last week in the field of health care, I welcome the proposal to regulate activities in our country in the social care system, which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. So we received proposals from the Law on Social, Social Labour, Logopedia, Social Pedagogy and Educational Rehabilitation. What do these four laws mean? I think that today, although here quite late in this assembly, talking about these activities means a certain way of acknowledging the profession. It means promoting all these activities that we've seen are highly deficited. In fact, these laws have revealed to us how deficient we are in these activities. So I also use this debate to invite those who decide on enrolment quotas at the Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation at the University of Zagreb as well as young people who choose and choose higher education to know which are high deficits and so much of the professions and occupations in the Republic of Zagreb so that they can be, that they can choose and train for those professions that have guaranteed employment. So in the proposals of these laws, we have seen how much we lack educational rehabilitators, says the promoter is 30% minimal at this point missing in the education system and social care system. According to the number of logos, the population is only Portugal and Greece. So we are better than Greece and Portugal, but therefore weaker than other EU member states. We've seen the number of social educators, we've heard how many social workers are employed in the system, not just social care. But we have also heard how many members of the Croatian Association of Social Workers, the roof organisation of 16 regional social workers associations working in all areas of activity. And that's why I tend to those clubs, so first of all the HDZ club, and the other clubs that have advocated that here, between these two readings, are making extra efforts to talk to professions and professional organisations so that maybe we can make a joke about 60 grand because each of the chambers in these bill proposals is secured by 20 thousand kunas, but this is just a joke. We're not doing it for savings, we're doing it for the very reasons that the predecessors talked about in their discussions, which is to ensure the smooth work of the chambers. According to the number of certain experts, I am not sure that all four chambers will be able to carry out the task entrusted to them under this law. Likewise, the Law on Psychological Activity was passed some 9, 10 years ago, so I am free to ask the Secretary of State whether there is a need for something to be regulated by this law, even though it has regulated the profession, or whether there is a need to change something, and perhaps to use it because we know that the psychological chamber, or the Chamber of Psychological Activities, has a problem in its work because of a small number of members, because of the inability to finance from registrations, or membership fees, and we have seen that in the proposals of these laws public powers entrusted to these chambers, funds would be provided in the state budget. I therefore believe that these laws are good because they introduce order into all these activities, make sure they work on the well-being of experts working in these activities but also on the well-being of users, their knowledge, skills and competences that a large number of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia need. And not to delay, once again, the invitation to all those who decide on the registration quotas to allow for a number of participants of these professions, and so that until the second reading, the doubts that have been observed in the law are removed, so in this debate I will ask the Secretary of State, when we talk about criminal provisions that prevent the fines of the masters of these activities, I ask the question of what is with university first-rates in all the activities, because then the question is whether they carry out independent work or for their work the full responsibility is taken over by the magistrates, it is just a small example of some irregularities that I hope by the 2nd reading, until the final proposal of the law will be removed. So once again, I will support the adoption of all these four laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72082	Thank you. The replica of Madam Representative Gjurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72083	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State and colleague Bilic. I'm just going to replicate to you for one single reason because I've been approached by 70% of the health care logos. Respecting all this we have heard about the profession of the Logopedic, about its importance, logos in health care especially working in special hospitals such as Krapina spas, Varazdinska and others are indeed working with the most difficult patients and are educated at the highest European standards. I think and I'm sure they'll open up space so that they don't actually, not them, but that logos become health workers, and why it's important to let me read it. It is important because in all European Union countries the logos are health workers, what is most important if the logo is regulated in our country as an unhealthy profession will have problems in mutual recognition of qualifications on the European labour market and the purpose of legal regulation is to recognise the European labour market and provide services in any Member State as set out in Chapter 2. So once again I would point out that all healthcare professionals can work outside the healthcare system, that's what one part of the logo scares, so it's not true, everyone will be able to work both outside the system and in the system but certainly the logos will be cut off unless they are regulated as a health activity. I can personally talk about some things, there's no time, but I hope that they will appreciate that logos are still health workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72084	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72085	Replication response. I am aware of the problem or some dissatisfaction that the logos show because they are in hospitals and are not the only ones in the health care system who are clearly dissatisfied with their status with the dissatisfaction of the medical associate status. I don't know if the logos were ever able to get into the health care system before and how they were then determined. I pointed out that these laws were made, bill proposals made in cooperation with professions and professional associations. Obviously, when the waist can't agree with each other, so one would share a separate chamber, the other would go, and it all depends on what system they are working on that the secretary of state should certainly know more about this problem than I do, but definitely advocate, try to talk to them again and see what the definition of logos in Croatia is, is the health system going to enter the chamber there or stay here with social care. I think until the second reading we have a chance and thank you for bringing this problem out on behalf of the logo.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72086	Thank you. Final review of Secretary of State Ante Zvonimir Golem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72087	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I thank you for today's debate, it is only necessary to say a few things since these four laws go into second reading, they are prepared in cooperation with the profession and will be prepared in cooperation with the profession for final reading. I would ask that all today's remarks that have been made here to be delivered and all the ambiguities that we consider on our part I think we'll settle in the second reading so thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72088	Thank you. I'm closing the discussion on the united four points and we're going to have another one tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72089	We move on to the Proposal for a Law on the Activity of Social Work. This was the first reading, P.Z. Number 752. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on the Activity of Social Labour is adopted. Second: any observations, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let us please include and vote on the bill, or the conclusions proposed. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This conclusion was accepted by most votes, 104 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72204	- Final bill amending and supplementing the Chemical Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 750. Government Proposer, the debate was conducted by the Committee and on legislation, European integration, health care and social care. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Ante Zvonimir Golem will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72205	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow just a few things, the Law on Chemicals, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2005, one of which had already been harmonised in 2008 with the European Union directives and should now in the process of approaching the day of accession of Croatia to the European Union, to bring the remaining regulations in a certain way in line with certain regulations and directives of the European Union and with the existing legislation of the Republic of Croatia. In short, you have a legislative proposal in line with the Law on Chemicals, with the Law on Trade adopted by the Croatian Assembly in 2008, with the Law on Sanitary Inspection of a New System and the responsibilities of the 2008 Sanitary Inspectorate, the 2010 European Community Regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of chemicals, the regulation... and the additions to the Ridge Regulation which is the need for harmonisation and the General Administrative Procedure Act. I hope if there are any additional questions, we're at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72206	Thank you. The committees? The Committee on Health and Social Care, Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The board discussed this law as a parent body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the basic reasons for proposing amendments and amendments to the law. As pointed out, certain amendments are necessary in order to comply with the applicable chemical law with the Law on Trade and in the section relating to the concept of importers, i.e. the extension of this concept to natural persons, and not only to legal persons for the purpose of carrying out the registered activity of importing goods and services to the Republic of Croatia. It is also necessary to comply with the provisions of the applicable law with the new establishment of the Sanitary Inspection at the Ministry of Health and Social Care, as amended by the Sanitary Inspection Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2009. The proposed amendments and additions have been highlighted in the debate that followed and are necessary in order to comply with the European Parliament and Council Directive of 18 December 2008 on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. Furthermore, the legislative proposal is complemented by provisions that will allow the provisions of the Reach Regulation relating to matters which are subject to the approval procedure at EU level to be transposed accordingly in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Regulation 1272 of 2008, certain basic concepts and definitions of the transport of chemicals are also amended. This changes the definition of products and polymers and introduces new definitions of distributor users, recipients as well as definitions of storage and risk category of chemicals. The applicable law is also in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act concerning the approval of activities with dangerous chemicals and, for the purpose of fulfilling one of the measures, Chapter 23-Court and Fundamental Rights. After the discussion, the committee members unanimously decided to propose the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72208	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72209	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So according to the chemical definition are substances and preparations, I will be a short colleague of the Hrelja, substances and preparations, so in a natural apartment or produced in the manufacturing process, and the preparations are mixtures or solutions that are made up of one or more substances. So the definition itself shows if the wide area is working. And if we mention that in Europe somewhere over 100,000 chemicals are somehow in circulation that back 70 years is about 400 times the number of chemicals increased and some one billion 250 million tons are produced in different chemicals annually in Europe, then you know for yourself how important the area is and there is not one part of human life in which chemicals are not present, but, of course, with all their benefits, they have their own harmful sides and especially for health and the environment. We also talked about health and the environment and, of course, all the countries in the world are aware of these dangers, and in 1992, the adoption of agenda 21 chapter 19 of the UN Environmental Conference has committed all countries to making extreme efforts to protect against these dangerous chemicals. Of course, in Dubai, a strategic approach to international chemical management is adopted, so all countries are also obliged to manage chemicals effectively, but, of course, in the EU in this respect, it is very important for the Environment Agency, the Chemicals Agency, but in this area, of course, the same thing has been done by the press doctor and, of course, the Institute of Toxicology that had its significance at the time of the war. And this 2005 law, which has already been amended but in this sense it is now needed to comply with this Regulation, with the 2010 Regulation, but, of course, with our legislation, since trade laws, the Sanitary Inspection Act, have been adopted in the meantime, and three significant amendments have been made to that effect. First, as far as importers themselves are concerned other than legal persons are concerned, it is possible that they can also do so by natural persons. Furthermore, the Law on Sanitary Inspection which approves the use of dangerous chemicals but of course also controls them. It is also important to amend and monitor the production of plant protection products and is now in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. This would be the third major amendment to this General Administrative Procedure Act. It is also necessary but particularly important to mention it in terms of the storage of dangerous chemicals that must not be stored at water source sites, which is very important because today it may be forgotten. So, in addition to these obligations and harmonisation of the law with EU legislation, I believe these changes will further improve this important area, which is why the HDZ club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72210	Thank you. HNS representative club, HSU's Mrs. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. Since 2005, the Chemical Law, whose provisions protect the life and health of people, has been in force and environmental protection is prescribed. Meanwhile, provisions of many European directives and regulations have been transposed into the law. In 2008, the law was drafted in a way that brought it into line with European provisions concerning registration, evaluation, authorisation and restrictions of chemicals, improving the provisions on inspection controls and erasing certain solutions imposed on the parties by additional burdens. The law was then harmonised in 2008 with the Law on Trade and the Law on Sanitary Inspection. The classification, labelling, packaging and approval of dangerous chemicals in accordance with the regulations and directives of the European Community have been amended. Today, we are in a situation of harmonisation of the law with the new General Administrative Procedure Act in the section relating to the approval procedures for carrying out activities with dangerous chemicals. Under the proposed law, national and European legislation is harmonised in an important area covered by chemicals that are so present in our everyday life and affect our health and the environment. The draft law certainly constitutes further control and improvement of protection provided that, of course, the legal provisions are strictly applicable. HNS Club, HSU will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72212	Thank you. State Secretary? Restraint. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Resume session tomorrow at 9.30, just a vote on the completion of the agenda and the debated 30 points.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-14-0.u72213	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. Number 750. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 99 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against. We have a report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission, so Mr. Sesvečan will propose. Here you go.
