ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75015	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At its thematic session, the Health Committee proposed a resolution on diabetes, following a trail of European institutions, European countries, and central European institutions that also involve political organisations in the fight against the 21st century epidemic. This epidemic is unfortunately a diabetes, so I'll explain with a few sentences why we entered such a decision, and how our thematic session on this problem went. Sugar disease is one of the biggest problems of today’s public health, one of the most common causes and pains and mortality in all countries of the world. We are sitting, and we have dedicated this resolution to type 2 diabetes, this is the type that is the most common 95% of the patients has this type of disease, it is an adult diabetes, which happens due to increased insulin resistance or lack of insulin, so insulin that is responsible for mobilizing and passing sugar into the cell, and sugar is as you know the main energy for metabolic processes. So today, in a world of type 2 diabetes, more than 150 million people suffer, and that is why it is called the 21st century epidemic. It is believed that over 25 years in the world, 380 million people of type 2 diabetes will suffer, and the world health organization and all social institutions raise this problem to global alarm levels, 380 million people will have diabetes, and yet so much because of their predisposition will be in a position to develop this diabetes. What's worst is that type 2 diabetes is comfortable with a modern way of life, so risk factors are exactly what we do and shouldn't do, overeating, sitting down, after that smoking and all the sins that we keep doing our whole lives. It is therefore believed that almost 10% of the world's population will suffer from type 2 diabetes. Why are we so afraid of this diabetes, and what does that mean for the man who got sick? Sugar disease is unfortunately a whole series of very serious, life-threatening complications. The most common complications of diabetes is the closure of blood vessels, so diabetes promotes the thickening of the vascular wall and closure of the blood vessels, resulting in a heart and brain attack. So if it's a blockage... artery, it's a heart attack, dying part of the heart. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's a blockage of the brain artery, it's the death of a part of the brain. In patients with diabetes, heart disease is 8 times more common than in others, and the stroke is 6 times more common than, therefore, 6 times and 8 times, respectively. This tells you why diabetics die much earlier, unfortunately at a working age. How are we in the Republic of Croatia? In the Republic of Croatia today, we have about 300 thousand people who suffer from type 2 of this disease, but the number of new patients is growing and higher, and it was an alarm and a reason to suggest such a resolution, and to mobilise the entire Croatian public in suppressing this disease, because the disease can be contained, can be discovered early, can be treated, but of course the suppression and early detection is much more effective, much cheaper, and much more important than the treatment itself. What concerns Croatia is that in 5 years, the number has increased by 50%, so the number of patients has doubled in 5 years. We in Croatia, I speak to doctors, have made a whole series of actions to slow it down, to prevent it, to contain it, so we have brought a national programme against diabetes, but we doctors, healthcare professionals cannot end this disease ourselves, because it is a social problem, not just a medical problem. In the national programme, we have organised early detection of diabetes, which is the basis for suppressing an increase in the number of diabetes, especially early detection in pregnancy, prevention of the development of chronic complications in those who have already suffered from diabetes. I'm going to mention a few more complications besides these most difficult ones I mentioned, one of the most severe is nephropathies or kidney failure in a diabetic patient, retinopathy whose effect is blindness, etc. Among the most important aspects of the national programme is education, education from the earliest age is one that can prevent diabetes and can lead to more of our residents living a life that will not end with type 2 diabetes. I must also mention the way of education, the way of registration, detection and treatment of patients who have been known throughout the world by Croatian model, and precisely this Croatian model, the Croatian model of access to diabetes is a world health organization there 20 or more years ago taken as a visual model to combat diabetes. So not for any longer, we did practically everything we could in medical circles, but the consequence is a double number of patients than type 2 diabetes in 5 years. So we need to call for help from a wider community. This is what other institutions have done, so I will mention only a few European documents, it is a European strategy for prevention and control of chronic non-infectious diseases, and that group includes the ones we talk about, then... So from 2006, when the European declaration of diabetes was adopted, the European Parliament's 2006 declaration of diabetes, then the conclusions... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are the conclusions that talk about promoting healthy lifestyles in the prevention of type 2 diabetes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And at the end of 2006, they adopted Resolution 61/225. which is just saying that the wider social community has to be involved in solving this problem because otherwise we won't be able to root it out. To this end, we organized a thematic session involving 80 experts, participated with his lectures of 9 major lecturers, 25 co-workers, and we had representatives of 6 anti-diabetes organizations, so diabetic patients who made an incredibly large contribution to solving this problem. After two hours of debate, we adopted the text of the resolution that is before you. In it, you have a text in front of you so I won't read it, but I'll highlight just a few important and content points. So we're talking to whom? We address the largest political and social community, government, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, which is particularly important for the education of the youngest about diabetes, Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Croatian Institute of Public Health, all health institutions, but also all economic operators, media, all associations of patients and the largest social community. And we ask them what? To do everything in their ability to prevent, detect, treat and rehabilitate diabetic patients. To provide, organise and finance all activities, and there are indeed many, whose aim is to reduce the number of patients and the number of deaths from type 2 diabetes. To promote healthy lifestyles, especially quality nutrition, physical activity, weight control, non-smoking, avoiding excessive alcohol consumption, high pressure control, fat. So, in public actions, we get such support because this is what has an educational and therefore educational function. We specifically address the means of public information and ask them to pass on information on diabetes and chronic non-infectious diseases, especially to media that are public and who should take the role completely free of charge. And finally, we are talking to the widest public community to promote awareness of the need for regular preventive health checks, primarily to determine blood sugar levels once a year for which the population is spreading. And no less important, to help us organise the equal availability of all prevention, treatment and rehabilitation procedures regardless of the social status of any resident. Everyone has the same right to prevent and treat diabetes. Here is the emphasis in our resolution, and I ask that you, in your discussions, and in particular in your vote, support this resolution and that Croatia be involved in those countries that have mobilized the entire social public to fight this serious and dangerous disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75016	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75017	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. From the beginning, the HDZ Club strongly supported the the thematic session organised by the Committee on Health and Social Care, where it gathered as we heard the most important names in the area of diabetes, of course representatives of the Association of Diabetes, the Association of Patients, representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, and here which issued this resolution that I believe we will adopt all together. But before you start, allow a few words also about diabetes. Not because we don't know, maybe it's good to repeat, and the other thing to mention is that there's been no more of those shows lately, the acceptable ones I'd say so, acceptable on television, and accessible to the general public that in some way, they were, at least I didn't notice. If anyone's gonna deny me. Well, I'd say diabetes is a chronic and incurable disease and is the most common metabolic disease. However, diabetes alone does not include disease as one entity but more disease conditions that share common characteristics, and of them is the most significant, most frequently increased blood glucose level. And it is caused by an absolute or relative lack of insulin. Therefore, insulin resistance, increased glucose production or action of anti-insulin hormones. Of course, there are also significant damages due to diabetes. So, damage to the vital organs, we all know that, always many react to the kidneys, of course the retina as well, but there are also blood vessels and peripheral nerves. These are all things, and we've heard that, of course, diabetes usually occurs in chronic renal insufficiency and blindness. Statistics, as we've heard from the board president, are devastating. If there are 316 thousand in our country, there are those who suffer from diabetes, then that really speaks for itself enough. And in the world, the situation is what it is, 150 million, the projections are that 380 million over the next 20 years, and worryingly, of course, with us is also that the last 5 years have increased the number of patients by 50%. It's really disturbing, but it's another problem bigger than the number of type 2 patients in type 2 diabetes 40% doesn't know there is, and it carries at least one complication. So it certainly says that it is necessary to do something without talking about mortality. Although both mortality and in this sense is also established, it must be mentioned because I think they are making a great deal of effort, to monitor the size of the diabetes problem itself, the National Register CroDiabNET has been established, and the legal obligation is to report from all levels of health care, therefore in this register. Which of course this one shows these results that we are now witnessing. The proportion of diabetes in mortality, so it's the first in 10%, but we think it's underestimating, that's why, because of these complications, it's because of this moment, so it causes 8 times more heart disease or 6 times cerebrovascular disease. So there's a well-standardized mortality rate that's being monitored in Europe. In this sense, it says that similar values are recorded in neighbouring Slovenia, Denmark, Germany, Italy, and more values, for example. has Austria, Portugal, Hungary and Malta. So, in recent years after the increase over time, it has fallen again, and in the total number of hospitalisations of diabetes diagnosis in Croatia in 2006, for example, it took part with 1.4%, in general medicine 1.8%, all of these are data that we mention, which are not good. In these circumstances and given the public importance of diabetes in Croatia, a national programme for the health care of people with diabetes was adopted in 2007 with the aim of early detection of diseases in primary health care. Reduction of complications by 20%, 5 years after implementation of the programme by approaching the outcome of pregnancy in women with diabetes mellitus, in those in healthy women. The programme, which has a special emphasis on prevention, provides for early detection of diabetes in both a person over 50 years of age during preventive examinations and in all pregnant women at least once during pregnancy. And those at increased risk, therefore, have a positive history of complications in previous pregnancies immediately after pregnancy. Education of patients with the aim of preventing the development of chronic complications of diabetes is also envisaged. Education has been planned since childhood in terms of avoiding the risk of continuing diabetes. The entire organization is based on the Croatian 3D network model, functionally connected organisations, and activities include the evaluation of the programme using the diabetes register I mentioned. So in these circumstances comes this resolution on diabetes, which in its introduction makes everything clear. It proposes that I re-propose all relevant institutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Social Welfare, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Croatian Institute of Health, the Croatian Institute of Public Health to all health institutions of economic operators, the media, the services for diabetes to take all appropriate steps from the part-line of their responsibility in preventing early detection and treatment including rehabilitation in order to reduce the number of patients. Others thus provide support for organization but also promote healthy lifestyles. Each of these 14 points mentioned in the Resolution could be considered in a special way but I would particularly refer to the 4th point where it says and what was mentioned at the the thematic session very clearly that public information in the transmission of information on diabetes and chronic non-infectious diseases and ways of avoiding the risk of early detection and treatment of these diseases is encouraged. It was very picturesquely depicted by one of Professor Metelko's most renting names as inadmissible that at 11 o'clock in the evening an ad was made determined where certain sweets such as those mayburgers, burgers, etc. That's one example that's inadmissible. I would further mention point 11 that says, and in that part, the president of the Mr. Drlje patient association appeared, so each patient is given equal availability of mandatory treatment procedures, equal care, assistance regardless of the economic situation or social status. Namely, there have been talks about aids used by diabetes, and in this sense these aids have been significant and will certainly further improve this area so that everyone can have the same thing in this regard. Finally, I can say that by adopting this Resolution on Diabetes, the Republic of Croatia joins the activities and recommendations of the World Health Organization and the European Union in which they are taken to combat diabetes. It is well mentioned that in 2006 the European Parliament adopted a Declaration on Diabetes. Therefore, in the implementation of the activities and measures contained in the Resolution, the risk of disease will be reduced and early detection, treatment and rehabilitation will be stimulated, which will positively reflect population health and will also reduce the number of patients and deaths of diabetes and for the same reasons will be supported by the Croatian Democratic Community Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75018	Thank you. Ms. Biljana Borzana's SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75019	Dear colleagues and colleagues, at first I can say that anyone who understands themselves in diabetes and not just health care workers but basically all of us, because each of us has one of the family or in a close circle of friends who have this severe disease, can sign any word of this Resolution. From 14 points 13, it starts with a word to enable, secure, take, promote, encourage. So it is clear that such a document aims to improve the action on the problem, the public-health problem called diabetes, and also to highlight the problems. Some figures just today and heard, they are not random, 190 million people in the world, the World Health Organization assumes or plans to be about 330 million by 2025. Two hundred thousand patients, on every newly discovered one who doesn't know he has that disease. So the figures are inexorably saying it's a modern-day disease, a disease that comes from today's way of life. The mistake of a diet full of carbohydrates, let's say lay sugar, lack of physical activity, obesity, and age of humanity, four main reasons, of which these first three are negative, age is something that should be nice and which is a positive flow of progress of civilization, but the responsibility of every society is to make age more beautiful and quality. As far as the physical activity of the Republic of Croatia holds very poor average of most countries, only 10% of the population is physically active. At the level of obesity, we are in an infamous 5th place in Europe, which says that in any case emergency measures are needed to be, and I primarily mean public-health actions in order to affect the quality of life as much as possible but also the quality of society. By ignoring, not knowing, and not caring, the number of patients is growing, as are the number of complications of those who are ill. Health professionals, associations deal with this problem but professional articles are not for the general public. We health care professionals can write many professional articles and read them among themselves but I would point out what Professor Hebrang said on behalf of the Committee, the importance of the media. In fact, you know that a newspaper or a single donation on television will see more people than a healthcare professional will include more people than a healthcare professional will cover throughout his entire working life. That's why I think it can be a very big role for the media in that positive sense that it promotes a healthy lifestyle to point to this problem, of course not in a way that scares people about how it looks like a man with diabetes complications but positive data, say the type that Diabetes Melitus decreases in 20 to 70% of cases in physically active people, but also other benefits are physical activity in terms of reducing obesity, reducing cardiovascular diseases, reducing cancer. So all these data can be shown as positive that up to 30, 40% decreases the frequency of these diseases if people are less threatening and are physically active. And in that sense, I call here on behalf of the SDP club to say so to the pie articles, easily readable or contributions to TV, the newspapers include to make the number of patients and the number of complications more significant. As I said at the beginning of every word of the resolution, we can sign it, but it still comes down to what was done and not what was written. And I'm going to say some of the information that's been done, because, unfortunately, so far, practice in some cases doesn't give way to trust. For example. Last year, the budget rebalance of the obesity prevention fund was reduced by half. So this is about the real desire for the Croatian public, or the Croatian government, to be included primarily in order to improve these indicators that I and my predecessors spoke of. Also in the hospital "Vuk Vrhovec" as a headquarters for diabetes whose model was copied in the world, we also heard this in the introduction on behalf of the board, it is connected with the Clinical Hospital "Mercur". The system is disrupted, the quality of management of patients with diabetes is significantly reduced, waitings are prolonged, the number of diabetic doctors has been reduced. So, something that we had excellently, what was recognized in the world in the reform of healthcare so-called health care. Health reform has unfortunately broken down to save which kuna. What's being saved and how much it's saved is also very disputable, but even if there's less savings, I don't think our profits should be ahead of the interests of a sick man. So we in the SDP think that's not how it's done, so it's one thing to write and another to work. And in terms of what I said was important, I call on the minister although there is currently no one from the ministry, but reviewing the decision to merge Wolf Vrhovec and Mercury Hospitals, and if knowledge of the current practice does not happen, the SDP will, when it comes to power, return what in the world of diabetes has proven excellent. So we're going to separate those two hospitals because the life and health of the individual comes first. So, I'm afraid that this resolution is one of the examples that will remain at a more declarative level, and in practice it will work the opposite, but in any case I can express here hope that some things will improve and that everything will not remain a dead letter on paper. And since it's a positive step, the SDP club will support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75020	Thank you. HNS Representatives' Club, HSU's Ms. Danica Hursa's representative. Here you go. Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75021	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Borzan incorrectly stated that the quality of care was reduced and that profits were ahead of the interest of a sick man. That's incorrect. So I think the main moment is to maintain a stable health system. It's easy to kick ass, dear fellow, but we're gonna do this or that, but if it hadn't started reforming the health system, it would have collapsed. That's my responsibility. And what you're gonna do, I don't think you're gonna get a chance to do what you're gonna do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75022	My colleagues, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75023	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Proposer of Resolution, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that the HNS and HSU pensioners will support the proposal for a resolution on diabetes because we estimate that they will have positive effects, of course, on human health, and then ultimately we will order some and economic effects. There have been a lot of words here about diabetes, so let me also in a very simple way just because of the education and education I say a few words about the diabetes itself. Food is digested to sugar called glucose. Glucose travels by blood to cells and produces energy from glucose for the body. Insulin is necessary for the entry of glucose into the cell, a hormone that secretes the pancreas’s gland. If you do not produce enough insulin or insulin that does not work, glucose does not enter your cells and it grows in your blood. This disorder is called diabetes or diabetes. Let all doctors forgive it may be too high for them, but there are a lot of people who don't know this basic thing about diabetes. Practice knows more types of diseases. Sugar disease Type 2, Type 1, diabetes mellitus in pregnancy and other types of diabetes. A few words about type 2 diabetes are initially used to treat Type 2 diabetes successfully with diet, increase body activity, and, if necessary, tablets. We at the HNS Club, the HSU in this section have one comment or question and we ask, and it's about this type of disease, and the question is: Why do people with disease at the beginning not have the right to obtain quality control of blood sugar levels through recipes, but rather to finance it from their own pocket? We think that in these stages of the disease it is very important to control the problem in a quality way, first because of the health of the people themselves, which will thus alleviate, resolve, reduce or keep them at a higher level for the longer time. This approach will ultimately cost the community less, because we will certainly have fewer people whose disease will escalate or arrive at the insulin-taking stage. Type 2 diabetes is already the most common form of diabetes and is subject to this resolution. It's mostly from an older age. Sometimes it is incorrectly called old age diabetes, but the increased frequency of obesity moves the age limit to anything earlier, so it is possible and increasingly common in young people. The increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes has in the first row, as we have already said, people who are overweight. The risk is particularly high if the thickness is particularly expressed in the waist area, if the blood pressure and increased fat in the blood is increased. Heritage is also an important factor in increasing the risk of type 2 diabetes. If any of the ancestors or relatives in the family had diabetes, the frequency of their occurrence is significantly higher. In type 2 diabetes, the ability to secrete insulin was generally maintained at least at the beginning, but the organism is resistant to its action and the insulin fails to perform its role. This disorder is the underlying cause of type 2 diabetes, and we call it insulin resistance. In the beginning, type 2 diabetes is usually successfully treated with diet, increased physical activity and, if necessary, tablets. Insulin secretion in the pancreas may become insufficient over the years, so insulin treatment is necessary. It may not be easy to say a few sentences about type 1 diabetes. It occurs most often in younger people, although it can begin at any age. In this type of diabetes there is no insulin because the pancreas does not produce it. This is due to an inflammatory reaction from the body to its own pancreas cells. The cause of the development of type 1 diabetes is still unknown, but it is likely a combination of hereditary proclivity and environmental factors such as viruses that are triggers to start the disease. Type 1 diabetes cannot be prevented. Less than 10% of people with diabetes fall into this type 1. In type 1 diabetes, it is important to know that the use of insulin recovery is the only medicine. Sometimes during the first year of the disease, there is a period of partial recovery in which the insulin requirement is reduced or even fully withdrawn. We call it the symbolic and the honeymoon because it's always fleeting. Your doctor will adjust your treatment during this time, but this should not induce the delusion that it is a form of diabetes that does not require insulin treatment. We at the HNS club, the HSU, stand at the point that in this disease that takes more and more wave, here's the data they said, the numbers are spoken, so the 50% increase in this disease is more than the alarm. So, because it is taking more and more of a wave of extreme importance is the education of the entire population, and that was what we were talking about here today. We, like all of you, think we should start from kids to adults. In this regard, the role of the education system is extremely important, from education to diet for our least and of course media that can clearly be the most effective prevention with the profession. We believe that, in this context, the proposal for this resolution will also act, noting that in the budgetary paragraphs of this situation, too, it must certainly be supported in the sense that the items are not diminished but moreover, a source of funding needs to be found and any effort to stop this disease or even better, should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75024	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Hursa incorrectly stated that diabetes patients do not have the right to do whatever is necessary for quality control, treatment and control of diabetes. That's an incorrect colleague. At this thematic session, Mr. Drlje's representatives of the patient associations have just expressed their praise that the possibilities are extremely high. And I personally have witnessed for years, so today the possibilities of diagnostic strips, chains, all the other machines, have helped absolutely... to all possible therapeutics. [[You don't understand.]] I join you in this thinking therefore that it is necessary to double the effort in terms of education and what the resolution itself says in its part, but this part in no way stands because this moment in any case works. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75026	HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDSSB advocates' club will accept the proposal for a resolution on diabetes, clearly for all the reasons that were ordered in the debates before me. It is true that budget items need to find a share of funds or funds that would certainly improve, above all, the prevention of type 2 diabetes or so on. acquired or elderly diabetes, which occurs after this juvenile phase or juvenile diabetes, is type 1, so youth diabetes, unlike the one that occurs and whose trigger or trigger is pregnancy. So today we are talking exclusively about type 2 diabetes obtained in the Republic of Croatia. According to statistics, 316000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia suffer from diabetes. That's exactly 7.4%, and it's estimated that in developed Western countries it's about 10%. Since there are, I'm not going to say latent types, but those who don't even know that they have diabetes to say in a folk dictionary, and given these 10% and this difference is obviously still somewhere around 100,000 of those who will only have the first complications of diabetes to show and indicate that they have diabetes, unfortunately. The case, with all these reasons why diabetes develops, is as Mr. Hebrang stated, so physical inactivity, excessive weight, smoking, consumption of alcoholic beverages, mostly severe alcoholic beverages, increased blood pressure and fat. There are other reasons nobody here talked about today, which is stress. A case of a man, a doctor, a fellow pediatrician who did not recognize meningitis in a girl's brother's daughter and who after complications produced by this meningitis received diabetes. Case two men in custody, not in custody, but incarcerated. Later, the court procedure found him innocent. He got diabetes in prison. 300,000 unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, 80,000 those who work and do not receive salaries, masses of dissuased and powerless sometimes in front of the independent judiciary that makes the judgments that also contribute to stressful situations in our society, in our country. And believe me, these situations also give birth to type two diabetes. How do you explain that from 2004 to 2009, the number of people with diabetes increased by 50% and the population increased by the same or smaller? How do you explain that fact? Perhaps increased efforts to detect diabetes? But believe me, there is also a good share of this stressful situation in which our citizens, our people live, and from day to day experience what they experience to be absolutely safe because of stressful situations, and perhaps metabolically or in any way you want to find it scientifically difficult, but it appears in an increased number of people suffering from type two diabetes. Now that we're talking about prevention, whether prevention is just weight loss. So, reducing the introduction into the body of carbohydrates, and then reducing alcohol consumption, non-smoking, physical activity. So, basically life is moving, and moving is life. Or we can also contribute in another way by just acting as the Council of the Republic of Croatia, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to correct, correct and improve the living conditions of our people, our citizens. And this proportionally occurs the incidences of diabetes are just going the other way around. We have no improvement but a deterioration in living conditions. And then we're surprised that since 2004, interestingly in 2004, the arrival of this government to power has increased the number of diabetes patients by 50%. I don't want to be politicized so someone doesn't get me wrong and accuse this government of this. However, coincidence is imposed on itself, analogy is imposed on itself. Now about the diabetes itself and the type two diabetes and its complications and what Mr. Milinkovic doesn't have here, he says he's got insurance for the diabetics, and the other day he met me in a hospital circle in Slavonski Brod, the patient won't tell him his name and who begged me 20, 30 kn to give it to him because he asked for the county and the town of Brod and the municipality from which he lives directly near Brod to grant him the funds to buy him insulin. He's on supplies. He's got 1,000 kuna defense supplies, so now I don't know why he's looking, is he right about what he's looking for, or is he asking for it out of a whim or what. He's a young man. He's 39 years old, 40 years old. Heart attack 8 times the incidence, frequency. So, stroke six times, damage to the blood vessels mostly capillaries. No one mentions the numerous amputations that we surgeons do because of advanced diabetes, diabetic so-called. feet. Then, blindness and failure or reduced kidney function to speak in a folk dictionary, not medically. Treatment or curative is multidisciplinary. So, from neurological, interstitious, surgical, occult and orthopaedic activities that have been constantly dealing with these to say most of these 316000 patients and registered diabetics. So the complications are very serious and they were spoken of here by colleagues, so I wouldn't repeat them. Of course, aside from this effort, the really great effort that doctors from these disciplines are making, and others that I'm not saying, that I wouldn't forget or hurt someone really needs to really care and help the wider community, so we here who are discussing the standards that this disease that's caused me to say mostly as nobody's fault, and it's causing huge damage. I'm even talking about, not just the complications that occur in patients, but the economic damages that occur. And what do you think when a man amputates a leg he's disabled forever, he's not able to attract. And one, and the other, and the blindness. 100% disability due to blindness. When calculated, so what the state singles out in such cases from treatment, to the consequences that the patient has due to diabetes and complications of diabetes, then it's much less to invest in everything here in the resolution. So, both in education and in warning and on media one enhanced approach and diabetes and complications of diabetes. So I don't think it's a problem in the future budget of the Republic of Croatia to find and secure these funds. That's why the HDSSB club is just for this proposal for a resolution on diabetes. I think we will actually be unanimous in this, so all clubs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75028	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we heard, I'll repeat diabetes is a threat to global health, health and infectious diseases like AIDS, tuberculosis, etc. We've heard various data today, statistics, and I'm going to add that as a cause of death in fourth place in an increasing number of developed countries. And it's estimated that we have about 300 thousand people with this disease, with a tendency to increase, and here we see, because of precisely the factors that actually can't say etiological factors, but risk factors. In 5 years, the number has increased by 64 thousand, so it is estimated that somewhere in 20 years every 10 people will suffer from diabetes. And of course, the consequences are terrible, so every 8 seconds someone dies of diabetes, or severe complications resulting from diabetes, these are from stroke, diabetic neuropathy, coronary artery diseases of peripheral blood vessels, kidney failure, amputation, blindness, etc. Of course, I support this resolution, or measures from a resolution that should reduce on one side the risk of disease development, then early detection and treatment of disease, and also preventive measures that are very important for all non-infectious and infectious diseases. Diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, which is of course... Diabetes, an average of 8 years from the start of the disease, and, of course, success in the treatment of this disease depends on how early we're going to diagnosis, of course, as well as continuous patient education, which is why I repeat prevention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The pandemic of diabetes is 2 mostly conditioned most often is actually in close connection with the pandemic of obesity, because we said from the beginning that obesity is one of the most important factors for the formation of diabetes. In fact, the discussion would be the most maintained in prevention and good examples. All obesity prevention activities, which is one of the risks, or factors for the development of diabetes, should be coordinated precisely from one centre, in this way actually would be more structured. However, intersectoral work and cooperation are also needed, especially when we talk about this problem, it is co-operation and two ministries, it is the Ministry of Health, or the Ministry of Education, not only on this subject, but on all topics relating to preventive actions. So I can say that such intersectoral cooperation, or need, is constantly being discussed, and then most often everything falls on the back of one sector. For example. in the counties we have established advice on health, but I am not sure whether they have come to terms with the real role they should play, even in this intersectoral cooperation, because public health services can implement measures, and are likely to implement, but the question now is whether education is involved, which is why I represent that we should work as much as possible on this intersectoral cooperation, because in fact very often something is also inconclusive, i.e. depravity, and the damage was a good idea. Of course, something could otherwise be planned, i.e. to make continuous preventive measures, which is the point of prevention, for the action plan, i.e. for the action plan, in particular now, the prevention of obesity needs, of course, material resources. Prevention of chronic non-infectious diseases for all diseases is mostly the same, and this is lifestyle changes. And when we look at what he can do in prevention, we have to educate, educate, for example. children, parents are harder to change, but if in schools, and doctors in schools work very often is exactly the problem in parents that, that they do not accept the very seriousness of this problem, and therefore should work and in this direction, essentially educate even more and parents, because it is very difficult to implement, if one link in the chain is missing. It would be good to establish, establish and advise for nutritionism, with nutritionists trained, nurses, kinesologists, etc., of course I repeat cross-cutting means with close cooperation with others. As I said at first, physical activity is one of the very important factors for the creation, inactivity for the development of diabetes, so I must also say that physical education in lower classes must have a specific programme, also in higher classes, and not in children, which very often we have an example of the ball, to play between two fires, and therefore, because there is no, there is no hall. I can also say that in high school there is not often physical education, and there is a special story in colleges or high schools. Do we have a sense of body culture, or need for exercise? I have to mention here the city of Dubrovnik where we introduced actually the program to choose the sport that works on it. I am also of the opinion that we should constantly work to raise awareness of food, at the same time as the local community and the economy, and we all need to ensure that healthy foods are actually available. I'm not so sure that in those machines that are located in schools, I still think that you can find products that aren't, they don't go in that direction, they don't go in favour of obesity prevention. Someone's got to take care of that, too. I'm going back to those health tips that should actually play a role. I'd still like to mention a few good examples, which are, for example, during systematic examinations, they count the body mass index using those tables, i.e. the parameters isolate the threat, the threat of children, parents are given a movement, diet, and ordered for monthly examinations. However, my knowledge is that my parents are also careless, not to be offended, but they do not understand clearly enough, they do not understand the problem that can be generated from this obesity. Why don't we include patronage sisters, that's one of the suggestions I've been thinking about. As far as cooperation is concerned, when we are doing public health activities, of course there should be cooperation with many, including media that can of course promote healthy lifestyles. In particular, as a local community in Dubrovnik, we pay public needs programmes in health care, and we especially support a healthy city association that actually promotes healthy lifestyles. We also promote through marking, for example. European Week of Movement, or World Heart Day, etc., etc. Finally, I would say that right now, a proposal for a programme is being put in place, a project is being prepared at the Council for Prevention and Reduction of Overweight to apply to the IPA competition for cross-border co-operation between Croatia and Montenegro. And I can finally say that even though the cost of treatment is 10% of the Croatian health budget, more than 60% of those treated are not satisfactory diabetes regulation. This is why I was talking about prevention today, especially two main factors, which is nutrition, or physical activity. And let's start today with the motto – Spend calories instead of gasoline. Congratulations on your initiative for this resolution. It is up to all of us to spend it directly or indirectly. And let's not let it be a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75030	Thank you. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the resolution should be supported because it is an excellent idea of the Health and Social Care Committee. The explanation we have heard is logical, clear, very thorough and of course it is good for the Croatian Parliament to join a number of other world parliaments that have adopted this resolution. A disease that carries more than 10 lives a day in Croatia requires certainly a lot more engagements at all levels and each government is obliged to implement effective strategies, effective policies for prevention and control of diabetes. Scientists ten years ago had certain predictions about the number of patients, but the disease dramatically exceeded those estimates, not only in the world, so I think in the world, so Croatia and Croatia are also affected today, I would say by the explosion of diabetes, and diabetes is globally looking at one of the most expensive diseases in the world. It is estimated that up to 10% of the health budget is spent on care of diabetics. In Croatia, the amount reportedly exceeds 3 billion kuna. This resolution for me is a very important document, but I would also say that it is a very binding document that even if we could, and we can't, we have nothing to add. The resolution should provide a guarantee and give importance to all public awareness-raising activities on this disease and should be signed, I would say all relevant, all interested entities to take activities that are largely related to what is the basis and the essence of the fight with diabetes, which is prevention. And in fact, this resolution talks about it in a number of points. So, as I said to the resolution itself, there's nothing to add, except maybe that we at least adopted it earlier. I wish we had brought it before the health reform. Why do I say that? So because health reform in the health care segment of patients with diabetes mellitus has taken a major step backwards. In this segment, as we all know very well, Croatia had one of the best health care because our patients had rights, well these rights are formal today, but they had rights and treatment as few people in the world. So, free complete prevention, diagnostics, therapy, but what's very important was that they had access. So, compared to what we have almost available today without waiting, right? So let's ask ourselves what the ministry has done with Wolf Supreme University Clinic, it seems to me that this is a real opportunity. So, in addition to commending the resolution mentioning this problem which has largely taken a step back, as I said, in protecting these patients. University clinic "Vuk Vrhovec" was the only institution, I would say comprehensively for the health care of people with diabetes at national and world level, which includes preventive and therapeutic forms based on national and international knowledge. Thanks to the health reform we've had, it's not. So the University Hospital "Vukov Vrhovec" was the World Health Organization reference centre in the renomination. Now the work of the reference centre is weakened, which weakens the overall national network, and thanks to the disastrous moves of "Vuk Vrhovec" it is difficult to regain this extremely important status. The only institution that worked on the principles... Health care, recommended by the World Health Organization as the only appropriate approach to diabetes, was "Vuk Vrhovec". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thanks to me, I'd say health reform isn't any more. So, "Wolf Vrhovec" as a Croatian model of healthcare was in some way our brand, was our export product that was implemented in many countries of the world starting in '81. years in Malta and beyond. So, "Vuk Vrhovec" was a co-operation institution of the World Health Organization, the last time it was appointed as a co-operative institution until 2012. And as things stand now, thanks to the health reform it will no longer be possible. Doctors and nurses at this university clinic were extremely motivated and educated, active in scientific work, quoted in numerous scientific journals, 26 magistrates and doctoral doctors, thanks to health reforms that we can expect? So, I find it unacceptable for someone with a feather move to destroy the efforts of generations and practically our only export brand in that segment. Today, it is evident that those who were saying that too many ambiguities and dangers were right in the proposal to reorganize some hospitals. So, compared to the University Hospital "Wolf Vrhovec" to continue with it when very heated controversy about whether it should be done or not. Service level, i.e. Health care for diabetic patients is no longer different and those who speak differently simply do not tell the truth. The waiting time for patients is much longer which, of course, is not strange if we consider everything that happened at the university clinic, given the fact that there was a break-up of top-level personnel and that there is no longer working as many doctors as it used to. So the relationship to the University Hospital of Vuk Vrhovac is unusual, very unusual, almost makes you think it's a personal transaction with someone or something, because there's nothing rational about it, there's nothing logical and there's nothing good about it in the long term. Destroying the national network of protection and care such a large number of patients who are growing from day to day, which cost a tremendous amount of society, without developing regional centres at the same time, that prevention and care in all parts of the Republic of Croatia has not been strengthened, only someone who does not understand this system can. Not to say he went astray in health care. So, the conclusion of the resolution is excellent, it should be supported, I will personally support it but it opens up some of the problems we talked about again, so we put them under the rug a little bit, but I don't think that story should be over. And for some next government that I'm appealing to right now to get things back to the beginning, to put things back where they were because it's in the interest of citizens or patients who have diabetes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75032	Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Biljana Borzana.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75033	My colleague Jerkovic, you were talking about reform. The reform literally translated means conversion, it does not say whether it is a positive change or a negative one. In this case, unfortunately, it appears that the reform has negative consequences for people who are sick or who are going to suffer from diabetes. The beginnings of this transformation were actually seen in the 1990s when HDZ took over and then took over the ratio of employees and pensioners at the time was 2.5 times the difference of more employees than pensioners, in the meantime we have almost equalising employees and pensioners, so there are a lot of unemployed people who can get enough money out of their wages to make health work well. As a result, certain reform decisions are made, or transformations, that carry with them may save minimally but certainly at the heart of the patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75034	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75035	Dear colleagues, about what you said almost there's nothing to add, I absolutely agree with everything. Health reform, I think, is an eclectic example of the gap between the executive and those whose interests that executive authority should represent. In a reform that should be a long-term solution to the health system of Croatia, neither the citizens nor the profession had an absolute right to vote. The mass of reforms that took place over the knee, without consensus with neither the profession nor the politics, actually could bring no good. We had in part an attempt to patch up the budget gaps that the health care was objectively creating. The reform was all but structural and this shows the results today, and what kind of citizens they felt on their backs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75036	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75037	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I join the greetings of this Resolution, I don't know if the representatives of the Ministry of Health have been invited, the Ministry of Education, if they're not too bad they haven't come, because our Resolution makes sense if the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education of this point that we as a Parliament are proposing to operate in practice. Because without the operationalisation of everything that we say in our resolution, this means that as a legislative body, we show responsibility in raising awareness of the Croatian society in the problem of diabetes, so implementation is crucial. This is the third Declaration, the resolution was first in this mandate about how I remember malignancies, the second one was tied to the cancer of the neck of the womb, this third one dedicated to one of the key public-health problems of the whole world gives me the idea to commit our Health Committee to check every two years what happened on the basis of the declarations we made, to see if the shifts were made because that's the only way our declaration will make sense. We have heard some figures about the problem of diabetes and the latest report of the World Diabetes Federation is even more devastating, namely, they estimate that in 2011, there are 300 million people suffering from diabetes and that in just one generation, that number will increase to 500 million. It is particularly warning that the World Diabetes Federation says that the main problem of this epidemic will feel poor countries and countries with medium incomes where Croatia certainly belongs, thus affecting the public to pay even more attention to this problem. It is an amazing fact that in 2010 the entire world spent $380 billion of American dollars on diabetes and diabetes treatment. And the estimate is that by 2030 that amount will be 500 billion dollars. We heard today on several occasions, and that's what's particularly important in this debate that 70% of type 2 diabetics are a threat. And that in 70% of Type 2 diabetes cases, it's due to obesity. Therefore, we automatically see what needs to be done to avoid what happened in Croatia, so in 5 years, a 50% increase in diabetics. We all know that in 2009, the cause of death in Croatia of the majority of 52 thousand 414 dead people was precisely heart and blood vessels that are rarely caused by diabetes. However, what I would especially like to draw our attention to is that from 7 to 14 years already 12% of children are too difficult and 7% is already fat. This largely shows where the problem is and why we must be concerned about the trend that fat people grow by 11% in Croatia annually. Therefore, if we want to work effectively to prevent diabetes, then we need to work on prevention of obesity and obesity, and then it starts exactly why I miss the Ministry of Education today, so why it is necessary to introduce health education in schools, why it is necessary to change the way children eat in kindergartens and schools, why it is not enough to have two hours of physical education in schools, it actually doesn't turn out to be anything. Why should it be like that? In Sweden children in primary school have physical education every day, why should they install halls next to schools, because in this way we will prevent fat in the long term. In order for our declaration to make sense, she must have some kind of parameters. I would remind all of us and make a contribution to implementing this resolution in practice. By the way, another 1989. The World Health Organization has brought in one declaration, and Croatian doctors have also made a contribution to the declaration saying: "Aware of the fact that diabetes is a health problem throughout the world, and as a result of complications and leading cause of blindness, a large number of amputations of extremities, kidney failure, as well as a greater number of deaths due to complications to the cardiovascular system, experts of the World Health Organization bring this declaration, which warns of danger and encourages changes to such conditions. The general objectives of this declaration and then these resolutions should improve people with diabetes, and their quality and duty should bring their lives closer to the normal life expectancy of healthy people. Improve scientific research to prevent and treat diabetes and its complications." And that declaration has 16 chapters, as our resolution has 14 points. And what they suggest, therefore, is recommended to achieve a reduction in the number of patients with complications in the first five years of administration,... and kidneys by at least one third, the number of amputations per half, and the risk of increased mortality due to changes in the cardiovascular system. So that was '89. and it is proposed to monitor every two years to the extent that these indicators demonstrate the success of the application of the declaration. In this direction, I suggest that we, as a Parliament, propose a two-year evaluation of the application of our resolution, with certainly what I am talking about in health reform, I believe that a key role should be played in primary health care, a different way of financing family medicine doctors where they would be encouraged to introduce preventive programmes. And one program would be a safe program we called them in the River "Healthy Weight Loss Schools" where it would simply help citizens to reduce the risk of developing diabetes and heart and blood disease, while living longer, to work harder and to reduce health costs related to obesity and diabetes, estimated at 12% per year by the World Health Organization. You can imagine the amount of savings that could be used to treat some other diseases that are not treatable. Because in this case for diabetes by using physical activity, healthier diet and medicines available to a person can experience full age and live a better quality life than today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75038	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75039	I am pleased to mention this very check that our Health Committee will also check every two years what has been done with the implementation of the measures in this declaration. Because we are very often witnesses to come up with a variety of different and action plans. But we're wondering what's going on with fates, and it's actually somewhere at the end of 2010 as far as I know, the government has adopted an Action Plan on obesity and it's brought down to the local level, of course. But what's going on? Maybe the public health departments would like to do it, but I'd like to ask myself now, what about the health advice in the county? Because if these tips do not give priority to obesity in their programmes, then we ask ourselves what action plans are for. And that when you mentioned what you did in Rijeka, I would also say that I support what you said that you needed cooperation between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education absolutely. Because our program that we have introduced "Select Sports", our experience has even taken the Agency for Education and Education where it will be an auxiliary teaching tool for physical and health culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75040	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75041	Thank you, colleague Bonacci. You gave me a chance to say something I forgot, and that's also my proposal, so it's about a two-year evaluation. So, I would ask that here is the Health Committee tasked by the Ministry of Health to make an assessment of how many diabetics Croatia has at the moment and whether the number of diabetics that Croatia currently has is sufficient to treat them? I think I already know, after talking to my colleagues, that's not so, so it's urgent to create programs to refer doctors to specialization and training in the area of diabetes so that all patients who will continue to grow have adequate care.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75042	At 10.43, it was time to report a ten-minute hearing. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75043	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't think there'll really be any one of us MPs and MPs who won't support this resolution. Congratulations to both the chairman of the committee and the board members as well as to all colleagues who participated in the thematic debate on diabetes, and this debate has just resulted in this resolution. Today we have heard terrible numbers about 316 thousand who suffer from diabetes in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, it's more than 10 lives a day. The disease affected 6.1% of the working population in the Republic of Croatia between 18 and 65 years of age. However, what is very worrying is that there are 120,000 people in the Republic of Croatia who do not know that they suffer from diabetes. This really speaks of the binding appearance of this resolution, of our behaviour as well as of the prevention and proper evaluation of diabetes. In my county, the truth is there's also a lot of diabetes patients, but the number of diabetics is in short supply. What is worrying is that in the last decade we have a dramatic increase in the obesity and diabetes of type 2 concerning children and young people. I would apostrophe this in my debate because to respect the rights of children and young people to health and a healthy environment it is important to focus on the causes. In particular, this means that measures should be taken to promote, healthy eating habits and a healthy lifestyle in the family, at school, in the community as well as a healthy environment. The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that all countries recognise the rights of the child to enjoy the highest level of health. The Council of Europe Assembly calls on all Member States to take urgent measures to protect children and young people from the consequences of obesity and type 2 diabetes, which is precisely to promote healthy eating habits, a healthy lifestyle and a healthy environment. You can put yourself in that position when the child receives insulin two to three times a day. These parents are really sensitized and anyone around who sees the life of such a child, what a regime such a child is really worrying and in some ways encourages us to think about it. Healthy diet, it means from the beginning of life, from birth, which means promoting breastfeeding, promoting food without fat, food without additives, without chemicals, improving kindergarten, school meals, reducing pressure on children by advertising on television. On TV, we often see advertising of any chips, apples, potatoes, etc., advertising fast food so-called. food and other things. Food should indeed be regarded as a diet, not as a substitute for meeting other needs and problems. They're known as the so-called so-called. The triggers for more food consumption, stress, negative emotions, sadness, anger. So everything that's on the table is offered constantly bites and eats, and it's always offered to children. The need is indicated to improve education both for sport and for physical activity with full participation of all of us in society, which means to open our playgrounds to children to play as much sport as possible, not to keep these playgrounds closed during the weekend, during Saturday and Sunday. The child’s threat is often stigmatized and discriminated by peers and believe them experience terrible stress leading to depression and then again we are at one beginning, not to mention what is happening in the endocrine system whose disorder leads to early puberty, which is another new stress for this young population. There is a dramatic increase in the degree of obesity and diabetes in type 2 throughout Europe, as well as in Croatia. The epidemic is linked to a global increase in food accessibility and a reduction in activity, but in the primary school in the Republic of Croatia, 12% of primary school children have an excessive weight, 5% of which is a consequence because 31% of children are not engaged in physical activity between 11 and 15 years of age. According to the World Health Organization, 90% of the population of the Republic of Croatia consumes fewer fruits and vegetables than the recommended amount, 61.4% of the people who are too overweight are in the ninth place in the world, and we heard, we are 5th in Europe. When we get to diabetes, we hear about all the consequences that can happen on the cardiovascular system, from the stroke, from the heart attack, from the stroke, from the ischaemic brain, etc. However, according to European Union data, half of children have a higher body weight or are at risk. Every year the number increases by 400,000. 3 million students in the European Union are classified as a threat. The number increases by 85,000 every year. And in the end, I really want to point out that the hardest thing to do is change habits. We're not moving, we're sitting, we're having a bad diet, we're forgetting processes in nature, and we're being imitated by children. The result is poor psychophysical health to diabetes, and I really believe that this resolution will contribute to empowering all of us to increase the number of diabetes patients. I will return to the beginning, the dramatic growth of children with diabetes is, and don’t forget that these children are not helped by pills such as those of elderly people who await their age but are on insulin two to three times a day. Let's imagine what their life is like every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75044	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75045	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Hebrang, who is here, has submitted this resolution on behalf of the board, colleagues and colleagues. So I think all the resolutions in history had their significance in the way they were being implemented and what results they had given. Some according to the method of implementation are also remembered, there are various resolutions that are not to mention now, others remembered by the bad ones, and some remain just a letter on paper. I hope this one won't be. Just today on the TV calendar was information that Eva Fitzgerald, a singer in the '90s, had been cut off because of her diabetes, both her legs. Thus, it is a disease that is certainly significant in the world. All this information that these fellow councilmen who are with it today, MPs but who certainly know a lot more about it and talked about it than I do. Thus, diabetes or diabetes mellitus affects us about 4 to 6% of the population in Croatia. I therefore believe that the adoption of this Resolution on Diabetes also brings the Republic of Croatia to one more active activity and one activity that will certainly bring greater benefit to all those who have suffered from this disease and even more to those who suffer and who do not know it. Many obligations of institutions are also visible from those activities in Resolution. Here is also mentioned the Government and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Science and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Croatian Institute of Public Health, Health institutions, economic operators, media, various associations etc. Therefore, it is evident that this resolution really involves a broad diapason of institutions and people who should deal with this problem. I'll say something about talking to people who deal with this problem and their thinking. The problem of one greater inclusion and participation is being raised primarily by the state in support of the implementation of this programme. First, doctors of primary health care who are already working on an operational screening are also tasked with seeking these diabetics in their population and taking care of them. What they told me and what stops them from doing this job better is the lack of information programs, the issue of better data availability that... patients suffering from diabetes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is one segment that should certainly be fixed in that primary health care in order to work better on this part. The other thing is a higher education of patients on diet, sugar control. It is precisely this control of sugar that takes place with these particular apparatus and strips normally so that each such review segment should also provide specific means for these instruments, for those strips. Because here's an example of a man who had 28 sugars and normally didn't assume or show any signs of disease at all. But in one such measurement, it was normal for a quality way to be restored. The question of weight measurement, height etc. all of this requires one financial support because it is also a sort of supplemental business. Therefore, this segment should also be treated differently. Third is the education of patients by family doctors, healthy lifestyle, non-smoking, proper diet, exercise, etc. There was much more quality talk here about it, the regularity of walking, etc. All of this should be conducted by this education whether at the level of the local boards of urban districts, the form of certain lectures because the presence of this disease that does not signal that it is developing is located in each of our environments. And that is why I believe that for such activities, both the state and the ministry should have certain resources to ensure that they can be carried out as such. That's about the 11th point I think that's what he's talking about. The point that the media puts them in a position to be more significant, and what emphasizes the resolution itself, I think it's also one of the important factors. Media education is the first, I consider the first drug available to everyone. In particular, this refers to the city population. I think there's one big problem, one life-form. So TV, I don't know a computer, driving a car from work to work, little or no movement. This particular population is the most prone to developing this diabetes. And that is why it is important to warn and educate why this way of life creates a risk for them to suffer from diabetes. I just think that the media, as Dr. Borzan said in the introduction, is one of the educational shows, is much more effective than often, and one hard work on the discovery of family medicine doctors or others who are dealing with this problem. That's why the media are here and highlighted as such. But I think it takes them in some way not to say and stimulate and encourage that these emissions, educational emissions or some contributions to this disease are as much and as quality as they are done. And in the end, I tried with these two significant segments. So these primary health care and the media show that I think and one of the meanings of everyone in the management of this disease. The Croatian Parliament will surely accept this motion for a resolution organised by the Health Committee, which is full of congratulations for this and with a great desire for this resolution to come to life. I think I also declare it and I can say that I will also vote for it as such because it is certainly both quality and well made. And what I said at the very beginning will be important if the results are positive, and for that is certainly a great possibility and because it includes a large part of the institutions that should work on it and which will make such and certainly great contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75046	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75047	Dear colleague, I am not sure that this resolution will change life in Croatia, reduce diabetes in Croats, reduce obesity. Let my fellow citizen's family forgive me for bringing him up here in the Parliament. A few days ago, Darko Benke died who had diabetes, who had become blinded by this diabetes, and several times in this booth, he himself warned of an extremely low addition to blindness in Croatia to those who were sick and who were lower than in Albania. I propose, and I will support this resolution in order to prevent this from happening, but I don't believe that it will change life. And I propose to the Committee on Health but also to this Parliament to bring forward a proposal for a resolution on hunger in Croatia because we have almost a million pensioners who are only hungry and unable to live. We have 350,000 unemployed who are also hungry. We've already got 80,000 workers who don't work, they don't get paid, they're absolutely hungry. We have about 300 workers of Đakovština who addressed this government for help almost a month and a half ago, the government that had 32% stake in Đakovština, in the former PIK Đakovo and who still have no answer and are seeking their rights. They demand labour rights, they demand that this state settle what they have invested in their work and in their working relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75048	I didn't interrupt you, Your Honor, but I will next time because you didn't stick to the subject. The first part you stuck to the topic, the second part you didn't, because it's not on the agenda. You'll have to stick to the subject. ... Your Honor, you can't argue with me. [[Intruder Vinkovic, you don't understand.]] I'm telling you you didn't stick to it. Here is a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go. Please don't throw it away. [[Intruder Vinkovic: What you don't like is another thing.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75049	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, respected colleague Vinkovic, given the part of the replica that was not related to this, I would still say to you that the first part in which you said I believe that the resolution as a paper normally cannot be resolved, but that the incentive that a large number of institutions of economic operators of family medicine etc., through this resolution solves a part of the problem that is being found, and one of these problems is certainly people, personally and I also knew this man, who, and this resolution is saying, that in time and in the beginning, those who are suffering from diabetes are found in the beginning, and that in this way try to stop them and to contain that disease, or to keep in the frames that there are not the most catastrophic consequences, as I said lighting or what I said in the introduction as this singer Eva Fitzgerald experienced that both her legs had been cut off. The resolution therefore has its purpose and purpose, but its implementation is certainly dependent, depending on many of the entities listed in that resolution, and I primarily believe that it is from these entities, both the government and the ministry through their ability to realise this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75050	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75051	Thank you very much. Comrade Bodakoš, you mentioned in your discussion that very important finances are, of course, I agree that treatment, and also preventive measures for diabetes, as we know 10% of the Croatian health budget is going to treat diabetes, and 60% of patients do not actually have satisfactory diabetes regulation. So I think you're right about these finances, but a better organisation could still contribute to a better outcome, or better pleasure in treating and preventing this disease. Like what? If the advisory facilities were to be a contractual obligation of the institute, for example for public health, then perhaps it would be more effective, because so far if it is not an obligation then nobody can be hired without the approval of the ministries. On the other hand, if there are funds, and there's approval, then it can't be employed for more than a year, if we're going to say for a certain time. On the third hand, if you don't have financial resources, then basically you can't, there's no employment indefinitely, and in the financial plans of the Institute, the regional self-government, specifically the county. And now if you have a guideline in the county that you need to cut planned expenditures, and then of course they have to be educated, then everything they've planned in the Public Health Service Action Plans should be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75052	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75053	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleagues of Tatjana, I'm sure with the means to get those who work on that part, and they're certainly not enough, that the issue of self-organization, organization of implementation, monitoring and detection, I think in that preventive part of the discovery of people, because I'm saying I mentioned an example of a man who had high sugar, and he didn't know it at all, and at the moment when it was found normal to regulate, that he had reached a normal level, and that he was no longer such a potential patient. But normally that this organization is working and what doctors of primary protection mention, it is enrolling in the unique patient register at the level of the Republic of Croatia, that it is one job and a big job that is normally not in, according to what these doctors are getting these chieftains, but yet they are doing it, however the question and the program that will be done, the additional programs that will immediately record it, are certainly one of the preventive parts and organisational parts, what you point out, to prevent this disease. And I think that in this part, there will certainly have to be something more recent and new, and normally in this part also the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and the Ministry of Health and the Government will play a decisive role, including with certain resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75054	Thank you. And finally, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75055	Thank you, Vice President. In view of the fact that I have been suffering from first-type diabetes for 15 years, and I have learned well by my own skin method what it means to live with diabetes, I am very pleased to welcome this resolution because diabetes is indeed one of the most dangerous and hard-core epidemic non-infectious diseases of this century, a disease whose treatment and even more non-treatment leading to extremely severe complications of disease is extremely burdening the health budgets of all the countries of the world and so on the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Successful treatment of diabetes regardless of whether or not it's first type diabetes, so-called Juvinal diabetes, which I suffer from, or another type of diabetes, or so-called. aging diabetes, which has been given a special emphasis in this resolution, except for regular medications and regular medical examinations and medical checks, is crucially dependent on the good education of patients and patients, on their own illness, on balanced and regular diet and on conscious self-control. In order to keep diabetes under control, preventive action is essential, and I do not mean preventive action in terms of preventing the onset of the disease by accepting a healthier life, but preventative action in terms of preventing complications of the disease, which are very difficult and extremely expensive for every health care and so on Croatian health care. Whether it is diabetic nephritis that requires treatment with dialysis, whether it is retinopathy caused by blindness, or whether it is neuropathy that leads to limb amputation, poorly regulated diabetes leads to a drastic reduction in the working ability of the population and expensive recovery of complications of the disease. And that is why it is crucial for Croatia not to make mistakes which, as alleged measures of rationalisation and savings, will actually result in two huge irreparable damages to the state, an increase in the number of the sick working incapacitated population, and an enormous increase in costs for their treatment. We should never allow this, but unfortunately we do, that is, Minister Milinovic and this government. What exactly am I thinking about? I think of the catastrophic effects that are already on the treatment of diabetics and diabetics and prevention of diabetes complications has no sense of joining the Medical Hospital "Mercur" and the University Hospital "Vukovec" of the Reference Centre for Diabetes for the Republic of Croatia. It is sad, and even absurd, that the Croatian Parliament is proposing and adopting, and the Government has no objection to this commendable resolution that is more and better sought in the treatment and prevention of diabetes complications, and in practice the government is doing the diametric opposite and actually offers significantly less than we had before. And here I would like to stress that it is absolutely unreasonable to ruin the healthy and quality parts of the Croatian health system such as "Vuk Vrhovec" until recently, and I remind you that in 1981 the University clinic "Vuk Vrhovec" was named the center of excellence, the originality of the World Health Organization for the Development and Technology of Sugar Disease, and this status was maintained after multiple renominations. The "Vuk Vrhovac" education has been passed on by doctors from around the world, passing on the ways of the Croatian diabetes treatment model around the world. "Wolf Vrhovec" is a specific clinic because the internist beds at the University clinic are part of the work of the reference center for diabetes and are used as acute beds for the whole country. The average patient or patient stay is 5 days, which can be praised by very few hospitals and clinics. Patients and doctors all over Croatia know this, so they use the University clinic "Vuk Vrhovec" to help people with the most difficult complications of the disease. "Wolf Vrhovec" developed its work on a fully modern concept with 70% activity in polyclinical and consular activities, and only 30% in hospital beds, i.e. in polyclinics, approximately 4 300 patients per month were treated. In particular, every day, 10 new diabetics or diabetics have been discovered at the clinic that are so necessary, I would say a crucial education on the treatment of disease. How important that I would like to say that, for example, my father, who has also been suffering from first type diabetes, and for 54 years now, thanks to the very good care he gets at "Vuku Vrhovac" has this disease for 54 years, and without complications. And what do we have, or don't we have today, a little less than a year after the Wolf of the Supremes and Mercury mergers? Today unfortunately, we no longer have feedback from patients and patients in the quality of work control process because the study of patients has been discontinued. Today we have much longer waiting for checks and because there are not enough doctors at the clinic anymore. In that sense, I'd just mention that here I was just yesterday for a checkup after six months, and I'd rather go at least 3 and even 4 times a year for a checkup. Today we have a much longer waiting period, as I said. Today we also have a significantly smaller number of doctors, but before the merger, so today on "Vuku Vrhovac" 15 doctors work less than before the merger with "Mercura", and even 7 diabetes specialists are less. But parallel and absurd at the clinic, which is the Center for Diabetes and Co-operation Organisation of the World Health Organization, today employs 10 NKV employees, i.e. employees more. Although the prime minister and resolute minister are reportedly highly intelligent and focused on the clinic, the reference centre in pregnancy is actually abolished because the minister believes that diabetes in pregnancy can be dealt with by any gynecologist who does not have to specialize in diabetes. It is a sad truth that the work of the reference centre is weakened, which also weakens the entire National Diabetes Treatment Network. The project programmes are extremely slow because the leaders of the Mercur Clinical Hospital who are now deciding do not want to deal with it. Clinical pharmacology has been taken over by Mercury, and the relationship to the University Hospital "Vuk Vrhovec" as a whole by the leadership of Mercury and the rest of the ministry can no doubt be labelled as maternal. Namely, while Zagreb hospitals that did not object to the merger were rewarded, such as the Traume that received new operating halls or tumors that received a financial injection to complete the building and the like, the University clinic "Vuk Vrhovec" is systematically impoverished and destroyed because it opposed the merger, i.e. the will of Minister Milinović. The question is, would the Mercur Clinical Hospital, without the attached University Hospital "Wolf Vrhovec" get a national categorization? The fact is, the University Hospital "Volk Vrhovec" had all the necessary preconditions to do so, unlike the Mercur Clinical Hospital. It is a sad fact that the minister in this arbitrary and vindictive manner treats Croatia's institutions which have been proud throughout the world, not at all considering how reckless and personal reasons motivated behavior will be done to harm and clinics, which is least important, both the Croatian budget and the health system, which is very important, but not as important as its hasty and reckless decisions will have immeasurably harmful consequences for the health and life of thousands of Croatian citizens and citizens who suffer and who suffer from diabetes. And right now their interests are to be protected and defended by the Minister of Health, but unfortunately they don't. The government's declarative opinion, which I quote, "There are no objections to the motion for a resolution", but which, in my opinion, leaves out the unreserved support of this commendable resolution, is not a big enough cover for the government to cover itself with its sad destruction of the health care system against those who suffer from diabetes, which is so crucially visible from the text of this resolution, depends on the prevention of complications, i.e. education and regular controls of patients and patients. The question is, why? If the main reason is the minister's vanity is the poorest and saddest of all possible reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75056	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75057	Dear fellow Members, I almost fully agree with you because you can, by your example, also confirm the kind of disease you are dealing with. I said in that first line that I would support this resolution, but I suggested that this committee simply make a resolution on hunger in Croatia, which is also a big problem. It's the only chairman who doesn't understand. But speaking of this merger of hospital institutions, Minister Milinovic did similar work at the school's birthplace where he had now returned the birthplaces to a new rule, and not only the schoolroom, but also the Macarian, Sinish, Imotski while it was still closed, he brought those birthplaces back to a state of two years ago, and the question arises in general why did he shut them down? If at this time he does not want to equip, as the ruling party claims, and build a modern birthplace in Djakov, and as our honorary citizen claims, so I call on this Minister of Health not to make such a nonsense anymore, not to close what cannot be closed and not to leave two years without the citizens of that city. In this case, Giakov, the hearts of Slavonia. I hope I've stuck to the subject in my replica now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75058	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Mirela Holy. It's also your duty to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75059	Dear colleague Vinkovic. Here is the most innovative policy, i.e. the absence of an innovative policy, is also evident from the fact that the reference centre for diabetes in Croatia has ceased to be a reference centre for diabetes, which is also evident today because at the Vuk Vrhovec clinic or the Merkur Clinical Hospital Center today we have diabetes that does not have gynecologists who specialize in complications or diabetes in pregnancy, which is indeed a sad fact, since there is also Prime Minister Kosor and also a resort minister who is strongly opposed to the public as people who are highly engaged in raising birth in the Republic of Croatia. Well, here, perhaps this debate of mine also contributes to a little consideration of the situation today at the former University clinic of Vuk Vrhovec, given that the situation is really difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75060	Thank you. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Honored Andrija Hebrang as Committee President as Proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I thank you for this comprehensive and high-quality and content debate. We also had an opportunity at the thematic session of the Committee to listen to the contributions of academics Zdenko Škrabal of Croatian Diabetology, Professor Metelko, who continues his work today and a large number of other doctors who care about the implementation of the Croatian model for the protection of diabetic patients. What we have done and what I have proposed to the Committee was, in fact, the goal of challenging such a broader debate to mobilise all social layers in the fight against this serious disease, to mobilise our media, to encourage a correction of mistakes if they are made, but to encourage the entire social community in a way that everyone in their place claims that this great epidemic of the 21st century, the rights of the pandemic are reduced to the least possible measure. If we have saved only one human life today, we have done a great work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75062	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75063	Ladies and gentlemen, please engage to check the quorum. Score. Are we on, please? We've got 79 quorums, but we've got more MPs and MPs. We move to a decision-making and voting on the debated and concluded points of the agenda. First, the proposal for a resolution on diabetes. Proposer of the Health and Social Care Committee of the Croatian Parliament, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Health and Social Care, I am voting on the proposal for a resolution on diabetes. Please, let's get involved and vote on Resolution. Check your own vote. I'm asking for a result. This resolution was adopted by a majority of 92 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against the text as proposed by the Health and Social Care Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75064	Points 2 and 3 do not have the conditions for discussion, yet the committees have not finished their discussions. So we move to point 4. that is - Proposal for establishing a draft constitutional law on the amendment and addition of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the applicant proposed this act on the basis of point 2. Decisions concerning the accession of the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the provisions of Article 57 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee, you received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The President of the Committee, the Honorable Vladimir Shakespeare. Before I give you my word and begin speaking, allow me to welcome, on behalf of all of you, a representative of the Defense Associations of the Homeland War. Here you go, Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Decision on the Accession of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which the Croatian Parliament adopted at the 23rd session of 27 May 2011, decided to approach the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to the proposal for a decision to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is on the basis of Article 147 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 21 April 2011, in a section proposing that the rights of Croatian defenders be governed by the constitutional law adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws by a two-thirds majority vote. The rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families are now governed by the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which was adopted in regular proceedings with the ordinary majority of votes. Winning the home war in 1991 to 95. Croatian people and citizens have confirmed their determination and willingness to establish and preserve the Republic of Croatia as an independent and independent, sovereign and democratic state. The successful defence in the fair, legitimate, defence and liberating Homeland War, which the Croatian defenders presented in the first row, was a fundamental prerequisite for the establishment and defence of the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. This led Croatian defenders to create all assumptions for a coherent development of the Republic of Croatia as a country that accepts the democratic standards of the modern world and opens up numerous approaches to the world in political, security, economic and cultural terms. In line with the historical role of the Croatian defender in the creation and defence of the Republic of Croatia, it is assessed that protection of the rights of Croatian defenders is needed to be governed by the Constitutional Law as the organic law of the highest rank in the Republic of Croatia. The role and importance of Croatian defenders is recognised in the change to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by supplementing the Chapter 1 of the original basis with the subheading 13 which reads: "Explaining the thousands of years of national self-resistance and the statehood of the Croatian people confirmed by the sequence of overall historical events in different state forms, and by maintaining and developing a state-of-the-art attitude in the historical law of the Croatian people to full state sovereignty, which was evident in the new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 1990 and the victory of the Croatian people and Croatian defenders in the fair, legitimate, defence-freedoming Homeland War 91 to 95, which the Croatian people demonstrated their determination and willingness to establish and preserve the Republic of Croatia as an independent, independent, sovereign and democratic state. Furthermore, in light of the upcoming accession of the EU Republic of Croatia as an independent and sovereign state within internationally recognised borders, in which freedom and equality, respect for human rights, the rule of law of some of the highest values of the constitutional order and the role of Croatian defenders in establishing and preserving the Republic of Croatia have invaluable importance and significance. All of the above is a special and additional reason why it is assessed as justified and necessary in the year in which 20 years of the declaration of independence of the Republic of Croatia proposes to regulate the rights of Croatian defenders by special constitutional law. According to this amendment, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences is to be adopted in the procedure prescribed for the adoption of organic laws by a two-thirds majority of the votes of all MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75066	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. Respected Defence Minister, family and intergenerational solidarity Tomislav Ivic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75067	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I am honored to welcome you on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with special respect, of course, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Associations of Defense from the Homeland War and to thank them for coming to follow this debate. It is known that Croatia has a well-built system of care for the victims of the Homeland War, so families of the dead, prisoners, missing Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime disableds and Croatian defenders. The fact is that over the past 7.5 years all the regulations in the case of Croatian defenders or defence population have been adopted and adopted in cooperation with defence associations, since the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences in 2004, including all other regulations concerning the non-defense population. And it is the initiative that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and the members of their families become an uprising that came from defenders through representatives of defence associations. It is not about any new rights or increasing existing rights that require an increase in resources in the state budget. It should also be said that Croatia has a Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, which is consistently implemented and all obligations towards the defence population of the states are regulated in contrast to the laws of the 1990s and 2001s. By raising the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence to the constitutional level, the Croatian defenders are guaranteed the continuity and security of the exercise of law rights and I must say that in the year when we mark the 20th anniversary of Croatian independence and independence, and in the year when we end negotiations with the EU and soon we become a full member of the EU, and I believe that we will all agree on that. Both, therefore, for Croatia's independence and independence as the Prime Minister recently pointed out for the conclusion of the negotiations, and soon full membership in the EU is the most responsible Croatian defenders. If there were no Croatian defenders and their victims, there would be no sovereign, independent democratic Croatia and tomorrow the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75068	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. First, the HDZ club is a respected representative, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75069	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I would like to welcome my fellow presidents and representatives of the Associations of Homeland War that are with us today and who are following this debate on amendments or draft amendments to the Constitutional Law so that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defencers becomes a constitutional category. In fact, this is the second step in which the initiative launched by the victims' population, i.e. 42 associations from the Homeland War accepted and forwarded them to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution Committee, which was also proposed by the Constitution, and the Club of the Representatives of the HDZ strongly supports and accepts such a proposal to amend the Constitution and such a draft law which would make Croatian defenders and the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences a constitutional category. In fact, we have heard about all the important things why it is moving in this initiative, but we are also aware that, regardless of the committees which have unanimously accepted this initiative, it is accepted only by HDZ and coalition partners who have sat on these committees and who make up the majority, that I want to be clear to the entire Croatian public today without any political confrontations to ask both the SDP colleagues and their coalition partners and the HNS as well as all others who certainly want to warmly to the Croatian defenders of good, who want 20 years of independence of the Republic of Croatia, in the context of the 20 years of the establishment of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and in the light of the last objective set out by the late President Tudjman, that is the EU and European integration where it belongs and the Republic of Croatia, that Croatian defenders also become a constitutional category of minorities. These short amendments to the Constitution certainly make them small by letter and text supervised in this proposal, but they are large and huge in recognising the real merits of Croatian defenders and creating an independent, sovereign and free country for us Croatia. Surely, all those who do not recognize it and who want to continue to politically polarise and try to subsidise themselves with the victims' population, the population of Croatian defenders, who have honored both the defense and the liberation of Croatia certainly do not want those defenders or their families, especially those who have died and gave their lives for the Republic of Croatia, well. We want to invite everyone as the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, all Croatian patriots, as well as MPs and MPs, so we don't polarise this in the Croatian Parliament, that we don't go back to the past, that we don't worship each other what it was and what it was, we end up with a story called Croatian defenders. They are honorable in Croatian history, they have their moral role, they knew when they had to, they stopped when they had to, they clearly showed how to defend national colors, how to give life to their country, how to suffer for their country, how to suffer for their country. They clearly articulated it throughout the Homeland War, since the '90s. until '95, in all the defence and liberating operations that we declared as Parliament that they were legitimate, justified and necessary, liberating and certainly from around the world, the European Union and NATO, European Commissions were declared legitimate. There was no other way and possibility of any agreements to resolve what was called aggression on the Republic of Croatia, and therefore Croatian defenders clearly used their knowledge, will and strength, especially love for their country, to defend and free all territories, according to President Tudjman's decision. Today, when they need to be admitted, when through this act of a bureaucratic passage of the Constitutional Law on the rights of Croatian defenders we raise our hands again and again make doubts. I want to stress that there should be no doubt. There are also Croatian defenders in all lines of political options represented today in the Croatian Parliament. In one more of them, in the other, less representation, and we need to be aware of that. We cannot be equal, but we can also say today that this way in which we wish to give due respect, a moral satisfaction that costs nothing materially, which has no additional budget values and which certainly would have made it possible for Croatian defenders who have proposed this amendment to the Constitution and to become the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families by constitutional category, which is adopted by 2/3 to the majority. They would certainly give in to the recognition of 20 years after the establishment of the first armed formations, 20 years after the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, and today when we are safely on the path of the civilized world, on the European Union's path where we belong and where we will certainly build the future. Not to mention everything that has happened and why Croatian defenders have proposed such changes to the Constitution would certainly not have been nice to hear in this House. I've been doing it a few times before, and I'm gonna stop this time. Today I will stand in the name of what we should do because I certainly believe that everyone who thinks resolutely, humanly, I expect them to be together on this path that certainly does not mean anything other than voting and support for Croatian defenders, but it will mean the end of the possibility that around the legal provisions, their changes will be speculated and calculated, that the possibility of changing or abolishing the rights of Croatian defenders that are defined by this law and who insist on the last of, the big change of the law was in 2004 and began to apply 1.1.2005. and since then, with the small changes of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, we have clearly come to the possibility that it will become a constitutional category. All those who are going to try to do this in a new context or in some other interpretation, I would like to stress that they will not be right, that we will reassure them with arguments. For us today are arguments and an interested population of Croatian defenders who are closely following and listening. My fellow presidents and representatives of individual associations from the national level who are interested in the category that this Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers becomes a constitutional category as soon as possible and stop the calculations and confrontation of political options at the expense of Croatian defenders. We have defended Croatia, released today when we are standing before you I can say in front of the Croatian Democratic Community club that we want this for sure, this initiative and the Constitution Committee, as well as the Croatian defenders who proposed to succeed and to say step, the adoption of laws and changes of the Constitution, to be common and that there are no further political conflicts and confrontations between political options on this political scene in the Croatian Parliament. We welcome this proposal, which has come from the victims' population, and I will repeat once again, the Croatian Democratic Community club unreservedly supports the adoption of amendments to the Constitution and we recommend and ask all those in the Croatian Parliament who want to end the confrontation over the back of Croatian defenders to vote on these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75070	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75071	Mr. Vice President, Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. Let them watch and let them listen and let them listen and we are not children, Mr. Djakic, it is clear how in this pre-election or election time there are several thousand more votes. Clearly, it's legitimate, but this time, gentlemen, as in Sanader's time, it's probably not going to go after the hand you just gave up. The fundamental question is this: Will it be sustainable, for example, for future generations? That's what we'll see for maybe a year or two. We'll think about it clearly the next day. On the other hand, as we all know here in 6.7.2010, what you are raising, we have adopted a new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. How come the gentlemen of the HDZ, you who are proposing this proposal to determine the draft Constitutional Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, how then you forgot about the defenders. How's that? Why didn't you seek consensus in these two or three months? Why did you seek consensus now for the first time in this assembly pay phone through your spokeswoman, Mr. Djakic? I finally claim that the defenders expect their rights to come true, not to be established. There's a pay phone out there in '96. The late President Tudjman spoke of 300,000 defenders, talking about a number of Circ. 30,000 people with disabilities. Today, the defender in the Republic of Croatia has over 510000 people with disabilities over 70,000. I keep repeating to real disabled people everything, to the families of the victims absolutely everything, always to these people should give one more kuna. No one in their status has the right to touch. These laws, which would thinn the disabled, or families of the victims, should be adopted not by a two-thirds majority, but by an absolute consensus in this House. Clearly, if there are those who have abused, abused the position, if what we call a fake, let's say, disabled, etc. It is clear that this should be revised as clearly as those who have misused the trust of the institutions and who have received the status of defenders on this basis. We all know here that we have about 150,000 people who have never seen the front. Okay. Some of them worked in offices, others made cakes, bread, tea. Some of them may have made the same use as those in the trenches. Although I personally think it should always be done. What maybe we should do next day, that in election years we simply don't transfer any financial rights to future teams that will take over. Not a single financial right like you HDZ gentlemen asked that authority there in '89. A year. Why? Someone will say the same way you heard it in public would not be treated like NOB fighters, and they integrated one Istria, one Zadar, one Rijeka into the Croatian People's Territorial Corps. Without NOB, Croatia would never have borders that are as such internationally recognised still there on the basis of the Badintier Commission. You don't have to step on them either. Some in this assembly said that as a special category, I don't know pensioners. That's what Mr. Hrelja was talking about, diabetes, etc. of which We discussed before, and of the like. If any law wanted someone to admit it or not. And that's why it's good to let this listen to the public election law then it's this law. At last, the minister had told this speaker not to abolish or introduce any new institute, any new rights. Well, you're not doubting a team that's gonna take the lead on this country the next day. It is clear that the defenders will have more under the new government tomorrow than they have under this government if the economic and economic parameters of the Republic of Croatia are stabilised by this team that you gentlemen on the right support. If finally the children of the defenders who look at us have the opportunity to work, to have permanent incomes, to be able to single out contributions and so forth. I guess that should be the point. That's what we should be trying to do in this country. This Law has only 3 articles. Perhaps it should not even be quoted as saying: "The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia "The National Journal" etc. cleared text. Article 58(3) adds a new paragraph 4 which reads: "The rights of Croatian defenders are governed by the constitutional law adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws. In Article 83 paragraph 1, the words "reduced" are added: "And the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and this Law or this Constitutional Law enters into force on the day of actual adoption." In this law, it is also stated in the reasoning that this Law will not generate any additional costs. It just doesn't suit the truth. In one word, gentlemen, let's not manipulate these laws, because as I said, it's not about the rights being established, it's about the rights of the existing laws coming true. Where is the gentlemen of Croatia today 2011. The public debt of the Republic of Croatia in 2011 will be greater than 60% of gross social product or at least 200 billion kuna with guarantees of normally bankrupt shipbuilding. According to the Treaty of Mastricht, that must not happen. By 2014, it'll be over 100%. It's bankruptcy. Only interest is 2 and a half percentage points greater than the real growth rate of the gross social product. Compared to 2009, public debt increased by 13.6% or 16 billion kuna. At the annual level, the central state increased its debt from 103.2 billion kuna at the end of 2009 to $125.9 billion at the end of September 2010. Today it's about 135 billion kuna. The total debt of the general government plus state guarantees plus HBOR debt means at the end of September 2010 it was 191 billion kuna. Today there are around 210 billion kunas, which is an increase of almost 30%, etc. etc. That's what the government of the HDZ to us or to those who will take over the power will actually leave. So I guess everyone here cares about the position of state and defenders as stable as possible, to be as orderly as possible, but if the economic system is not in a position to bear the needs of society, for example. Shipbuilding or defender Đakovština, which Vinkovic spoke of before, pensioners, health workers, education, police, Croatian military, etc., customs, and then I don't know what will happen. I'm not going to repeat these economic parameters now, but you know very well that on this day in this country we have 1 million 450 thousand insurance companies, so those who pay contributions, and on the other hand over a million and 200 thousand pensioners. We have, come on, because of the impact of the season, about 300 thousand unemployed. I agree with one good part maybe and 20% working on black, the World Bank is talking about 35%, we have 388 thousand people working in these public services, etc. What I'm saying is, in the year of the election year, we should simply bring in some resolution, some declaration, some constitutional formulation that we all, in fact, make a commitment in the election year that no financial special commitment will be transferred to any future government. This is also what someone wanted to admit or not, political law a couple of excellences. It's clearly a delicate subject, not for us, to say the least... in Istria, but in Slavonia certainly yes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not for the most part, perhaps in the Primorje-Gorski County, but in Dalmatia, yes. That's why I can speak far more freely than those who may come from those parts, so they might think the same way I do. Not for one city in Zagreb, but for one Vukovar, absolutely yes, even for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Why? Because many are in the care system, among other things, because of this Law on Defense. So the law is not accidentally under the quotes of podasts, or proposed, however, we have not been naive for a long time in this House, it has its own political background, one such law in particular, and I would really like these laws to be adopted by consensus, so we finally had a consensus when it came a year ago or adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. All the laws, that's my impression, about the defenders, have been adopted in this House by consensus, but I fear these changes that are not devoid of politics, by the promoters, will simply not be adopted by consensus, and there has been an opportunity for us to do so when we amend the Constitution. And once again, how come the gentlemen of the HDZ that, when you changed the Constitution, you simply forgot your position as defender? So new, to some higher rights, you can simply come up with a new policy, a more successful economy, and without any kind of politicizing. And we can also talk about how there are about 2,000 and defense associations in this country. I agree, Mr Djakic, that without the victim of the defenders, the Republic of Croatia would not have been established without the victim of the defenders, would not have been Croatia by an independent state, would not have been the Parliament, would not have been the democratic or quasi of democratic institutions that we have in the Republic of Croatia, it would have been the absolute merit of the defender. But I am also sure that no future government, whoever sits in that future government, if the economy is successful, will bring any rights of Croatian defenders. However, I claim that these rights will spread. But what have we got? We have a situation that this team that has been in power for the last 8 years leaves behind a broken economy, as if through Croatia gentlemen had passed the tsunamis. That's right. Tsunami. Tsunami. No, it did not cross Croatia's IDS, but Croatia passed HDZ. It's that tsunami that's been following us so expensive all this time, and it's finally costing. And what do you expect tomorrow? Clear sacrifice, denial, possibly restrictions. If nothing is diminished as the defence minister says, why doubt the future power that needs to be stabilised and which should be launched by the Republic of Croatia? And so much, Mr. Djakic, for defenders there is no doubt, there is doubt about the position of financial, economic, state and those who manipulate clearly the defenders. So for defenders always, absolutely yes, for HDZ manipulation no, for defenders always that, for divisions never, for defenders yes, but for politicizing neither do gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75072	Thank you very much. Thank you. I just want to say as president that defense attorneys are never or can be manipulated. You can't manipulate them, and you can't manipulate them. And now we have 14 corrections of incorrect allegations. I warn everyone that they must strictly stick to our Rules of Procedure, which means to say what is being corrected and secondly stick to the time in which it is to be corrected. Let's take it in a row. First is the distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75073	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in the sea of inaccuracy that Mr. Cain said, I will only correct a few. First of all, politicizing this law is not considered as a fact you've said. Since the proposal for constitutional changes has been proposed by Mrs Neda Balog, Ivan Psenica, Mr Djuro Glogoski, who are not party members and are not members of any party, so you speak by heart and speak imprecisely. The second thing, that with 30,000 people with disabilities has grown to 70,000 and that is incorrect, 55 thousand people with disabilities is the Homeland War, and they have been increased since the law of 1.1 entered into force in 2005 that those who did not exercise their rights, and they have suffered mentally, that in a year they can submit requests to regulate their rights on the medical committees and on the doctors who.../The speaker does not understand them. And third, to use in BiH. Well, of course, those who defended the Republic of Croatia using an interstate agreement have been used to regulate it. You forgot about him? And they were members of the Croatian Army and were in the role of the defence of the Republic of Croatia and therefore the Republic of Croatia has extended itself to them by an interstate agreement that gives them their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75074	Time. Thank you. It's the Honorable representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75075	Well, here's Mr. Vice President in a sea of incorrect allegations. I'll concentrate on only one. You said Mr. Caine's intention was to reach a few thousand votes, at the beginning of your presentation. Well, after your presentation, I'm sure your voices won't go to you, I'm almost convinced, because this shows how much you hold up to the Croatian defenders. You said this was politics by the HDZ, and you forgot that the initiative comes from the defenders, from the defence associations that Mr Djakic spoke of. So don't our defenders deserve this little text change of the Constitution, and symbolically so important to all of us citizens of the Croatian state?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75076	Thank you. It's time to correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75077	Thank you very much. A colleague, Cain, incorrectly said the HDZ wanted to win the defence vote with this proposal. Well, colleague Cain, since you've managed to fight and the coalition, you want to fight us here, too, but it's not going to work. Because you're holding on to the foreign exchange that when you can't help you need to participate, so the important thing is that you're just interrupting. But this, colleague Cain, is a patriotic act that anyone normal should support because this proposal goes from associations, from defense associations and out of respect for them should support this. And if they do not believe in you, do not allow God to come to power, but poor people have brought you prosthetics when you did not believe them that they were disabled, and they brought you prosthetics that they were without feet. How would you believe that you would obey the law if you came to power?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75078	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75079	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Cain brought out a series of inaccuracies, and here's just a few of them I'll try to correct. He argued that there are more than 510 thousand defenders in Croatia today. My colleague Kai's way of saying and saying this number is wrong. First, it is incorrect because on 31.12. in the Croatian Defence Register, 501 thousand 666 Croatian defenders were registered. My colleague Cain, that's not a number, they're not a number, they're people with a name and a last name. Part of them sits up at the gallery, part of them sits in these Assembly benches. Comrade Cain, it is incorrect to transfer financial rights to someone else because this law does not create any new financial law. And when you say, or ask us, do we suspect that you will not respect, colleague Cain, we have no reason to doubt, we have testified from 2000 to 2003 that you respected the rights of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75080	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75081	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain, of course, I'm joining the corrections to the incorrect allegations that the predecessors have made, but I would certainly refer to this law as an electoral law and if it were to be clear, there are several thousand votes. It's not just, dear fellow, that it's incorrect, but it's pathetic. So bidding with a few thousand votes is really pathetic. Those of you who deserve to be here in this High House, you can comment on everything and everything. And of course don't forget to constantly glorify NOB and all of them, without wondering how much it cost those generations of boredom, and many cost lives, unfortunately, and who they were. But it's even more absurd for you to promise that you and the greater rights, which, of course, will not happen. So our defenders don't suffer from short memories so that they don't remember the annulment of 4 280 items were unlawfully conducted procedures of annulment, the abolition of the status solution of Croatian military disabled and other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75082	Thank you very much. It is up to the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75083	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain, as my predecessors, I'll quote your exposure. First you said "how to get to several thousand votes" and "this is HDZ's election law", which is incorrect. The initiative has begun, as you have already heard from my colleagues, by these men of honor sitting at the gallery and representing the defense associations. Secondly, on behalf of HDZ, Djakic invited all of us here representatives and the Croatian public not to just politicise with this law because we need to bow to these people once, including you fellow Cain. And finally, if at the end of your presentation you said that you were for Croatian defenders so accept their initiative, it cost nothing but change, one change in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And that, thousands and thousands of Croatian defenders deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75084	Thank you. It is time to correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75085	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain obviously succeeded in his only intention, which is to provoke our steps, but we simply have to react and correct what is not true that the untruth doesn't go public. So here I am correcting a statement by my colleague Caine who said that we doubted a new team that would lead Croatia after the election. Not that we all need to be afraid to return SDP and its rooster to power, and for what? Because we know what happened between 2000 and 2003, where the basics for personal and family disability were reduced, the orthopaedic allowance, the reduced family disability pensions, the failure to meet the legal obligation for wartime military disabled 100% of the first group. There were no funeral expenses after the death of Croatian defenders as well as honors during the burial, etc., etc. That's why we don't doubt it. We don't need to doubt it. We need to be afraid. They will give a good God and a wise Croatian people, so that will not happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75086	Thank you very much. It's time to correct the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75087	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct Mr. Cain who said that the defenders would have more under this new government than under this government. Mr. Caine forgot what you were doing when you were in power in 2000 to 2003, you illegally carried out the procedure of repealing and abolishing the status of Croatian military disabled persons so that the Administrative Court returned the rights to 4 280 cases. Do you think these people up there forgot the test you gave them to fulfill? One question was, is their mom their own mom? Can you look into these people's eyes and say something like that?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75088	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75089	Well, Mr. Vice President, in his debate, my colleague Cain only guessed that he was in the election year, but I've got a rule of law to fix. My colleague Cain says this is an HDZ initiative which is not true. This is the initiative of Croatian defenders, these worse people sitting down, so that by chance what happened in 2000 does not happen to them again that their rights are lifted. You would prefer that in the election year, defense attorneys should not even mention, let alone that something useful can be done for defenders in the election year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75090	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75091	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Caine, you were talking about some kind of destruction she committed as you say this set. I must tell you that this government has done no destruction but has restored dignity to Croatian defenders who have begun to be threatened by the coalition government from 2000 to 2003. Remember only the cars this government had to buy that the former, the previous government did not deliver in time to the 100% Croatian War and Military Disabilities of the first group. Not to mention all other rights to how many lawsuits were filed and how much money this government had to pay back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75092	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75093	Thank you. Here I am correcting the incorrect allegations of fellow Caine that this law will create additional new costs, that is not true, it is true that it will not create them. And the reason why we raise this law to the level of the Constitutional Law is so that what happened with the rights of Croatian military disabled and defenders at the time of the coalition government. I will only state one of the reasons which is that the procedures for repealing and abolishing the status of Croatian military disabled persons and their permanent rights have been unlawfully implemented. TO THE Constitutional Court's rulings, that these rights were returned to 4280 cases. Because that's the only reason that it's one of the reasons we have reason to doubt your intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75094	Thank you. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cain said this law is being manipulated. It is indeed not true, on the contrary, this law prevents any manipulation of the rights of Croatian defenders and it is obvious that Mr Cain did not read the Law or did not recognize the true intention of this Law. And when we look at the whole exposure, then we can say that Mr. Cain didn't really recognize that true intention and he didn't even want to recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75096	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75097	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Something may have shrunk unnecessarily, beware, but surely gentlemen have not been stolen as they have stolen in the last two terms. Those who worked on those questionnaires today are the State Secretary of your government. 120,000 jobs...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75098	Your Honor, you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75099	In 2009 to this day, if someone lost that right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75100	Your Honor, I beg you, this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure you cannot continue, because it has nothing to do with the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, and please, I am interrupting you in the debate. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the corrections of incorrect allegations, thank you very much. It is up to the distinguished representative Dragan Vukic to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, as usual, my colleague Cain has broken everything and everything in his debate and it is difficult to correct everything in a brief fashion. He mentioned citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina in some law. No citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are mentioned in any of our laws, Croatian citizens are mentioned, and if we talk about the Law on Defence, then Croatian defenders who defended and created the Croatian state and unfortunately these same defenders must listen to you every time, Mr. Cain, fighting a special war against the same Croatian state. That's what the same defenders tell you, it's a lot harder on them than the whole armed struggle they've been through. And they told me something else to tell you, but I won't tell you that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75102	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75103	So now I think I have the right to answer this qualification for me to wage a special war against the Republic of Croatia. You know who's waging a special war against this country, the ones who stole this country. [[The speaker has been disabled doesn't understand.]] Those who made it possible and led to 120 thousand jobs being empty from 1.7. In 2009, after Eve Sanader left.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75104	Please, without being thrown out of the bench, this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, although I agree that such qualifications cannot be presented here by the honourable representative. Let's move on, one more correction, please. We can't say it here no matter who ordered it. We have another correction to the incorrect allegations of a respected representative and vice president of the house Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75105	It is an incorrect claim by MP Damir Kajin when he claimed that Croatian defenders were forgotten when the Constitution changed in July this year. The other way around. The Croatian defenders were the original foundations of 2010 on the amendment of the Constitution and quoted correctly in this Report and in the proposal of the Constitution Committee, and I also presented for this speaker and quoted the role and importance of Croatian defenders was recognized in the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and we also cited in the original basis the victory of the Croatian people and Croatian defenders. It is a political part in the preamble of the Constitution, and this is now only in the normative sense of expressing that original basis, role and importance of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75106	Thank you very much. In the name of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respected. I didn't see you have to say... Dear MPs, another correction to the incorrect quote by Djurdzica Sumrak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a thank you for admitting that I picked up the plate, and why? Because these shamefully incorrect allegations by Agent Cain are incorrect in several allegations, and one is that it is pre-election law. It's not Mr. Cain. And here's why he didn't. It is not because this government in 2004 had to return their rights to the Croatian defenders that you took away from them, it is not because you are known that when the new Law on Croatian Defences was passed in 2005 when this government came out of the assembly. You keep going out with your coalition partners when issues of Croatian are resolved. That's how you came out on the 25.6th when you were talking about independence. Mr. Cain, you may be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75108	Thank you. And on behalf of the government, the Honorable Minister Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to react to a whole series of lies and inaccuracies Mr. Cain made in his presentation. A good part of it was corrected by the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Mr Cain, the proposal for this law is primarily an expression of respect and gratitude for all Croatian defenders and those sitting upstairs at galleries representing Croatian defenders but literally to all who participated in the creation of an independent and sovereign Croatia. And it is not any politics and politics, it is not, of course, the fact that Croatian defenders have been forgotten for the last time in amending the Constitution. This initiative, as I said in the opening presentation, came from Croatian defenders and people sitting up here at the gallery and at a meeting in the Government of the Republic of Croatia which, of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted and supported. We had a nice opportunity to see what your relationship with Croatian defenders was like between 2000 and 2003. And just to remind you that this resulted in thousands and thousands of lawsuits against the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that in the name of compensation for the damage done to the Croatian defenders, but also in the name of what was not carried out in the work and it was called the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence over the past few years we have paid a billion kuna. And that's exactly what you said about the law being implemented, not the constitution. And what I can proudly say is that over the past 7.5 years all the provisions of the Law on the Rights of the Croatian defenders have been implemented to the last score and that all payments of the leftover rights from the previous period have been made. And one more thing to remind you, you also said that all the laws on the rights of Croatian defenders were passed by consensus. That's not true. And last time on 30.11.2004, when the adoption and voting on the proposal of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Prosecutors, the opposition left the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75110	Thank you. Before correcting the incorrect allegations, I would like to inform the Committee on Education, Science and Culture today at 14.00 p.m., a session in the Chamber of Janka Draskovic was called 202. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75111	My relationship with the defenders has always been the same. One kuna more, and the other what has. However, to correct your claim, Mr. Minister, about the expression of respect for your authority for the defenders. It would have been respected for Croatian defenders far more if this Croatia hadn't been so facelessly stolen in the last 8 years as it had not, that everything that could have been destroyed had not been converted, and these people had left after the war was over on the road, that 120 thousand people had not been fired after 1.1.2007, that the public debt was smaller. One word from the defenders, I think any future government will be incomparably more respected than yours does.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75112	Thank you very much. And God forbid. It is next to the HNS club, HSU's distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75113	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs, honored guests. I'm glad we can see you here in the Parliament today to hear our thoughts on this subject. Before I begin the debate and the name of the HNS club, allow HSU, let me say, colleague Cain has a very special way and often quite a picturesque way, but if it is the respect of the Croatian defenders, colleague Caine was the Croatian defender, in the war, in the trenches, so he did not fall from the sky. You can agree with his views or not, but he's a Croatian defender and let's keep that in mind. And Croatian defenders can have different opinions. ... No, I don't. in person. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Not at a station in Pula unlike many of you. No, but in war, unlike many of you again. Proposal for the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence to rise to the level of the Constitutional Law. That's a suggestion here. So this is not about the rights of Croatian defenders. The rights of Croatian defenders are defined by the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, not about extending or narrowing these rights. It is about raising the protection of the rights of Croatian defenders from the level of regular law which protects the rights of all others, to the level of the Constitutional Law. Therefore, it is exclusively about changing the level of legal protection of the rights of Croatian defenders, not about the content of rights or legal protection of rights because it exists. Which is why HDZ decided at this time on such a move and initiative, not to change the content but to change the level of legal protection from law to the level of constitutional law. It is mentioned here that it is a matter of showing respect, honor, respect for Croatian defenders. As far as this is concerned, it appears in the present Croatian Constitution in two places, one is the original basis or preamble and the other is Article 58. The Constitution, which states in paragraph 3, quotes: "The special care of the state is devoted to the protection of Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime disabled persons, widows, parents and children of the dead Croatian defenders." So as to respect, honor is mentioned in the Constitution in the way I quoted it, in two places. It is settled with the existing constitutional text. Well, obviously that's not what this is about. Is this about mistrust in Croatian laws? It could be that it's simply a matter of the fact that something guaranteed by law can and doesn't have to. It can be carried out or it doesn't have to be implemented. Does this express itself, and I don't see any other interpretation, the view that the rights of children, the rights of mothers with small children, the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of workers, the rights of pensioners, the rights of young students, the rights of school children who were promised, and much here debated about the famous compulsory secondary education that evaporated, is gone. There is no longer the right to secondary education as a compulsory part of education in the Republic of Croatia. So whether the rights of all these groups, of children, pensioners, workers, disabled people, students, young people, deserve a lower level of legal protection than the rights of Croatian defenders. Why? Why these rights deserve a lower level of protection than the rights of Croatian defenders. ... I think it would be better to listen, that you believe that the rights of the defender deserve a higher level of protection than they deserve the rights of children, young people, mothers with young children, disabled children, school children, students and all other groups in Croatian society. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Are these groups less important, are their rights less important? We at the HNS club, we think they're not, we think they're equally important and we think they should have equal law, or equal level of legal protection. You don't think these other groups need security and continuity to protect their rights, so of course they do. Everyone needs security and continuity in protecting their rights. Such an initiative, and if it were to go first, the right to equality of all citizens would be violated not only before the law, but also by all citizens and citizens before the Constitution. Such an initiative of a higher level of protection of the rights of one population compared to all other segments of Croatian society shows that it is intended to cause a situation where people before the Constitution are not equal and are not equal before the laws. It's something that's not gonna happen. Any favouring of one segment of the population before the Constitution and the laws is justified only when it comes to the positive discrimination of a population that is historically, traditionally, for any other reason discriminated against and at the time of this discrimination. So to correct some historical discrimination or the traditional discrimination of a segment of the population, positive discrimination is thus justified. The defenders are not a population that is traditionally discriminated against. The law, an existing law on the rights of Croatian defenders, protects the rights of Croatian defenders. That's not questionable. This rise to the level of constitutional law violates the fundamental constitutional principle of equality before the Constitution and the law of all citizens and citizens of this country. And I call on Croatian defenders, not necessarily those who came here to pressure but those who are watching the whole country and those who fought in the Homeland War, who have fought for Croatia in the war to defend it today as a modern European state of equal citizens and citizens. What is defended in war by weapons in peace is defended by the Constitution, personal courage and laws. This is what is being defended in peace, and in peace is being defended by the civil modern state of equal citizens and citizens. This is the goal of developing this country where the rights of all social groups and the rights of each individual and each individual are protected at the same legal level. Why are these changes proposed now, not at the beginning of the government's mandate, not at the start of the government's mandate but under the second prime minister, not at the beginning of last term, but now, several months before the election. Well, it's quite clear that they're proposed for pre-election purposes and it's completely white. However, if it were to be proposed even now with the intention to make a factual change to the Constitution, and then the HDZ ranks would not have come attacks, insults and demeanings at the expense of the opposition but would have been an attempt to reach an agreement with the opposition because I remind you without the opposition's votes, you know, they all know there is no change in the Constitution. Without two-thirds, there's no constitutional change. So, if you cared that the Constitution had changed in fact, you would try to set up some agreement, reach some agreement, and not confront yourself so that it could be produced in a debate with complete awareness that without two-thirds of the changes to the Constitution there is no. And finally, let me say it. If the defenders consider them defenders, the defenders are men like everyone else, of course. There are therefore different attitudes, opinions, and political commitment. Therefore, those defenders who believe that their rights should be more powerful and better protected than children's rights, mothers, pensioners, school children, youth, students, disabled persons who feel that their rights are more important and should be protected from the rights of these others should not support this HDZ initiative, and those defenders who think that their rights should be protected at the same level as mothers, children, workers, disabled people and all others should not support this initiative on changing the content and scope of Croatian defenders' rights rather than on the level of legal protection that would be higher and special to the rights of Croatian defenders than for all other groups, sensitive groups in Croatian society. If the defenders think that their rights should be protected at the same level as the rights of mothers, children and workers, then let them not support this initiative. The HNS and HSU Club believes that the rights of defenders should be protected at the same legal level as the rights of students, children, workers, disabled persons, pensioners and all other sensitive groups in Croatian society and therefore will not support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75114	Thank you. I just want to warn you of one thing said by the esteemed representative Vesna Pusic, which is that the presence of the defender is an exercise of pressure. For the first time in the Croatian Parliament, it was said that there were many, many, many, many groups in the gallery to put pressure on. I don't think they were doing any pressure today, but they were present. And now a few notices before 13 correcting incorrect allegations. I shall first inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 12.36 for the application of the debate for ten minutes. And secondly, the session of the European Integration Committee will be held at 13:30 in the Janko Draskovic Hall. And now we're going to the corrections. What I said before is true now. It means to say what's being corrected and another to stick to time. He is the first respected representative, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to correct a few allegations from my colleague Pusic, where she said that the HDZ initiative and move in the current pre-election time is certainly for political reasons. I'll tell you again. The move and initiative is a defence population that was not satisfied with the status in the Constitution that we regulated in the previous time, as you said in paragraph 3 and in the preamble to the Constitution, but have additionally submitted a request in order for the complete Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence to become a constitutional category and it is unfortunate that those who are the initiators of the Change Constitution to call today to put pressure on anyone. They don't put pressure on anyone, but as a civil initiative, but the defense initiative is certainly an interested party in this process and that's why they were present here at the gallery and here's thank God they came back. And what I want to point out is that the lower level of protection is children, mothers and parents certainly don't stand. The defenders as you have often all said that those who have defended, freed and created an independent homeland Croatia cannot be in the same categories with those who have been in America, Munich or in the basement.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75116	Thank you very much. Please stick to the time. It's the same thing. The Honorable representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, the distinguished representative Pusic, a lot, a lot of things you said incorrectly. But here's your one negative fixation to Croatian defenders is in reality you said that defenders are putting pressure on them. You may be allergic to Croatian defenders, but believe me, they don't put any pressure on you. They're just here. Everything they're looking for has been earned, but they didn't deserve in 2001 to fire 10,000 Croatian defenders, military employees and police officers without reason. After that, the new government had to pay back 5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75118	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, the article is in 209 when the correcting of the incorrect quote does not correct the incorrect quote from counterpart twilight. My negative fixation and allergy as she says is not an incorrect quote and is not a business category. Therefore, it is only an excuse here for insulting, not for correcting an incorrect quote. Some claims have been made here that can be disproved, and as far as any civilian initiative is concerned, of course, is pressured to put attitudes, interests, anything that it suggests to be realized. It's a civil initiative. But of course it's different what Parliament does.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75120	Thank you. I have to answer that it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure because the correction is the usual way that you correct it here and she said it corrects the incorrect assumption. We're not going to pollemize, but that's the way it is. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75121	Thank you very much. My colleague Pusic said, and I didn't believe my ears to hear it, but when you repeated it, Mr. Vice President, it was probably. She said that the presence of defenders, so these people at the gallery, meant pressure on the Croatian Parliament. If there were no defenders there would be no Croatian Parliament, there would be no gallery, it would not be you representing the interests of the Croatian state in the European Union, but rather representing them in some Balkan Union. So that's incorrect. The second is incorrect, when you said Mr. Cain was a defense attorney. Look at his résumé on the Internet, it says in his résumé he added to the presidential election from the defenders, from the Homeland War, not D, not the letters. In another résumé, it says there was a defender in Storm. Yeah, he was, because he was mobilized and if he hadn't responded, he'd be in jail.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75122	Thank you. Let's move on. Please don't throw it out of the bench. You can't get out of the bench, no. ... Well, you don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75123	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that my colleague Cain was in the trenches, but it's true that he wasn't, he was mobilized as I was, in the 119s of the Croatian Army, and he was in the "Storm" and on that basis he is a defender, and he deeply insults the reaction from the bench on my left to, with a smile that he's the defender from Pula. No, he was on his way through Križpolje, like Jasenica, Saborska, Rakovica, Plitvice Lakes. So that's what's true, and his thing is whether he wants to write it or not in his resume. Secondly, I am asking you, Mr. Vice President, when I took my word, that in time I know when there will be amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act, that I can mobilise at least 300 representatives of pension societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75124	Thank you very much. This last one is a typical example of how it doesn't correct itself, exactly what your club president said. Let's move on, correcting the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75125	Thank you. If there is time for much to be fixed, I will concentrate on when my colleague Pusic said that all groups should have the same or greater rights than Croatian defenders, so from kindergarten to pensioners. I think that when she said that the best answer was when the representatives of the defense associations left the gallery, they made her know what they thought about the proposal. I think she wanted to divorce a good initiative, and the Croatian state also has one of the best laws on the rights of national minorities, the respected colleague did not mind when we raised it to constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75126	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I appeal again to Article 209 in which my colleague Rebić corrected something that I did not say, so under the correction of an incorrect assumption as a correction, he stated the correction of something I did not say, so I did not say that all groups should have kindergarten, although I think kindergarten children should have a high level of protection of human rights, that they should have the same or greater protection of rights from defenders, but I said that all groups should have the same level of legal force that protect their rights, which are different, but all by law, and not by some constitutional law, except when it comes to groups that are decided by the Assembly, historically or traditionally discriminated, so the positive discrimination against them are the historical, historical position corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75128	Thank you very much. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75129	In these situations, the Croatian Parliament and the Constitution decided which groups they were.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75130	Thank you. I have to say again, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75131	I don't think so. Well, you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75132	The same way your clubmate's been fixing it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75133	But what difference does it make if he hurt the Rules of Procedure, so can this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75134	Please, Your Honor, you can't have sex with everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75135	A fellow vice president, a fact... Doesn't mean others can break it. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75136	Dear Representative and Vice-President of House Vladimir Seks, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75137	The wrong claim by MP Vesna Pusic is that this initiative violates the fundamental constitutional principle of equality of citizens. So that the principle of equality of citizens is being violated by this initiative, which points to the law on the rights of Croatian defenders being adopted in the procedure prescribed for the adoption of organic law and the two-thirds majority, and to the rank of constitutional law. This is incorrect, because the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, set different levels for the adoption of certain legal norms, which are mostly adopted. Whether they are brought by a two-thirds majority, whether they are passed by a majority of all votes, whether they are passed by a majority of all votes from the total number of MPs, so the level of the majority that is passed by individual laws has nothing to do with the constitutional principle of equality of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75138	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75139	A school example of how it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75140	Thank you very much. Please don't throw it out of the bench. Let's move on, Sunny Glavak correction of an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When I corrected the incorrect allegations, you were actually apostrophysing it yourself, so I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Pusic, and the defenders came to press the words of my colleague Pusic. No, they came to hear our attitudes, I think because of some attitudes they're amazed, but of course in this House everyone has the right to say what they think and how they feel. They came as guests, just as they come here and many numerous civil associations, and never in this way do I think anyone who is present in the assembly has ever treated them. It is equally incorrect, I will repeat, although we will obviously have to repeat it all day long, that this is not an initiative of the Croatian Democratic Community, but 42 associations, but also what is true is that, as so far as Croatian defenders are concerned, they will say it with due respect, because after the steps of these people, freedom was born. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75142	Thank you. And now it's the honourable representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75143	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, I was offered by my colleague Pusic, who said it was about favouring a social group. Dear colleague Pusic, the truth is actually different. This is about the Defense Act becoming a constitutional category. This is about defenders without whom no one in the free Republic would be free and have no constitutional rights guaranteed. They are the ones who allowed me and you to sit here, and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia protects all social groups and all citizens. It's not about favoring anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75144	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75145	Well, counterpart Pusic has achieved several successes with her exposure. First, she managed to get some of the Croatian defenders out of the gallery, and the second one was able to say a few
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75146	Correction, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75147	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm coming to. That's why she said several incorrect allegations. But I'm only gonna one of those repeat her, obviously she didn't remember. First of all, she said this constitutional law was proposed for pre-election purposes. No, the initiative is respected, and we have already said that, the Croatian defenders who have defended and defended this country. They are not sold the horn under a candle as you sold it at your pre-election time when you promised 200 thousand jobs, and unemployment was like mushrooms after the rain at 389 thousand.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75148	Thank you. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I am correcting two incorrect allegations from my colleague Pusic, although they are already mostly corrected, but they should be repeated. It is incorrect that she told her colleague Pusic that the presence of Croatian defenders today at the gallery is pressuring. It is incorrect, because all Croatian citizens have the right to attend meetings of the Croatian Parliament as they are yesterday, today, and they can do so tomorrow when they are interested. Secondly, Mrs Pusic said that these changes are proposed for pre-election purposes, several times it has been repeated. Falsely, they are proposed after an initiative that started with associations of Croatian defenders, which is entirely their legitimate right. As is the legitimate right of the Croatian government to accept these initiatives, such as the legitimate right of our representatives in the Croatian Parliament to support them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75150	Thank you very much. There is a correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75151	Thank you very much. It is incorrect, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, that colleagues of Pusic are looking for more rights than the system guarantees women, mothers, children, young people, workers, disabled people and pensioners, as said counterpart Pusic. It's simply incorrect, and it doesn't stand. It does not stand primarily for the reason that Djakic said by correcting the allegations, because it is the defenders who are the most responsible, who have defended an independent and independent Republic. And there are no colleagues, Pusic, and because there are both mothers, defenders and children, defenders and workers, defenders and disabled people and pensioners and women. So, all those you called that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75152	Thank you very much. And the correction of an incorrect quote, the esteemed representative of Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75153	Here I am correcting the incorrect quote by my colleague Pusic means that this law violates the fundamental principles of equality of citizens. That's not true, my colleague. Just as the Law on the Rights of National Minorities does not violate the fundamental principles of equality of citizens, so this proposal does not do so. But then you did not dispute the fundamental principles of equality of citizens doing so now. You also said that defenders are just people. Is that worth it to the minorities? Either you think that national minorities have meanings or should have greater rights than mothers and children and students, but it is certainly your opinion from Croatian defenders who have caused such a revolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75154	Please don't throw it away! Please, dear representative Pusic, don't throw it out of the bench! ... Are you done? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your Honor, are you finished? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't talk any further, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're moving on, and now it's time for the guest of honor... I warned, so I followed the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you to reduce your passions a little bit, it'll be much better. Now it is up to the distinguished representative to correct the incorrect quote Nedeljka Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mrs. Pusic, all the people who came forward with the correcting of the incorrect quote are right here, and this quote I'm going to fix for you. As you said, of course incorrectly, that lifting to the level of the constitutional law of the rights of defenders of other citizens puts them in an unequal position. So you can't say it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure now. You have received many answers to the right answer, but what I really want to thank all our defenders, associations that came from the Homeland War, should also be pointed out more often that two thirds of our defenders during the Homeland War were both at the same time and in the status of exiles, and they know best what it meant to imitate life in persecution and the 2 days free that they had until they were on the ground living with their family members and with traces and traumas that remained deeply etched not only in their souls but also in the souls of their family members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75156	Thank you very much, time. Thank you. And now we're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75157	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Mr. Minister with an associate, respected representatives of defense associations. The HDZ is for the pride, honor and dignity of Croatian defenders, but is against the hypocrisy and Phariseeism of the HDZ government since 2004 on the subject of Croatian defenders. As one of the reasons for the adoption of this Constitutional Law, it has been said that there are specific and additional reasons to be assessed as justified and necessary for the adoption of this law. All of this would not be controversial if it were not a shameful fact that Croatian defenders only on paper represent that Croatian defenders only on paper represent the pride of their homeland, and in everyday life they are exposed to unprecedented persecution, humiliation, installation of political processes, equalising guilt with Serb aggressors, exposed to identification, location, arrest and transfer. What special and additional reasons for regulating the rights of Croatian defenders are we talking about in a special constitutional law at the same time as the leadership of the Croatian Parliament on the day of the verdict of Generals Gotovina and Markac wipes out Mark's square and then, not even after 19 days at the session held afterwards, refuses to talk about Croatia's future to the terrible findings of the Hague court which are the victorious, liberating operation of the Storm declared a joint criminal enterprise, condemning the postmortem not even Dr Franjo Tudjman, Defence Minister Gojko Šuška and war chief of the Chief Staff of Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The Hague has condemned the entire end of the Homeland War with a joint criminal enterprise, the leader of the first Croatian President's enterprise, and the Croatian Parliament and the Government have been silent or reluctant to speak a word of it. The special historical role of Croatian defenders, yes, and no one in the Croatian government blinked nor here in the Croatian Parliament from the ruling majority to the equally terrible and dangerous findings of the Croatian judiciary, which the Croatian defenders, the National Guard Assembly and the Croatian Army declared during 1991 illegal, paramilitary formations, evened them with Serb paramilitary formations until 8 October 1991 and declared them JNA only legal units. I quote: "Because at that time Croatia was still part of the SFRY because formal legal ties with the SFRY were severed on October 8th 91 according to then positive regulations, Croatia could not legally form its own armed forces. In such a situation, listen to HDZ members, at the end of 90th and under the leadership of the HDZ party, first there were armed forces, not aggression, armed conflicts of newly formed paramilitary Croatian troops with paramilitary armed forces formed by the rebel Serbs in the temporarily occupied areas and the conflict of the Croatian Armed Forces with the then-regulatory JNA military forces." This was written by the Croatian Court, a second quote: "According to the incriminating events, Croatia still did not have state status during November and December 1991, although the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia decided on 8 October 91 to break up the state legal ties with republics and provinces that formed the previous SFRY. Therefore, the armed conflicts that occurred during 1991 in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which included JNA on the enemy side as an army of SFRY had no international character and this was written by the Croatian Court of Justice. And what's even worse is this is a first-degree verdict and the Supreme Court has confirmed all these findings and gone and a step further with an even scarier finding. According to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, it was by decision of 8 October 1991 that the Republic of Croatia used its sovereign right to decide independently on state legal relations and associations to which accessions and from which the Republic of Croatia came as an independent and sovereign state, so it became independent only on 8 October of any other state and association of state. And listen well only from that moment on October 8th to every other country and every foreign army was clear that by performing military operations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it has been aggressive against the Republic of Croatia, against its citizens and its territories to wage a civil war. This was written by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. And what do we have today? We have the fact that representatives of the Croatian defenders are sitting, whether any of you are wondering that you were until 8 October 1991, armed rebels and destroyers of the constitutional order of the SFRY or defenders of the homeland for pride and honor for all time while there is a Croatian state. This is the constitutional foundation of the Republic of Serbia to persecute all of us who are dressed, as I am a Croatian volunteer uniform before 8 October 1991. If the ruling coalition, let's not fool ourselves, this is the HDZ proposal for pre-election purposes, if the ruling coalition cared about Croatian defenders would not locate, identify, arrest and transfer them. They wouldn't... charge them and arrest them one by one to court the European Union. This is just for the purpose of an election campaign. The support of individual defence associations is not controversial but it is also a fact that here, too, I am pleased to hear from you Mr. Djakic, the president of a large association that does not represent the way it should represent, those who should represent the disabled, but represents his personal interests and interests of the party to which he belongs. Constitutional law is proposed and the generals are in prison. The cities with the first line of defense marked us with cities protected by war crimes, from Split, Osijek, Gospić, Sibenik, we now have Pakrac, followed by Sisak will end with Vukovar. All our cities of heroes will be marked as cities that are defended on war crimes to the Croatian side. On the other hand, what kind of message we send to our children if we allow and kicks we see that every day more and more prisons are being held for Croatian defenders, heroes and generals and that at the same time in the Croatian Assembly, those who wore a Chetnik uniform are sitting. At the same time, those who have destroyed, burned and slaughtered in the Croatian state are subject to the abolization law, and Croatian defenders are subject to the law that they are war criminals because someone from Europe wants to do so by force. What kind of message we send to our children and to this today's draft constitutional law, which will be the constitutional law that, well said by Mrs Pusic, rarely when we agree but this time she said well. This Constitutional Law does not change the content of the rights of Croatian defenders, to change the content of the rights of Croatian defenders to change in terms of all Croatian defenders having to be apportioned, to abolish the abolition of those who burned and burned in the Croatian state, to say that they cannot be answered by someone who defended their home and homeland, then I would be first to such constitutional law. But apply the Constitutional Law only by raising the level of legal protection. Nothing better will be brought to the Croatian defenders because for tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or the month after, any of us who entered the Croatian state's defence defense can be found on the list of Serbian warrants and the question of whether we will have the fate of Velko Maric or Tihomir Purda. And the question is, how are we gonna end up in that case? What do we need special status for? Croatian defenders want to share fate with all other Croatian citizens because we are part of them and we do not want any special status, we do not want to be more equal because we did not fight for the state of such a state that we would like to be more equal. Unfortunately, there's more to this than all of us. They're the ones who were involved in the aggression that isn't here today. members of the SDSS party who is nothing more than a rebel Serb party. While you have the situation that the Ministry of Croatian Defence is in the 2011 state budget for this year compared to last year's decrease in budget by 115 million kuna compared to 2010. At the same time, it is silenced that the Government of the Republic of Croatia at closed sessions every three months gives the Joint Council of Vukovar and the Serbian National Council of Milorad Pupovac to print those embarrassing news weeks which mocks the Croatian president with horns and the first minister with vampire teeth, that every three months at closed sessions that the Croatian public and Croatian defenders do not know it, each three months gives a million 550 thousand kuna. The defenders cut the budget by 115 million kuna, and to Serbs and Chetniks, I am not talking about Serbs and the Serb national minority and they participated in the creation of the Croatian state, but those who were on the enemy side did not create the Croatian state. They fought against the Croatian state and were ready to kill each and every one of us and slaughter and put on a stake. As long as we keep quiet about it today, we want a special status. What will be our special status when the Serbs, the Chetniks, receive their abjects, and thus the money from the state budget, and we need to get constitutional law, and on the other hand we will be exposed to persecution and closures every day. Gotovina, Markac, Norac, Glavas, Croatian generals, Homeland War heroes are already in prison. Mercep is in custody, followed by the announcement of Mr. Brodarac and his assistant Mr. Milinkovic's arrest as well. While we're watching what's going on, we're talking about a constitutional law that will change this constitutional law on our rights? It's really nothing. You are disturbed by gentlemen from the ruling coalition as far as I hear from the statements and pictures of Croatian generals of the Homeland War in the premises of the Croatian Parliament. Someone said if there weren't any defenders, there wouldn't be any of us here. It's true. Who is disturbed by the images of Croatian heroes and Croatian generals, and we are talking about raising the level of protection of Croatian defenders? The function of this proposal is nothing more than an open talk, but to neutralise the shameful and terrible Hague verdicts, the terrible and incredible equally dangerous judgments of the Croatian judiciary. It is necessary to neutralize the persecution of Croatian defenders who will soon follow. We are not against those who are and may there be forgiveness. If it is true for them, it must also be true for Croatian defenders. This is what you give us in the new Law on the Croatian Defence, and it may also be ordinary does not have to be constitutional, then there is no one who will not raise a hand for it. That's what you give us. And as long as we don't talk about it instead of constitutional law, here I suggest you free us our generals, stop Satanizing us all together and equating with the aggressors, persecute the Chetniks, don't let the Chetniks sit in the Croatian Parliament. Whoever was in the SAO province in their government has no right to sit here in the Croatian Parliament. That's my attitude. Who agreed or disagreed. During that time, our generals are in prison. Don't sell us the EU for Judas's scum. The constitutional law will not bring back Croatian Generals Gotovina and Markac, Mirko Norca and Branimir Glavas from prisons that are just with the blessing of the ruling majority of HDZ are there today. And I have to say in the end. It was nice to listen to the opening when Mr. Josip Djakic explained this proposal, but I have already said what I think about how he behaves his duty. But it is degutant that this bill represents and proposes a person who will be remembered in Croatian history by locating, identifying, arresting and transferring. After all he's done to prosecute General Gotovina and Markac, Mr. Seks is packed with Glavas and has the least right to speak more about the rights of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75158	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I did not interrupt you during your debate, however, so many insults and rude words that are unorthodox in our House are not good that we bring them out here, no matter what attitude you have and thinking. You can't take them out in public. We now have one injury from Poslovnik, the distinguished representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It refers to Article 214. Therefore, all parties in the Croatian Parliament have chosen voters in this country, so citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia and cannot and in my opinion it is absolutely against this provision of the Rules of Procedure to offend them in the debate. The rest is a matter of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75160	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting Article 209, that's right, that's right. If you'd said SDSS, then I wouldn't have answered. So I'm correcting an incorrect quote, she was correcting me, and she wasn't correcting something I said. Mrs Pusic, when I spoke about representatives of the SDSS sitting here in the Croatian Parliament, I did not talk about the citizens who chose them, they chose the citizens from their national minority list.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75162	Your Honor!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75163	But still so much that those who were members of the SAO government do not have the right to sit in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75164	Your Honor, you've been going with the correction of an incorrect quote, and you've committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. And secondly, you can't go to the Rules of Procedure with a correction, you can't. ... You can't, you can't. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now on behalf of the promoter, that is, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Tomislav Ivic, Minister of Defence, Family and Intergenerational Solidarity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to correct a whole series of incorrect allegations and data that have been presented like this that 115 million kuna has been cut into the rights of Croatian defenders. It's just not the right information. It is about funds that have been saved at the level of the entire ministry, therefore related to both family and intergenerational solidarity. And I will remind the honourable representative that no law of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence has been abolished or any reduction in this regard. And what I would certainly like to say is that the relationship with Croatian defenders is not measured by words but by deeds. And I will remind the distinguished representative of the Osijek-Baranja County in which he is the party from which he comes to power, how he treats defenders on two picturesque examples. One competition for the reception of trainees in the county service last year was when you were gathered in that county where five children of the dead Croatian defenders, for whom I personally wrote a recommendation because they asked me to do so, and under the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, have an advantage under equal employment conditions. The result was that none of the children of the late Croatian defenders were received but probably party listeners and similars were received. And I will also remind myself of a case from Valpov or Valpovšina where associations from the Homeland War, several of them, erected the mention in memory of all the dead Croatian defenders and all the defenders who, with weapons in their hands, defended their country in the 107th brigade of the Croatian Army. Against the act, the County of Osijek-Baranja initiated a court dispute and when the court ruled that the associations had fully legitimately raised the mention, they filed a complaint against the verdict. So much for what's said and the other is what's in the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75166	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Dinko Buric. What's the injury?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75167	The injury, according to a colleague, is in Article 209 in conjunction with Article 214. Mr. Minister, make sure that you address the MPs and that you are not here to give us lessons and to correct our incorrect allegations. I'll tell you, Mr. Minister, when you've said this, I'll just say a few things. In connection with the competition, the HDZ government has just prescribed that they have children's rights on equal terms. We make such decisions by obeying the laws. All under equal conditions, children of Croatian defenders are received. If they do not have the same conditions, then you can see that we are taking care of the respect of Croatian laws. When it comes to what you mentioned, the lies you made here, about that Osijek-Baranja County was against the mention of the mark.../The speaker excluded./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75168	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Switching to individual Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Upadica Burić: Home of Health Valpovo, not Osijek-Baranja County...]] Thank you very much. ... [[Intruder Buric: And it would be better, Mr. Minister, to explain to the Croatian public how it was possible that two days ago...]] Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] We're going to individual... Your Honor! ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your Honor, your time is up. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You can't talk any further! ... You can't talk any further! ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your Honor! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please! Stop talking any further because I told you you couldn't, you're out of time. [[Intruder Buric: You changed that after you found out that I found out and that I would ask you that.]] Please. Hold on to your time. Please! [[Intruder Buric: The minister can't talk nonsense and not give me the chance to answer him.]] I'm giving you a heads-up about not sticking to the Rules of Procedure. And we're moving on to an individual debate. Please don't make me talk any further. [[/Intruder Buric: We accept. Let him teach a lesson somewhere else, not us here.]] Don't do that. You are obstructing the work of the Parliament. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75169	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed representatives of the defense attorneys. .../The noise in the Assembly./... I'd like an extra minute at the end for this. Well, first of all, I find it particularly difficult to listen to the politicalization of the concept of Croatian defenders, the rude, uncivilized debate when it comes to one topic that should be for us all the world's sanctity, which is Croatian defenders and their rights. It's the only topic we shouldn't be diverged on. Unfortunately, we see an announcement of a very deep division between us. Why do I think Croatian defenders with their rights should enter the Constitution? The constitution is always defined as a set of fundamental values of a country. If defenders are not the fundamental value of the Croatian state, then I don't know what that is. And precisely because they are the foundation of this state they should be in the Constitution with their rights, not because we would suspect that tomorrow someone will abolish them rather than because the fundamental value of their life's work is the historical value and it deserves a place in the most important document of a state like the Constitution. Who are the defenders? The defenders are people who responded first to Serbian balvanas in August of the 1990s, defenders of people who responded to the bloody Easter, who responded to the first attack by a Serb-run attack with the weapons of the Yugoslav People's Army against the papal police. Croatian defenders are those who did not fear a more powerful armed army. Croatian defenders are those who did not bow down even when the then communist leaders handed over the weapons of territorial defence to the aggressor. They didn't stop even when the Security Council banned the supply of weapons knowing we were weak and unarmed. These are Croatian defenders because they decided then with hunting rifles almost bare-handed to oppose the force. And while some fled to America to sleep over the war there, they fled to European countries while hiding in different functions to God in the service of the state, and in fact to flee from the front and to flee from the front lines until the defenders made available everything they had of their lives, their health, their families, their friends, their existence. And these are Croatian defenders based on whose back someone here is arguing politically today. Croatian defenders have also resisted severe crises caused by our internal ranks. Let us only remember when Mr. Martin Špegelj headed with some JNA officers who moved on to the Croatian side wanted to aggressively push against the military stations at the time to lose the war. At that time, we were not ready for such a war. We were not ready for any number, no organizational, no weapons, no economics. Let's remember the attempt of the parliamentary coup between Stipe Mesic and Manolic when 30% of the Croatian state was occupied. That history doesn't remember, but our defenders didn't stop then. And then they got the courage, the abilities and the patriotism to endure and they hit them internally. Why would they do that? Because they had an organization, because they had Doctor Francis Tudjman's superior, because they had First War Minister Mr. Gok Šushko. Thanks to these two people, these internal problems have also been overcome internally. The war was waged wisely thanks to them. I remember when he asked me in General Rushett's negotiations, so fine, Minister, if you're going to fight or negotiate. The defenders had confidence in the leadership they knew when to fight, and when to negotiate that there would be no vain sacrifices. These are defenders who understood what was happening in those moments, who had the courage and the strength to resist it, and today they should not listen to any debates that they had to listen to here today. These are the people who have endured the death of their comrades, the separation from their families, the wounding, the difficult times of economic crisis at the time of the aggression of the Croatian state that endured persecution, and yet remain worthy, worthy to give them a place in the Croatian Constitution today. Which, however, supports this thesis that they should be in the Constitution. Unfortunately, today they still have resistance to the idea of their sovereignty, their human, moral, and historical rights to acknowledge these services. Unfortunately, in many areas where there are some who were squatting under the table at the time and waiting for what and how it would end in this Homeland War. In those environments, these defenders don't even have their own monument, they don't have the monuments of their superior Dr. Francis Tudjman. Shame on the capital of the Croatian city of Zagreb and its leadership. I was in a big place the other day, I could say a big place. It is the Museum of Homeland War on Srđ on the top of Dubrovnik, a place where Serbian and Montenegrin aggressors sought their anger on a pearl called Dubrovnik. Today there is the Croatian Defence Museum. Go upstairs with a wire and look for it. No mark, no arrow, no sign. If you will resist then you will come through the dust to one of the ruins of an old fort raised in the days of Napoleon. And in it you will see defenders who have exhibited images of the defense of the city of Dubrovnik in three wet rooms. These pictures are made with moisture, the frames are rusty. All items exposed are bathed in crumbs of their own rust because the mayor of Dubrovnik does not give the status of the museum, because it does not give these minimal financial resources to these defenders to show their dignity. And that's why they need to be put in the Constitution so that this constitution will be a bond, obligation and those who don't like defenders and those who thought differently from defenders in the Homeland War. And that's why they belong in the Constitution. And if we could change the Constitution to change the name of this High House from the Croatian National Assembly to the Croatian Parliament. If we could change the Constitution to abolish a home to this House, if we could change the Constitution to delete Statehood Day, if we had to change and change the Constitution for many other things that serve us, I ask you to change the Constitution once for the honour and dignity of Croatian defenders, and that means the Croatian state, because you must not forget who was first when you were supposed to. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75170	Thank you. We have three replicas. First is the distinguished representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, as president of the club, hebrang has clearly confirmed the the thesis for which we approach the amendment of the Constitution and for which we support the initiative of the defender who came from the party population as I said by the name and last name who the creators and authors of this initiative are and this submission to the Croatian Assembly. And I certainly want to say that there is no HDZ or hypocrisy in support of the Croatian Democratic Community club this proposal. There is no degutancy in the statements that we presented all of what we wanted to do for the needs of Croatian defenders. My personal involvement is also covered by my support in the second term of HVIDRA of the Republic of Croatia. It wasn't you who chose me, it was these honorable men who were sitting up here. On the other hand, I would like to highlight many more things that, as a dissuasive patient, are constantly trying to insinuate this Assembly with something quite third and something that has no self-restraint, no sense or moment to talk about today. We are talking about constitutional changes and the law that will become and will bring one stability, security, the future in their lives, as well as their children, parents and families to Croatian defenders. You do not recognize it for many reasons that Mr. Hebrang, together with a shift, knows that at certain times, some of those who oppose the adoption of such constitutional changes that speak of degutancy, HDZ, hypocrisy were certainly never, and today they can agree with Pusićka because they were probably in common support of the Yugoslav movement because their relatives were in Chetnic order, and today they call as to God some Chetniks in the Croatian Parliament, and so in order not to list everything that happened in the heads of those individuals who were also Pharisees, and hypocrites, and who were never in the defense of sovereignty, but were mobilized there to be because they had avoided military obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75172	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75173	... They're recognizable to their clothes in the '90s. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75174	Thank you very much, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75175	When they're trapped in the station of the Ossetian military station.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75176	Time. Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75177	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Djakic, you must understand why you are a thorn in the eye of those who did not like the creation of this country, they do not love you because you care about the disabled of the Homeland War, because you represent the interests of Croatian defenders because you represent the foundations of Croatian statehood. That's why they're attacking you. It's clear to you, and that's why you insist on working on what we all work on together by passing this constitutional law we must insist on defending our defenders. Because don't forget, our defenders today have those rights that the government has imposed on them with its legal decisions, but in society they have no rights because they deny them, deny most of the media, most of the media about Croatian defenders speak in a negative context, the constitutional framework would force them to stick to the Constitution, most of the media is talking about defenders only when someone from the over-demand of the necessary defense has committed evil, and of course we should process it if we are a legal state, but it can't dominate the titles of our media texts and our electronic media, but we should also watch our children learn about heroism. We need to teach them what those defenders did in '90, '91. '95. years so that these children can learn from textbooks today, but not learn about these defenders, but learn about all other parts of our history, just not about the most important, which is the Homeland War, and therefore should be put together with their rights of the Constitution, let us hope that those who are not happy that Croatia tried to stick to at least the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75178	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75179	Dear Mr. Hebrang, I'm going to ask you a question instead of replication. Whether these textbooks will stand as was the case in the judgment of the County Court in Zagreb 8.5. ... the following year, and it's about the situation in Osijek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since Croatia was still part of the SFRY at the time, according to the positive legal regulations it could not legally form its own armed forces, etc., because all these people were in the '91s. the years declared the destroyers, those dungeons of the Croatian people of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Will those textbooks say that both General Glavas and Norac and Gotovina and Markac are war criminals? Will it say that Mladic has done a humane and positive work in Skabrnja, Kiev, all this has happened to what our Croatian court says. Not The Hague. Will it be said that the first Croatian president is Dr. Franjo Tudjman was the leader of an organized criminal enterprise? I will remind you that you have fought so hard for this last amendment to the Constitution and constitutional law, when this House was to pass... The community that they're right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75180	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75181	I'm sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75182	That's not what you're talking about. About that. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75183	Don't take this session the way it suits you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75184	That's not what Hebrang was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75185	I'll be done very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75186	It's not... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75187	When you wanted to allow them to have the right to special funding, special territorial status.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75188	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75189	Status, and they practically wanted to, you clapped when I warned you about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75190	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75191	The ladies from Sibenik. We clapped.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75192	Thank you very much. You're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75193	And they wanted to recreate the SAO landscape.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75194	Thank you very much. You're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75195	Mr. Stanimirović, Mr. Jarnjak, '96. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75196	I'm giving you a heads-up, stick to the Rules of Procedure. ... Thank you very much. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75197	Meeting for a peaceful reintegration... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75198	Your time is up. Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75199	And he was wearing a Chetnik uniform during the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75200	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75201	That's who he was sitting in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75202	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75203	And he claimed he was in the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75204	I'm giving you a second warning, and I'm taking away your word on this wheel.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75205	... [[The speaker doesn't understand, speaks at the same time as the vice president.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75206	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75207	... Dr. [[Specially enabled.]] Vojislav Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75208	I took your word, you can't speak any further. ... Your Honor. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75209	They were sitting under four letters of S.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75210	You can't sit down. I took your word. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75211	... Protection. [[Specially enabled.]] These laws that now apply can only be solved with a two-thirds... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75212	Please be a gentleman. ... I'm interrupting the session, and I'm asking for the honourable representative to be removed from this session due to the disabling of the work of the Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. We continue the session, the reply to the replica, the distinguished representative of Andri Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75213	Well, Mr. Vice President, I'm actually embarrassed to answer to a representative like this, who insults the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Rules of Procedure, insults these honorable defenders and before them the Parliament for which they poured their blood on such a mockery, so I will refrain from the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75214	Thank you. And we have another replica, distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75215	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a distinguished colleague of Hebrang, you mentioned that it is a shame of the city of Zagreb that there is no monument to the first Croatian president. I agree with you, but it is equally a shame that the ruling majority of HDZ has not written in one word about that shameful act in the Serbian weekly "News" where the first Croatian president shows himself with the horns and teeth of the vampire, and that we have not heard the manifestation of the HDZ summit, nor the parliamentary representatives over the terrible and embarrassing findings of The Hague judgment condemned by the first Croatian president. I heard Mr. Hebrang during my debate that you whispered to Mr. Shakespeare whether it was true what he was reading. True, unfortunately, Mr Hebrang, the quotes I spoke about the findings of the Croatian court, the ruling of the County Court and the Supreme Court, and you gentlemen from the defense associations, were findings from the ruling of the Croatian General Branimir Glavas to whom the Croatian court had written that he had commanded paramilitary formations, but not only him, declared that in the entire territory of the Republic, not only in Osijek, ZNG and the Croatian Army were illegal formations. I'm asking a question, Mr. Hebrang, why are we celebrating June 25th now? We announce the grand celebration of Statehood Day, 20. The anniversary of Statehood Day. What are we gentlemen to celebrate on June 25th, if the Croatian court has written that we were part of the SFRY on June 25th? That we only became a state on October 8, 1991?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75216	Thank you very much. Your time is up. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75217	Don't give me him... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75218	Please! ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang. ... Your Honor, you can't, so don't do it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. Honorable representative of Andrija Hebrang, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75219	Don't, they'll kick you out, I won't have anyone to answer to. Be polite. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75220	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75221	Just keep an eye on who you were defending when you were a lecturer of general defense and social self-defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75222	Please don't throw it away. ... Here you are, dear representative Hebrang. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative, Honorable Representative Buric [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75223	Today's Croatian defence minister then said he does not want to join the Ustasha party. Here, that's the Croatian defender.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75224	Your Honor... Dear Representative Buric, I give you a second warning by taking away the words at this point. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Now, here you go, Reverend Hebrang, proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75225	So I am not speaking out of respect for you, but I am speaking to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and I am ashamed to have you act as both a representative and a fellow doctor, but I will answer you anyway. As far as your remarks were concerned, where we were with the comments of the Hague verdicts. We were in a legal state called the Republic of Croatia and in which the executive or legislative authority does not comment on judicial judgments but believes in the judiciary, believes in justice and believes that a mistake in that judgment will be corrected. The same goes for our court's quote. I really didn't see that quote anywhere, I looked it up on the Internet, and I didn't find it. I've been looking online... Excuse me, I have my word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I asked for it online, I didn't find it. If it says in there that all of us who defended Croatia by October 8th have worked against the law, then I will personally proceed as a citizen against that court and that verdict. But I must be sure of that because it is a violation of the fundamental rights of the Croatian state and of its citizens on defence. And that's why we're going to do it, but by law, not as rude as you are, incorrectly and insulting not only the representatives but also these honorable people at the gallery.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75226	Thank you very much. That's when we finished our morning session. We continue at 15.00 hours I believe in a more decent and quiet tone especially than the gallery where our defenders are located. The first is the honourable representative Ivo Grbić. Thank you very much. Dear MPs and MPs continue to discuss the point of the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. As I have announced, the guest of honor is Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75228	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that I support the proposal for the establishment of a draft Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System by act of 8 June 2011. On 27 May 2011, the Croatian Parliament recently adopted a decision on the accession of the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to a proposal for a decision on accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its act of 21 April 2011 in a section proposing that the rights of Croatian defenders be governed by the Constitutional Law adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws by the two-thirds majority of votes. The existing Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, which governed the rights of Croatian defenders from 2004 with amendments and additions in 2005, 7th, 9th and 10th years, was adopted in a regular procedure with an ordinary majority of votes. Given that the basis for the establishment and defence of state sovereignty and territorial integrity was a successful defence in a fair, defensive and liberating home war, which was firstly presented by Croatian defenders, all assumptions were made for the coherent development of the Republic of Croatia as a country that accepts the democratic standards of the modern world and opens up a number of approaches to this world in political, security, economic and cultural terms. The Croatian people and citizens of the Homeland War confirmed their determination and willingness to establish and preserve the Republic of Croatia as an independent and independent sovereign and democratic state. Deeply respecting the historical role of Croatian defenders in the creation and defence of the Republic of Croatia, the need to protect the rights of Croatian defenders is imposed by constitutional law as the organic law of the highest rank in the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, the role and importance of Croatian defenders was also recognised in the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 to the additions of Chapter 1 of the original basis and the subparagraph of 13. In addition, given the upcoming accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union as an independent and sovereign state in internationally recognised borders where freedom, equality and respect for human rights and the rule of law are some of the highest values of constitutional order, as well as that in this year it ends 20 years from the declaration of independence of the Republic of Croatia. The contribution and role of Croatian defenders in the establishment and preservation of the Republic of Croatia have invaluable importance and meaning and show the justified and necessary regulation of the rights of Croatian defenders by special constitutional law. For all these reasons, I support the proposal to lay down the draft Constitutional Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which establishes that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences is adopted in the procedure prescribed for the adoption of organic laws by the two-thirds majority of all MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75229	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Branko Vukelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75230	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here this morning, and now my colleague Grbić was talking about the reasons why this proposal should be supported, the defence initiative for this Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence to be the Constitutional Law to be passed by a two-thirds majority as an organic law, and I will also support this proposal. NO, in a number of these arguments, there is another argument that says that we really need to establish the law on the rights of Croatian defenders as constitutional law. I will quote one of the leaders of the opposition party who has not often been seen here in this assembly, who said about the Croatian Defence Initiative. I quote: "We guarantee all defenders a steady and affirmative relationship. The constitution is not the price of gasoline to change every Monday. What about the unemployed, the fishermen, the farmers, the ones who work and don't get paid. Is it going to be constitutional law? This is an unserious proposal." I believe you're guessing it's about Zoran Milanovic, the president of the SDP, he's been showing himself this way on the proposal and initiative of the defenders and the proposal of the Croatian government and here today's proposal we're discussing and he called the unserious Croatian defenders, or their unserious proposal. This SDP statement is indeed in favour of the need for real courage for all of us in this assembly and I would say transparency and support this proposal and that the Croatian Defence Act is the Constitutional Law because this manifestation of Zoran Milanovic, this SDP manifestation, actually speaks a lot first of all about their hypocrisy. Because if they are said to guarantee all defenders a fair and affirmative relationship then obviously they forget or have a very short memory of their rule from 2000 to 2003 when they reduced the basis for a personal family disability, when they reduced orthopaedic allowance, when they reduced the invalid family pensions from 8% to 20%, when they abolished the rights to care services and assistance to Croatian wartime disabled persons 100%, first groups or worse when they failed to comply with the laws of repealing the status of wartime invalids and their permanent rights, so the rulings of the Constitutional Court 4280 cases were lost and damages were done to the Republic of Croatia. Likewise, they failed to comply with the legal obligation to assign their personal cars to 100% of the disabled of the first group. So, they don't say in a word that they won't do it anymore, that they will respect the laws, that they will respect what the Croatian defenders did in the Homeland War but say that they guarantee the defenders a fair and affirmative relationship. It is also said that the Constitution is not the price of gasoline to change every Monday is actually saying clearly that the SDP thinks that the law or that the rights of Croatian defenders are actually the same as the price of gasoline, so it can be changed whenever the majority of the parliament or which government wishes it to do so, which I think again clearly speaks about their position, because it seems to me that we should all not only speak out, that the defenders who are the foundation of Croatian freedom and independence are, but also that by works and laws and their rights we guarantee that they will therefore be respected and achieved as well as the law and drawn it. Likewise, when we heard in the assembly today, other groups in our society are mentioned, so when we mention fishermen, farmers, unemployed, those who work do not receive wages, then we should remind that defenders are those who are unemployed, that even defenders are those who are fishermen, that there are defenders among farmers, that even among those who work and do not get paid there are defenders, and that we cannot compare these groups with defenders, because the defenders are all you and in all the pores of our society. And it should finally be reminded of what Minister Ivić often said 80% of defenders do not receive any fees or benefits of any kind, nor any gain, and many of them have told you all as well as I do that they do not ask the Croatian state for anything, no kuna, no lip, no privilege, but ask for a fair relationship, they ask for respect for what they loved their country, what they loved their country and what they stood for in the defense of that country. And that's why I don't know who today's question is whether to turn the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence into constitutional law. Likewise, when we talk about the law that is now in force, all its supplements, then it should be said, this is what Minister Ivić said today that the law was passed in 2004, that the force since 1.1.2005, that on several occasions it has been completed, and that this law was made in cooperation with associations, so with Croatian defenders, that he best responds to everything they need, what their needs are and finally what they belong to. And for me today is really not the question here why turn the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence into a constitutional law, which we decide by a two-thirds majority. For me today, it's a question of why someone isn't up to it. What's the reason? What are those not afraid of turning the Croatian Defence Act into constitutional law? Do they doubt the prudence of Croatian defenders? Today we've heard that if there's no money, if there's a situation in the future in a few years who knows what kind of money we're not going to be able to comply with our financial obligations under that law, then what are we going to do? So should it be reminded that Croatian defenders were the first to accept the invitation of Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor at a time of crisis and recession, taking a reduction in their pensions, and stopping to bear the same burden of the crisis as everyone else. Do we doubt that? Or do we doubt all the other us who are in the House that we will not be in such a situation when we estimate that there is no possibility of a state budget undermining all these rights, that we will not say that we are going to change the law, because by this act, when the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences becomes a constitutional law, it does not mean that this law cannot be changed. This just means that it will not be possible to change when someone remembers, but that they will need to talk to Croatian defenders' associations and talk to all parties in Parliament about what and how we want to change it. Therefore, I repeat once again, will support and support this initiative by Croatian defenders, the Government's proposal to establish the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences as constitutional law and to decide on it as an organic law by a two-thirds majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75231	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75232	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75233	And I apologize, first of all, for Mario Habek's correction. Here you go. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75234	Thank you. Well, I will correct my colleague Vukelic's incorrect quote. Zoran Milanovic has never said that defenders are inconclusive, as you have just stated. I can tell you're making lies here in the Croatian Parliament. I can also say that you are as insecure as this government is because these changes only work for political purposes, i.e. because of the choices that are coming, and after that you will forget all Croatian defenders again for four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75235	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Now it's the honorary representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75236	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives and representatives of the home war associations. A few words as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, as a Croatian defender, a volunteer of the Homeland War, as well as the mayor of the town of Pakrac and a member of the coordination of 12 associations of the countries of the Homeland War Pakrac and Lipik, related to the proposal to establish a draft constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I haven't met any defenders, none of the victims of the Homeland War, none of the representatives of the association in these past days, months since this law has been seriously discussed, since it was launched, and the procedure against this law. I believe that I share the opinion of a large number of Croatian defenders, were organised in the Association of the People's War, were defenders by the status of non-members of associations, I believe that we share on this side of the assembly the opinion of a large number of families of Croatian defenders, wives, children, parents, a large number of friends of the dead defenders, and also a large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are all thinking together in a way that this is not an electoral law, this is not a pre-election law, we have information about all the activities that the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been carrying out since 2003, and in 2004, and all the infrequentities that occurred in the years before 2004, changed, the current Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families in Croatia, and all those who have been violated against the damage to Croatian defences, which has been changed to the damage to Croatian war, members of the families who have been killed in Croatia, and have a faired their status. So they are not just legal activities here in the election year before the parliamentary elections, but the law is harmonised year after year, the rights of different Croatian defenders, the participants of the Homeland War, each year there are different legal acts on the agenda, we are dealing with it and we are bringing these legal standards I believe in the interests of these very groups of Croatian defenders, members of their families, members of the families of the dead Croatian defenders. Today, too, we have before us a proposal that regulates the rights of Croatian defenders by the constitutional law adopted in the procedure for the adoption of organic laws, meaning the two-thirds majority of the votes. They say colleagues from the opposition that we've been a little rough with them, that we should have talked them into it a little bit, that maybe we should've gone for a cup of coffee and convinced them that this is a good law, and not to go on such a decided, harshly and clearly when we defend the law that's here today in front of us. So there is no need to urge anyone, so everyone in their right mind will accept the adoption of such a law, who takes care of Croatian defenders, who respects the Homeland War, who in a special way shares the feelings of the families of the dead Croatian defenders, and needs to clearly and decidently say we are from the reasons we heard from the minister, Croatian defenders, from the promoters, from the associations that proposed the adoption of this law. And there's no one to starve and look after and persuade to pass a law like this, so it's clear to everyone. Who can be against a law like this? Just as it is clear and white who can and can support the adoption of this law. All of this here, which stands in reason, of course, with the special role of Croatian defenders in the creation and defence of the Republic of Croatia, should also be regulated by this constitutional law. And I think it's a point of 20 years and after 20 years, in which we mark 20 years of independence and independence of the Republic of Croatia, to put the point of Croatian defenders as one constitutional category with special rights in that year after all these laws and legal changes, because I think Croatian defenders and members of their families deserve it. This will be proof of an honest relationship with Croatian defenders, members of their families, it will be a final one of thanks and a gift to all the dead Croatian defenders, all Croatian defenders, all the victims of the Homeland War. It will be an expression of one merit precisely in this House of higher education that the Croatian Parliament says these are our Croatian defenders, they deserve to be placed in the Croatian Constitution. Without them there would be no Croatian state, there would be no 20 years of independence, there would be neither this Croatian Parliament nor our Croatian Constitution. That is why I think it is clear to everyone that no one should be persuaded to accept this law and I believe that in this year, when we mark 20 years of independence, the independence of the Republic of Croatia in this very way we will thank the Croatian defenders, the dead Croatian defenders, the members of their families. I will take advantage of the opportunity because there is no meeting next week for all Croatian defenders, to give all Croatian citizens my congratulations. Congratulations on what we've done in the last 20 years since the start of the Homeland War 01.03.'91. Just in my Pakrac attack on the Police Station until today, and here on the occasion of June 25th Statehood Day, which this year we celebrate 20 times in a free and independent Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75237	Thank you. It's your honor, Mr. Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75238	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that by applying for this debate, I have otherwise conceived my debate by just trying to point out the positive things that will happen if this bill is adopted as a constitutional law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their family. However, I must admit that the debate on behalf of the clubs that was led in this assembly has been embarrassingly surprising for me as the Croatian defenders of campers and volunteers because a sentence which absolutely does not stand and I cannot agree with, and I also believe that most Croatian defenders, which is that Croatian defenders are a burden for future generations, that the laws that come to Croatian defenders and members of their families, are something that will lead to the collapse of this country and that this will be the reason and cause why we will not be better. I have to say here clearly and decidently that no one has made a fortune by consummating the rights of the Croatian defenders' rights. However, that many Croatian defenders and members of their family are protected by this law, it certainly stands. We also have in front of us, on the benches we received, despite this proposal, a report on the implementation of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, which the Ministry has granted us, and only by reading this report can one of the very important and reasoned things that actually confirms these words that I have been saying so far be seen. The program of professional training and employment of Croatian defenders and children of the deadly victims, prisoners and missing Croatian defenders has been very successful since 2004. A total of 209 million and 392 thousand kuna were spent in the implementation of the 2 programmes so far for the period 2004-2007 and 2008-2011. During the 2004 professional training measure, 2,268 Croatian defenders and children of the mortally injured, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders were trained, mainly for deficiting occupations. Through the self-employment measure, a total of 4 173 people have been assisted. Over 600 jobs have been preserved through a small or medium-sized entrepreneurship lending measure. By subsidising interest of 508 subsidy users, another 389 were realised. Through the initiative of the establishment of Croatian defenders' cooperatives since 2004, the establishment of 336 Croatian defence cooperatives since 2004 has now been supported by 469 cooperatives with more than 2 900 members and more than 3 100 co-operatives, and... there are 3 reference centres for cooperatives. Each fourth cooperative in the Republic of Croatia is a defence cooperative. The work of 51 cooperatives is also encouraged through a measure to support Croatian defence cooperative projects. It is also employed through the implementation of the programme of more than 15 500 Croatian defenders and children of the dead Croatian defenders, while another 1,200 will be employed in 2011. The Croatian Defence Fund was also established in which the government, which is now worth more than 2 billion kuna, and the profit in last year was 215 million kuna. Also, on the basis of the existence of this fund, the Fund for the Scholarship of Children of Defence and for the work of the Croatian Defence from the Homeland War Foundation has been provided. In 2006, a total of 41 000 031 scholarships amounting to 240 million kunas, etc., were allocated since that fund was established. What exactly do I mean by this quote? I would like to say that there is absolutely no thesis that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences gives rise to the privileges of more than most Croatian defenders do today, which is not of 500 thousand defenders as many as are registered, which are not all on the burden of the state budget, which is not all on the burden of employees and that their children are not also on burden but are allowed through education to preserve their dignity. I think there is no more tragic situation than when the family runs out of foster parents and it is our moral obligation to these children and to all those who are the victims of war that we have an obligation and cannot possibly understand some colleagues who here say that by raising the status of the Constitutional Law in some way we will block the development of the Republic of Croatia. I think this is enough arguments to support this bill and, as such, I will support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75239	Thank you. It's time for the Honorable Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75240	Vice President of Parliament, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will immediately make it clear that I support the proposal that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War become a constitutional category. Raising the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences to the level of organic law will allow its provisions to be implemented consistently. The proposal made on the initiative of defense associations is a proposal and the desire of all defenders and we know well what the defenders meant in the Homeland War, and created and defended our country. The Homeland War should be sacred to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the rights of defenders must be guaranteed regardless of any election and to me incomprehensible attitudes of our people such as colleagues Cain and others in today's debate and, of course, because of such attitudes, an initiative of all defenders whose rights cannot be changed as anyone remembers and when anyone remembers. I will be very pleased to support the change of the Constitution because, as a Croatian defender and volunteer of the Homeland War, I know well what all Croatian defenders have been through during the Homeland War and how many victims they have suffered, as well as the number of dead and wounded Croatian defenders whose blood is soaked in the Croatian country. This should be considered by all MPs when voting on the proposal of this Act, of course I have no dilemma I will support the adoption of such a legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75241	Thank you. It's our guest, Daniel SRb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to start by saying that I will support this Bill proposal because the Croatian Party of Rights has always been particularly sensitive when it comes to the problems of Croatian defenders and the situation but this is an opportunity to talk about the position of Croatian defenders today in Croatian society with the support of this Bill. In fact, they can certainly be greatly dissatisfied with the fact that those as part of the population who are particularly concerned with the Croatian state are systematically Stigmatizing, criticising and constantly wanting to create the impression that the population that is actually spending is a burden on society. On the contrary, it should also be said to all in Croatia who often speak of a large number of defenders according to the lists that 90% of all Croatian defenders still work neatly today, some doctors, some of them engineers, some of them industrial workers, some of them farmers, so people live and work out of their profession today and are in no way the burden of Croatian society, that is 90% of Croatian defenders. There is truth in Croatia of the disabled Homeland War who have certain rights, to which very often a large part of the Croatian public is being destroyed, creating the impression that they are also a burden of Croatian society, but precisely those who raise such questions do not ask any other questions. How is it possible that today 75 years after 2. The World War has an identical number of Partisan pensioners and people with disabilities from the Homeland War. As possible, so 75 years after the end of 2. There are so many users of Partisan pensions. Whether a particular revision of this particular population should be made to see whether there may be a false partisans among them, whether there are real persons who are not alive and who receive Partisan pensions, many of them do not live in the Republic of Croatia and Croatia at the moment are not even available information whether pensions are paid to non-existent persons. So these are all certain problems that are affecting Croatian defenders and, of course, it offends them when they are put into one segment of the impression that Croatian defenders are a burden of society. But the defenders are not satisfied with that alone, the defenders are dissatisfied with the fact that the uncritical application of the General Forgiveness Act has also forgiven war crimes against persons who have committed and are responsible for a number of terrible Homeland War crimes that are not being prosecuted today. They are not being prosecuted for this famous Law of General Forgiveness but which has been unlawfully applied. For this reason, what needs to be done in Croatian society is one revision of the application of this Law on General Forgiveness, so while on the one hand, every detail is placed on the other hand by those who were members of the enemy Chetnician and other teams enjoying full protection, they are subject to the Law of General Forgiveness whether they were involved in war crimes or not. And that's something that needs to be done as well. On the other hand, this bill should not be a cover for making some other decisions that are being made at the moment in Croatia. Therefore, it cannot be a smoke screen behind which will hide the possibility of ensuring legal personality to a joint council of municipalities with the Serb majority in Croatia that can lead to the creation of a para-state in Croatia is also a major danger. Croatian defenders should also have their own square in Zagreb. Almost all Croatian cities have the Square of Croatian defenders, it is not Zagreb. It is also to be considered to support the proposal that in the square of Croatian defenders, the market of Marshal Tito, so the person suspected of responsibility, for the terrible slaughter of Croatian prisoners and also for civilians of women and children immediately after World War II. So, in today's society, the position of Croatian defenders is... they are exposed to a number of pressures, they are belittled, and this is also an opportunity for Croatia to show that they care about Croatian defenders. But it will also be important for the Croatian public to send a message that the Croatian defender will be treated equally and that he will not be treated worse in front of the Croatian judiciary than members of the enemy troops to whom the General Forgiveness Act is applied and in breach of the text of the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75243	It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75244	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. Here I will begin my debate with the information that 74 Croatian defenders and Croatian wartime invalid in the Zadar County died in 2010. One part of them unfortunately passed torture and re-proved their status and many who died before 2010 certainly did not assist them in the process of proving the status of defence attorney or Croatian wartime invalid. And I'll remind you, and we've already heard here today that only by the decision of the Administrative Court of 4 thousand 280 cases has restored the status of the one who took them away. Croatian defenders have done their job for their country perfectly. The state they created needs to ensure a man's life, more than that I talk to a lot of Croatian defenders and hang out with none of them even more than that. This morning we heard all sorts of things from representatives of clubs, many ugly things, fears, insults and once again disdaining Croatian defenders. I'm just going to say a little bit more why I support this law and why this law needs to be raised to the status of constitutional law. Here are colleagues and colleagues just because what happened between 2000 and 2003 would happen, so I'll just list some of these reasons. It means that the procedures for repealing and abolishing the status of Croatian military disabled persons in permanent rights would not be initiated. To avoid reducing the basics of personal and family disability so as not to reduce orthopedic supplement, so as not to reduce family and disability pensions, so as not to deny the right to car allocation. But also colleagues and colleagues so that it does not occur to someone to cancel scholarships for children of Croatian defenders who live many families. And so as not to retest the humiliating Croatian defenders who are further traumatized by such things. Here are some of the reasons I'm going to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75245	Thank you. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic is coming up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Croatian defenders have won Croatian freedom and independence. The Croatian defender submitted the sacrifice, which accounts for about 15 thousand deaths and we have about a thousand missing and tens of thousands wounded in the Homeland War. Homeland, Liberation and Defense. When I say liberating, then I mean the aggression committed by Serbia-Montenegro on the Republic of Croatia. Croatian defenders also shared the fate of Croatia's independence at the time of the Homeland War. Croatian defenders are still ready to share the fate of their people today. I welcome this way, all present and those not present here today, because we have a large number of Croatian defenders' associations. The representatives of some are here, and the representatives of some are not here. The dignity of Croatian defenders, the change in the level of legal protection, as someone says here today, and I quote it, is not only measured by changing the level of legal protection and entering the Constitutional Law but also by works. Am I going to be able to enter the Republic of BiH through Slavonski and Bosanski Šamac after it is important to adopt this bill on amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of BiH, without being asked by a police officer at the border, doctor, did you check if you could cross over to BiH? So he doesn't ask me on Ilock when I'm going to Bucky Palanco will I be arrested when I cross the Danube from the other side? Will this Constitutional Law be settled? Will Veljko Mršić, who is lying in a casamat in Serbia today, solve the issue? Will it resolve the question of thousands of defence attorneys who accuse you of imagining Belgrade's military prosecution for suspected acts of war crimes in the Republic of Croatia and are Croatian citizens? Imagine that. Who is responsible for judging Croatian defenders because of suspicion of acts, I say only war crimes committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and Croatian citizens are also being tried in Belgrade? Who is responsible for the possibility of the Belgrade military prosecution not only in Belgrade but also in Banja Luka? Mr. Minister, who is responsible for this, whose agreement is this, who signed it? Constitutional law won't solve it. The constitutional law will not solve the memories of images from the Split airport when HDZ officials then sent Blaskic and others from BiH on their way to The Hague. The constitutional law will not solve the question of the dignity of our generals that we respect and here we show respect for them, and they are condemned to such drastic punishments in The Hague, so to General Gotovina and General Markac. We had a Declaration of Homeland War adopted by the Croatian Parliament. No one's talking about the Homeland War Declaration that was adopted here in this House 10 years ago. I would say as a dead letter on paper, and this was contributed by my colleague Pusic, who said in the Sarajevo list "Days" last May that the Homeland War Declaration should be marginalised. Furthermore, the non-participation of SDP colleagues today in the debate, the main opposition party is indeed symptomatic. It is not clear to me that such a subject does not at least cause curiosity or that it does not want to express its position in this regard. There's not a single speaker today. So what this is, is this the Croatian Parliament of only one party, one party, coalition or this is the Assembly of all those representing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and those who voted for the SDP and those who voted for all the other parties. It's our duty here to talk about this. Whether words spoken by the Vice-President of the Parliament will be forgotten when General Gotovina was spoken and he spoke of locating, identifying, arresting and transferring General Gotovina. And it also says that in the original grounds or preamble, today Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, it is possible to identify exactly this, which is the original basis for then the freeing and defence of the Homeland War, so in that preamble, it is translated into this constitutional law, with a single point, a point that, after the national minorities, Croatian defenders are also put in place. National minorities and Croatian defenders. I would say that this legislative proposal for a new constitutional law is actually washing hands, washing the hands of Pontius Pilate in order to forget the unfortunate April as soon as possible when our generals are ruled that the location, identification, arrest, transfer, be forgotten as soon as possible by the Martyr Purde, in order to forget Veljko Maric as soon as possible, in order to forget the thousands of defenders on the list of Belgrade military prosecutors. It is a repair of the impression of the ruling party and the ruling coalitions on what they have done these eight years, and after the Split Riviera, which they have sworn, swore they will not deliver any Croatian defenders. That's it. Will you take that as a pre-election move, as a pre-election manipulation, gentlemen defense attorneys, you decide for yourself. Let the Croatian people and the people decide for themselves, I will not urge you to do anything, nor will I intend to do it, and you will judge for yourselves. The fact that it was adopted in the Croatian Parliament of the Law of Forgiveness or the Law of Abolization for all those who were soldiers so-called, I must say so-called. SAO landscapes that's one thing. There was never a thought either in this House or in the Government of Croatia to make so-called. General pardon. There was war, one was abolized, the other wasn't. How come no one has ever proposed to the defense associations of the so-called. General forgiveness? Well, she did that in '45. Yugoslavia, General Forgiveness. The Ustashas, the Chetniks, the natives, the Beloradians, they all got general forgiveness. And Croatian defenders are being tried and today they are being investigated by Mrs. Vesna Bosanac and two months ago she was having an informed conversation, right? So how long is it gonna go more like that? If this constitutional law prevents it, it does not prevent it. The dignity of the Homeland War, that's not the way it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75247	Bring the end, your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75248	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, is this law, is this constitutional law an attempt? or call confrontations with those who don't speak today so that after they don't raise their hand to the vote, and it should be a 2/3 majority...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75249	Thank you very much. Finish up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75250	Charged that same other side...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75251	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75252	To oppose dignity in the Homeland War. That's very questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75253	We're moving forward with an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75255	Your Honor, MP, Đurjica Sumrak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with my next debate, I won't argue for long, there's no need. When the initiative came from 42 associations of Croatian defenders, I would like to repeat myself, or quote the words of the Prime Minister of Ms. Kosor, who pointed out that it is necessary to accept the defender's initiative to make the Croatian Defence Act constitutional, that in this way in the year when we mark the 20th anniversary of independence we show true and true loyalty, commitment and respect to Croatian defenders, their sacrifice and contribution to Croatia's freedom. That's what President Kosor stressed. In principle, this whole debate should go in this direction alone and should not sometimes be toxic, political, because nothing is solved because our defenders, when they went to the Liberation War, did not engage in politics at all. Let me just say that the legal obligations of Croatian defenders began to be fulfilled in 2004 when a new Law on Croatian defenders was passed and there was no SDP representative in this Chamber. At that time in 2004, employment projects were launched, and then in 2004, the Croatian Defence Fund was put on its feet in which the government introduced its most valuable shares of INA and HT and which still has large assets today. Once again, I will conclude my debate with the words that we should accept this Law and that defenders should be a constitutional category in order to mark in this way the 20th anniversary of independence, which is very important for us to show true and true devotion, commitment and respect to Croatian defenders and their sacrifice and a contribution to Croatia's freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75257	We have one replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Gjurdzice, are you aware that this government and its minister of education allowed a formulation in which 8th grade primary school textbooks in the "Profil" issue say that the Homeland War, due to the dismissal of Serbs from work and the appearance of radical Chetnik groups in Serbia, has occurred.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75259	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions. However, I just want to say two sentences. And I'm the defender myself, and I was with these people, and they didn't deserve to be discussed in this way about a law that just needs to be ensured that their rights are more difficult to claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75260	We are going to the Proposal for a Decision to determine the draft Constitutional Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the adoption of the proposed act requires a majority of all representatives, therefore at least 77. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to lay down a draft constitutional law on the amendment and addition of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Please include and vote on a proposal for a decision to determine the draft Constitutional Law on Amendment and Completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So at least 77. The result? This proposal for the establishment of the draft constitution was adopted by a majority of 77 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 19 against. In the text proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75261	And now we move on to - Final draft law supplementing the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 825. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Paul Matičić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia with the final proposal for the law comes from the European Parliament Declaration on 23 August on the European Day of Remembrance of Victims of Stalinism and Naziism of August 2008 which was established on 23 August on the European Day of Remembrance of Victims of Totalitarian and Authoritarian Systems. And in particular points 15. The European Parliament Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism of 2 April 2009 which calls on parliaments and governments of all candidate countries for the European Union as well as governments and parliaments of all Member States of the Council of Europe, and so on the Republic of Croatia to declare on 23 August the European Day of Remembrance of Victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes and the commemoration of this day with dignity and impartiality. The proposal for this law proposes to declare 23 August and in the Republic of Croatia on the European Day of Remembrance of victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, and to establish itself as a memorial marked with dignity and impartiality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75263	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. And the War Veterans Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. There's no one else. Or, or please, nice. No, I don't. He can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75264	Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, Secretary of State. This Law literally reads: "Article 1. The holiday law, memorials, pardon holidays, I ran up and off days in the Republic of Croatia, "The People's Journal" etc. In Article 2 first paragraph, the word "states" is deleted and the word "i" is inserted, and at the end of the sentence the point is deleted and the words " 23 August" are added. So it's this European day to remember the victims of all totalitarian and autocratic regimes. Victims are victims. That's clear. And any totalitarianism, any regime. It's clear that when I talk about victims, I always put an emphasis on innocent victims. The victims are even, not even, but those from Split who are stoned as St. Duju 1500 years ago, such as the victims and those from Jasenovac, Stara Gradiška, Pag, Drižarna, Dahao, Mathausen, etc. The victims are also many who have passed the naked island, the victims are many who have crossed the cross roads. Deprive people without court their lives is always a crime. To throw anyone in the pits is always a clear crime. Close living people, wounded people, half-live people so I can express myself in various serious caves in Slovenia and pour them in with paint or lime is always a clear crime. One word as I have said here many times is not a tomb and every innocent victim should be rehabilitated, be mourned and be understoodly Christianly buried. Any violence should be fair and condemned. Every innocent victim should also be rehabilitated. How we stand when it comes to holidays or holidays or memorials. When it comes to this kind of matter that we tie to 2. World war or war. We celebrate 22. 6th and more days of anti-fascist struggle, the uprising of the people of Croatia in Sisak, we celebrate September 25th when historical Paz decisions were made in Pazin, we celebrate this 15th. 5. It is mentioned on Bleiburg exactly as it is said and from now on we will probably celebrate the basis of this Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia and this date of 23 August, under the name of the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. Clear about this 15. 5. The emphasis is always on the communist crime. It is interesting, on the other hand, that Tudjman, the late president of the Republic of Croatia, the first president never visited Bleiburg where no one was killed, but had capitulated the NDH there. To be honest, I don't understand why, why, well, you're gonna say that she never recapitulated herself, is. I don't know why he's memorializing himself in front of that Bleiburg monument that says in honor and glory of the murdered Croatian army. This army was neither honorable nor famous, nor was it Croatia. He said nicely to the Pope that it was... a servant, as he says the army loyal to Hitler. What am I saying? Why don't you come and think it's humanly necessary, Christian, why don't you come to the caves in Croatia in front of those caves in Slovenia, absolutely yes. But Bleiburg is a symbol in my court, which is first of all excelling in NDH, and I don't think a civilized country has anything to send its delegations. Finally, I myself had to build a few features where after the war there was a tragedy over innocent people. For example, in Završje, about 47th, 48th, 6,7th Zagreb professors were killed in the escape from zone B. in zone A or rather from ex-Yugoslavia in the then Anglo-Saxon administration. It is true that the 45th continued to deprive life on the crossroads, what about DeGaul's France did... it is clear that the crime was both. It's a crime that was happening in the ex-Yugoslavia area as well as what was happening in one France. For France, no one will likely say that it was a totalitarian dictatorship, for Yugoslavia probably will, although it was agreed by someone yes or no, this Yugoslav, this communism of whatever was not the same as Stalin's, it was not the same as that Soviet one, although I do know that the victims were quite whatever whether they were killed by DeGaul's politics, Tito's politics, Stalin's politics or Churchill's or some other policy. I don't have any sentimental feelings for any executioner, I don't. Not according to those up to 45, not to those after 45, nor to those who committed a crime in 91 or 95, no matter what kind of crime they were. Okay, we have here on August 23rd that day is probably not a problem, no costs, so it's not a holiday, it's a mention of a day, so it's going to work, the economy won't have any specific expenditure, the state will also not have, but you know what the problem in this country is that there's probably no one here or among us here who have raised hands or challenged these laws that would be able to list at this moment all holidays, mentioned, unwork days in the Republic of Croatia. The church holidays of course we know, they're part of our tradition, our mentality, the mental set however you like, but those worldly because of the unnecessary changes that happened, I don't know if it was in 2002 or 2003, I don't think anyone outside of Mr. Schcrabal, or the then-proposer recognizes it. This holiday will clearly be used more to attack that regime after 54th than the regime that was in place up to 45. When I talk about this regime after 45, clearly it was a one-of-a-kind regime, it was a regime that was not religiously prone to confessions, regardless of who was involved in the ex-Yugoslavia area, the fact is and it should be absolutely condemned and the responsible should be called that after the war it was also liquidated to tens of thousands let me call them political opponents, some were not even political opponents, they were absolutely innocent people, but they were not on behalf of who and why they were liquidated. On the other hand, what was positive after the war may have been that the regime was socially sensitive, which has never developed Croatia as it developed since the '60s to the '80s. For years, economic meaning was absolutely superior to the current system and what's positive was that it was on the side of the anti-fascist coalition, so it's a miracle that today there are those who don't know how to put Ustasha hats on their heads or who celebrate such an ideology. Tito needs to be known, and God forbid, Mr. Representative. And confess. And confess. Perhaps Mr. Hebrang has no reason to, but all of you sitting outside of him in this assembly certainly do. Because without him, without... Croatia would not be as it is today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So for the end, I will be for this law, although I am sure those who are prone to these anti-fascist values probably this holiday on August 23rd as it is called the European Day of Remembrance over the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes will not celebrate, and those who are prone to one defeated ideology, who are visiting Bleiburg and possibly will. I'm afraid that this holiday will be shared in the future, but since it falls in the summer, because it's a rough day, which I know can then be voted on, even though few will be the beneficiary of this holiday, but regardless, yes, I will vote for that law, that law is not controversial, but again I say probably those who are prone to these anti-fascist values will not mark that holiday, and those others who are not more prone to any other defeated ideology probably will. Perhaps, in 10 years, there is a generation that simply through one reconciliation policy will begin to accept this date. Until then, I'm afraid it won't happen. But let's let it all go now, clearly one political game, as such should be understood by this holiday law, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, so I'm afraid there will be more damage than benefits from this date, but no matter what, it can be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75265	Thank you. Corrections. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's not true, Mr. Caine, that no one was killed on Bleiburg. This theory of yours, which was spoken by the one who said that Serbs would not carry on the Spanish Croatian country, which sang Jura and Bobana with our immigrants in Australia. ... That's right, you said it right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that theory of yours in common isn't true. Namely, two classes, it's 60 children from 15 to 18 years of Dombrani flag school from Ilica 242 have been shot in Bleiburg along with their 15 professors, civilians, so it's clear to you and it's historical data so read a little, learn a bit, not grumble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75267	Mr. Representative Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75268	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed colleague Cain, speaks in the same way every time about the Croatian Army who surrendered to Bleiburg in a way that was a criminal army, and in fact it was about people whose only sin was that they were different, and that at the beginning of the war in some parts of Croatia were exposed to mass liquidations, including genocide on a national basis, who carried out joint forces of partisan and Chetniks together. So these people deserve a certain level of dignity because they weren't guilty of anything else except how often people say they were different today, they were different nationalities. It was their only sin, and that's the only reason they ended up in Bleiburg, so they could be talked about as criminals today. That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75269	Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, I'll try to correct one of my colleagues' incorrect allegations, even though I know I won't convince him of anything, he's incorrigible in some of his positions, when he said he couldn't even the former Tito Yugoslavia and the former Soviet system. My colleague Cain, they can be, the truth is that they can be even, because both systems were totalitarian, with the rule of the communists, and the communist system was totalitarian, both had a cult of persons, both of these systems were completely identical in terms of attitudes towards non-emergents, camps in Kamchatka or Siberia were nothing different than the Golog Island. Both were killed in one place and elsewhere by innocent people, who didn't mean as they were supposed to, or as their great dad expected from them with his cult that he had been growing from day to day and imposing it on everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75271	Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is incorrect that Agent Cain said there is nothing to pay tribute to the victims in Bleiburg, and there is nothing there to be a Croatian delegation. There is a great deal, Mr. Cain, under the auspices of this Croatian Parliament, to honor the victims. It's not historically proven, but we're talking about 90 thousand killed civilians and military members, but we don't need to talk about who and whose army it was. The fact is that people were killed without a court and trial, contrary to all the international rules of war and all the conventions, and the fact that the former president of the state relativates that crime, so he says that he's not exactly a criminal because perhaps among all those killed, those tens of thousands of were killed and someone in his court was guilty, because he's an alpha and an omega, and he doesn't need a trial, because he knows someone's guilty here, and I really don't know how long we'll be harassed with this assembly pay phone by the excelling communist Partisan and Tito's crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75273	Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75274	I'll be back, said Schwarzenegger at the Terminator. I hope I'm right, because I heard I was, don't take it away from me for a while, but I heard I was kicked out of the session, but here. Mr. Caine, I want to correct one incorrect claim, but first of all, by the experience of my family, one and the other grandfathers were on the Ustasha side. One survived, the other didn't, ended up in Argentina. And indeed these are the victims of the Croatian people... No, no, let the SDP go now, but someone went to Argentina, it was Ante Pavelic along with gold from Croatia. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Someone may have gone to Austria today, etc. But I want to correct your incorrect quote, which refers to Croatia's knowledge of religious holidays. So 2 years ago, this Parliament brought an amendment to the holiday law when it was adopted, Christmas, the second day of Christmas – St. Stephen and Easter. And Mr. Hebrang convened a five-time session of the Club of Representatives and asked what Vinkovic suggested because Easter in Croatia was not a holiday until then. It was Easter Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75275	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75276	Mr. President, let's leave the Ustashas and the Partisans now. I think Croatia wants to know what we'll be living tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75277	And Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75278	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is an incorrect assumption that antifascists will not celebrate August 23rd as the Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian regimes. The anti-fascists will celebrate, but they will not surely be communists because it is a memory of their crimes, the communists certainly do not. And what you think anti-fascists are your communists.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75279	HDZ representative club, Mr Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75280	Here's my thanks, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Representatives and Mr. Representatives. I'm having a little trouble with my throat, but I think I'll be able to say what I've prepared. Indeed this, an argument has opened in which to say that the past is something that has gone on forever, but the traces of that past need to be passed on to new generations, but not hate, not what draws back. So even this debate somehow fits that the evil that happened in the past modern world with its conscience exposes it, shows it, but cans it in the past and has no purpose to pass it on to new generations. I am therefore sorry that some are constantly renewing it in the present which is not necessary, especially today when we have completed the formal negotiation and harmonisation of our legislation with the EU and that we have taken a step towards that large community of half a billion people who have understood it and passed that awareness. And that's why it would be good for us to pass on that consciousness and conscience in this House, and yet we must say, colleague Cain, that communist crimes are not anti-fascism. We also know very well from Istria that we have a duty to explain certain circumstances, but to pass on what is worth, what can be good for everyone about what today can be a quality of life. This truth should be accepted in such a way that this proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia and with the final draft of the law, i.e. the Club of the Representatives of the HDZ will vote for August 23rd as a European Day of Remembrance on the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. The European Day of Remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian systems has been established by the Declaration of the European Parliament since 23 August 2008 and the declaration of the 23 August European Day of Remembrance of the victims of Stalinism and Nazism, confirmed at point 15. The European Parliament Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism of 2 April 2009 which calls for the European Day of Remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes and the commemoration of this day with dignity and impartiality. On August 23, 1939, a German-Soviet pact on non-aggression was signed, known as the Molotov-Ribbentro Agreement, which included Stalin's SSR and Hitler's 3rd. Reich reached a public agreement on non-aggression and a secret agreement on the division of interest areas in Eastern Europe. In the free world, demonstrations were organized on that day, so-called "The Day of the Black Tape," with the goal of getting to know the world about the cover-up of crime. The European Parliament resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism also emphasises that Europe will not be united unless it is able to form a joint review of history by recognising Nazism, Stalinism and fascist and communist regimes as a common heritage and a fair and fundamental debate on their crimes in the past century, expressing respect for all victims of totalitarian and non-democratic regimes in Europe and honoring those who have fought against tyranny and oppression, stresses the importance of living to keep memories from the past because there cannot be reconciliation without truth and memory. I believe that it is appropriate to preserve historical memory, extensive revision of European history and that European broad recognition of all historical aspects of modern Europe will strengthen European integration. I am deeply convinced that this is fully true for us in Croatia. The European Parliament in the resolution voices confidence that the ultimate objective of detecting and assessing the crimes committed by the communist totalitarian reconciliation regimes that can be achieved by accepting responsibility is to beg for forgiveness and nurture moral renewal. In the final part of the resolution, other than the other parliaments and the Government of all candidate countries for the EU as well as the Governments and Parliaments of all the Member States of the Council of Europe shall be called on in time and in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, to the adoption and implementation of that resolution. I would like to remind you that during the session of 30 June 2006, the Croatian Parliament also adopted a Declaration on the condemnation of crimes committed during the totalitarian communist movement in Croatia in 1945 to '90. The year in which it noted that totalitarian communist regimes that ruled in Central and Eastern Europe in the last century, which were still in power in several countries of the world, were without exception marked by mass human rights violations. The fall in totalitarianism of the communist order, the regime in Central and Eastern Europe was not in all cases, nor in the case of the Republic of Croatia accompanied by national or international investigations of the crimes committed by these regimes. As a result, it is very low awareness of the public of the former communist countries and of the Croatian public about the crimes committed by totalitarian communist regimes. The 2006 declaration also states that the Croatian Parliament is convinced that knowledge and awareness of people in historical events are one of the preconditions for avoiding similar crimes in the future and that moral assessment and condemnation of crimes committed play an important role in the education of young generations. The Croatian Parliament joined the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in a strong condemnation of mass human rights violations by totalitarian communist regimes and at the same time expressed condolences for the understanding and recognition of the victims of these crimes in the Republic of Croatia, Europe and the world. I don't want to owe and remind myself of our complex past that has been burdened with various misdeeds that don't serve honor, but the generations that live today are busy with other concerns, but also with the consciousness that needs to be constantly built and on which should be summed up by what is approaching us, and by reducing what is moving us away. As we can see in some discussions, it doesn't lead anywhere. And finally, I would just like to say once again that the HDZ Representatives' Club will vote that August 23rd will be the European Day of Remembrance of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75281	Thank you. Corrections. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75282	Absolutely, a communist crime is not anti-fascism, it is true, and even a crime in the Homeland War is not a Homeland War. A crime is a crime and a crime should be convicted, a executioner should be tried. Here's Setic knows very well. My wife's family was all hurt by this benevolent, post-war rematch, poor, no matter what. While half of them were in the partisans, and these others didn't interfere, it doesn't matter. But when I'm talking about crime, crime should be convicted, and when someone else on the right is talking, then...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75283	And what is the correction to the inaccuracies of Agent Nevia Šetić?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75284	One claim here antifascism is not communism, but I have an impression...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75285	You can't do this anymore. Thank you very much. You can't do it without order. You can't. ... I sang for each other but I sang about you another song. I'm just not going to say it now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] She's very interesting. I sang about you. You're a very good song. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75286	Here I am correcting I would say the incorrect assumption about this, Mr Nevio said that the awareness of communist crimes has not been developed among Croatian citizens. I claim otherwise, I think most Croatian families have gone through this development of consciousness. Here's what I'm going to do with my example. I remember the beginning of the elementary school of the film Antun Vrdoljak "In the mountain grows green pine" and I remember my family house, those thick Slavonic feathers and pictures on the wall next to the Mother of God where some three men stand in some uniforms. When I asked who they were, my mother said they were postmen. In the end, after that movie, it turned out to be Ustasha. However, in order for someone not to think I was defending the Ustasha regime and Jasenovac was a serious crime, but also Bleiburg. And I think that finally in this House we should condemn the crimes of the Ustasha regime as well as the crimes of the communist regime. I should understand that this new modern Croatian state was created on the basis of this anti-fascist struggle, especially on the basis of the Homeland War. Because if it wasn't for the Homeland War, Croatia wouldn't be. And to turn to the future, Mr. President, I will support this law because we are interested in how we will live today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75287	This is particularly important through the correction of the incorrect quote for correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75288	Yeah, it's especially important for those who are watching or not watching. .... /The speaker off./... with a salary, with a pension, with anything. I can't celebrate with an empty table.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75289	Is there anything else? Mr. Representative Mljenko Doric Club of HNS Representatives, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75290	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am sitting in the Croatian Parliament now for the eighth year and the most intense and the longest debates even on such laws that have a full 12 words of addition lasts the longest and the most intense. And when it comes to innovation, technology, development, science, education, then rarely anyone who speaks one smart word. It's fellow Members and fellow MPs sadly. It's really sad. This is about a very correct initiative by the European Parliament. Why mention Mesic, and I don't know who doesn't get involved in a law like this. We always end up on Ustashas and Partisans, completely unnecessary. So, on 23 August 2008, the European Parliament declared that same day as the European Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Stalinism and Naziism, they later completed their decision and declared it the European Day of Remembrance of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. Is there something going on here? Me and my club really don't find anything controversial. But it seems to us that it's always easier to talk about the past than to think about the future. What we still want to object to is this. On this same topic of colleagues and colleagues, asked from the same European Parliament in 2008, we proposed, on 12 November 2008, the club of the CNS proposed that the Croatian Parliament mark the 75th anniversary of the great famine in Ukraine, with more than 6 million people suffering, honoring them and expressing our condolences to their descendants. This was a request from the same European Parliament on the 75th anniversary. For three years, this proposal has been on the agenda, but we haven't discussed it. Now it's even pointless to discuss it. Now it's the 78th anniversary. My colleagues and colleagues, it's not right. If the opposition proposes the same initiative has a declaration or resolution then it cannot go through, it is not discussed, and when it is proposed by someone else it is something to support. We absolutely support this, but please let us finally live here in the 21st century, I guess we know that our history and wars were neither black nor white and that we are finally objective and that we are beginning to think about the future, not that we are constantly going back to the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75291	Thank you. HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. On one monument I no longer see, and I won't tell you where he was in Croatia, along the Una River he was, it said "dead living eyes are opening". So the dead eyes open, and we who lived alive today really live by, as counterpart Doric said, after 50, 60, almost 70 years of thinking about some things, about our future, about what weighs us the most. It is true that on August 23, 1939, eight days before the outbreak of World War II, the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union of Molotov and Ribentrop and concluded an agreement with Hitler-Stalin which they publicly announced that the Soviet Union and Germany were in the non-attack pact, and they secretly divided the areas of interest and the geographical map of Europe. The first victim of the agreement and the secret part was Poland whose 2/3 belonged to Germany after the attack on Poland, and 1/3 to the Eastern Soviet Union. There was also a crime in the Katin forest that the late President of Poland Kacinski wanted to visit, so he died in that plane or plane crash. The reconciliation he spoke of is necessary and as he said after the truth of the memory, but also after remembering the truth, so we must remember the truth, and not be biased, to propagate one truth, to push, and to put the other under the rug for 60 years during the former state, and not much has been done during our Croatia to clear up, is not enough although there are both indications and works and efforts and attempts to make known and victims of communist crimes. A fellow Cain spoke of the military, the Croatian army being killed because there she was on the fascist side. I am sorry that there are no colleagues Caine here, but he would have asked him since he was in the Homeland War, if he had started his war journey in the Križpolje in Lica, and ended up in Plitvices, so God forbid he was captured and liquidated without a court or anything, and I believe that he is not a war criminal who was in the Croatian Army, so the same Croatian army, would he be the victim of some regime. He would be. The man didn't do anything, he may not have fired the bullet, but hundreds of thousands of them were killed. And because of that when it comes to the Croatian Army in World War II, then you should consider what a writer would say to bake and say, not condemning the Croatian army in what they would say... simply without, as did those who executed. [[You don't understand.]] We all know about and many of us have read the book of Karl Steiner 20,000 days in Siberia... 7,000 pardons, 20 years, almost 20 years, right? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. Lapsus cerebra. So 7000 days in Siberia, so for almost 20 years, and we all know what's been described there and we all know how well to assess whether it's a crime or not. 7,000 days in Siberia. Here in our schedule of assembly sessions from the session to the session is repeated condemnation of the holodome, the hunger of the Stalinist, communist click on the Ukrainians in Ukraine, which is why death is a hunger that caused the deaths in Ukraine millions of people of Ukraine after World War II, and these are the victims, unfortunately cannot come in line, on the agenda of this Parliament's condemnation of the holodomor, and it is repeatedly repeated if you have observed well, constantly repeating itself in the agenda of the Assembly meetings, on the proposal of the CNS, on the proposal of the HNS, as far as I know, condemnation of the holodomor. And these are the victims of the communist regimes. As a result, it is clear that no one has anything against 23rd Kolovoz as days of memories of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian systems that were established by the Declaration of the European Parliament since 2008, and then confirmed in 2009 on 2 April that the day was declared on the Day of Remembrance of victims of totalitarian and authoritarian systems. However, Croatia has its specifics. Croatia has its special features, Croatia has its own history, Croatia has its own battlefields, its own sites and its shrines. Clearly, as a proposal proposed for all of Europe, I think there is no need for anyone to think otherwise than to adopt this bill. But we must not continue to forget what I said we have our own battlefields, that we have our own sites and our shrines, and that we must respect them and continue to be mentioned next to the victims of all the totalitarian and authoritarian systems or regimes, however you wish either the Stalinist, communist or fascist regimes. That's why the HDSSB club will be, so to adopt this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75293	Thank you. One correction to the incorrect alleged Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75294	Well, I think you'll bring him down under the correction of an incorrect assumption. Mr. Boro said there was a sign saying that dead living eyes open, open. And here I am saying that the living can still open their eyes to us, that we have a Velko Marić who is in a Serbian prison, that it is a Croatian defender who is not guilty of anything that committed no war crime, that we have Croatian generals in Zenica, The Hague and that we live to open those eyes. And that we do not worship that European Union and that we do not crawl on our knees in the European Union and sell our Croatian interests. And who sings Jura Bobana doesn't matter that much. It's all folk songs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75295	Thank you very much. Individual debate Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I think we have a proposal that is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia and just before I listened to the representative of Mr Doric, who said if there is really a need to talk about this today. Well, obviously there is. Why? Because there is still a deep division in Croatian society around some fundamental facts that we obviously do not agree on yet, and one of the fundamental facts is that the communist regime was totalitarian and it was also a criminal regime. It is through this Declaration of the European Parliament and the Resolution of the European Parliament that Croatia in some way accepts to mark August 23rd a significant date in world history as the day of memory of all victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes above all those who have sown large seeds of evil in Europe and who have caused many crimes. And exactly the agreement signed by two representatives would say the most totalitarian regimes and the most criminal regimes, which are communism on the one hand, Stalin's representative on the other and on the other hand the Nazi representative. So, enough of them are talking about what kind of message Europe is sending today and what value system is present in Europe today. Unfortunately, the same system of values is not yet present in Croatia because of the fact that communism has ceased its independence in Croatia in the 1990s. But apparently he still lives in many heads in the Republic of Croatia. So we can hear all kinds of grades from our colleagues here in the Assembly about what was the crime of one species and what was the crime of another species. It's clear that every crime deserves a conviction. If we are in modern Croatia today ready to face all the facts associated with the Homeland War, with the Croatian struggle for independence, if we were willing to process everything where there were doubts that some crime was committed to outside of that defence that is understood when someone commits aggression to the state. So, if it is beyond that, beyond these frameworks and if there were crimes when Croatia was willing to process those who are fighting for its freedom if they have exceeded certain boundaries of war law or anything else, then why today are we not ready to say which and what crimes this totalitarian communist regime has been doing. Why are we not ready today to accept the fact that hundreds of thousands were killed without justice, without justice, without any responsibility at all? People who were innocent were killed. I very often mention an example... which happened the truth still at wartime but was carried out by the communist forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not anti-fascist because, among other things, anti-fascists were killed on the island, the people whom the Italian occupation forces so the Italian fascists captured them as anti-fascists and imprisoned them in one of the camps specifically on Prevlaca. And when Italy fell, those people were freed and eventually ended up in Daxie where they were killed by the communist system. So they were anti-fascists because they were fighting Fascism, and eventually they were killed by communists. And we often mention that one of the victims on the island of Daxi except that there were intellectuals there was one priest, the author of an anthem we all like to sing, the author of the song "The Paradise Queen of the Croats". Father Pater Perica who wrote that beautiful Croatian anthem was killed without having any on him, that he had any blame for anything that happened at the time. So he also wrote another song, "To heaven be plowed." Those who go to church know that. But what cannot happen in Europe is clearly happening in Croatia. In Croatia, it is still possible that some of the markets bear the name of whoever was at the head of the crime, which is Josip Broz Tito. This resolution condemns Stalin as well as Tito, as all other dictators who were pillars of these totalitarian, non-democratic, authoritarian, criminal regimes. We can tell from one side if we were to go with our colleague Cain's logic, then you could say so Stalin was an anti-fascist. Wasn't he Stalin's anti-fascist? He also fought Fascism after their 1939 deal failed and Hitler attacked him and he fought the fascists. But he created a highly totalitarian, non-democratic criminal system that simply dealt with millions of people. Here is what we mentioned earlier in Ukraine, not to mention all the other victims of the Soviet Union and in all the other countries that were under the rule of the communists. So this date is extremely important for Croatia for the sake of a system of values, we really want the system of values that we are talking about and these are democratic values of respecting diversity, respect for human rights, fundamental human rights, everyone, everyone in all democratic countries, to simply relive in this part of the memory of the victims of those totalitarian regimes that are not marked. One of the European Parliament's and the Council of Europe's intensities was to precisely mark all the sites, mark the places of suffering, all the places of suffering to be marked in a dignified way and to give their piety to the victims who have innocently suffered there. In Croatia, some 700 and some different caves in which it was mass-killed were mass-killed Croatian citizens. The vast majority of these caves are not marked at all. Big majority. And you don't even know the names of those who are in those pits. And what's worse, no one was responsible for those pits, and that's the worst fact. Because when we talk about the fact that the Ustasha regime has collaborated with fascist Germany, then we need to highlight the fact that most of these crimes have been discovered, that the names of the victims are known, and that they know where these victims ended up, and that one part, I'm not saying that they're all, but one part has been answered in court. So it is certain that all these crimes should absolutely be condemned, maximum, and it is certain that those who committed these crimes should be condemned. Of course, by the basis of the judicial process and in the evidence that should have been substantiated, etc. But isn't it possible that today we can't accept that the system we lived in was really criminal? Is it forgotten that by the end of the 1980s, Croatian citizens who were in immigration were killed? I will only mention Đurekovic, or Busic or so on, etc., numerous Croatians who are... with the desire to have one day their own independent state, which no other crime could be found in their actions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a system that's dealt with its inexplicables, simply liquidating the unsanitary. And today there are still those in Croatia who are not ready to admit that fact or who want to justify the way these crimes were committed. Apparently, among these numerous people who had been killed after walking from Bleiburg, there were reportedly those who were guilty of something. If the guilty were supposed to end up in prison, they were supposed to end up in court, they needed to be proved guilty, and they needed to be convicted. Unfortunately, I am still saying that Croatian society is still deeply divided, and there is no real reconciliation without truth about all these events, and that is what the European Parliament resolution and the European Parliament declaration warns of. There's no real reconciliation unless all the facts about these crimes are put on the table and those crimes are convicted. Indeed, I point out once again that it is extremely important for the Croatian future this day to remember the victims of totalitarian regimes, I am sure that anti-fascists will mark this day, because it is a day of memory and of the victims of fascism, and of communism, but probably not the communists, what fellow Cain said, I am correcting it once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75297	Thank you. Replications. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75298	Thank you. Well, fellow Matusic, you've talked about different approaches here, and today some colleagues show that you really need to guard those who turn the unread pages of history, because they spread one rule for one another, other rules for another, and we all know that a fair and true view of history should still be represented. That's what hasn't been done in the last 70 years, and I think that once again we should point out that generations behind us wouldn't think this way again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75299	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75300	I agree, my colleague, with you completely. The fact is that in this and such Soviet alliance, in Russia today, they recognize Stalin’s crimes. They admit that Stalin was a criminal, confessing his crimes, including confessing that they killed the Poles in... Forests, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Among other things. And today we are obviously not ready to admit yet one part of the Croatian public is not ready to admit that Tito was a criminal, and the fact that some markets and some streets still bear his name, the name of the criminals, means that people are simply not ready to admit that dark side of that person who was a dictator in the totalitarian communist regime. No one argues that there were other sides, but that dark side had to come across the condemnation of all, a unanimous condemnation of all, and that is what we unfortunately still have to talk about today in Croatian society, and we must warn, and we must warn that it is simply unacceptable that the name of the criminal solves the name of one street or one square, specifically in the capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75301	Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matušić, you have repeated twice there is still a deep division in Croatian society regarding these historical topics. I agree with you, however, we must now wonder whether we colleagues and colleagues contribute to this division of Croatian society. The answer is definitely yes. Definitely. Although even what we are doing today, declaring something mentioned does not mean anything, if tomorrow it will not be mentioned in school textbooks, if we will not teach students to be objective and correct in reading history, to condemn all crimes and those in Jasenovac, both on the crossroad and in Vukovar. We colleagues and colleagues definitely contribute to that division.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75303	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75304	Thank you. My colleague, I think that this statement of yours now, and mine do not contribute to the division, does not really contribute to the awareness of the Croatian public of the part that does not wish and cannot be reconciled with the facts that occurred at the time of the totalitarian communist regime. That's all it's about. You do not have a chance to answer, but I would like to ask you if you consider it correct that one of the squares in Zagreb bears the name Josip Broz Tito, after all the crimes that were committed by his leadership in the totalitarian state. .../The Intruder doesn't understand. It's not right. I'm glad you have that attitude because it matters. To condemn truly, truly condemn all crimes, from Jasenovac to Bleiburg to Vukovar. So that's what it takes to really convict, and preferably find the guilty. It's still not too late to know the truth from those involved in these crimes. It's just that unfortunately communist silence is still a very, very big obstacle to the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75305	Madam Representative Tanja Vrbat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75306	Thank you very much. Dear Matušić, here I have raised your line so that you have the opportunity to answer me, i.e. to have the opportunity to correct yourself. In fact, I think you've distracted your mind that a very broad consensus was passed several months ago in this House where the debate was very correct and very good where we all agreed that these crimes committed after the end of World War II should be condemned and that all victims should have their own strategy marked and this was here with a broad consensus. I was hoping that that's when we ended up with this kind of debate and then we showed everyone here, all the political options to share the view of civilization's achievements, I guess, that everyone, every victim, must have their own dignitary grave.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75307	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75308	Well, I didn't see in practice that it really came to life from everyone in this House. In particular, you have the opportunity to ask that in some Istrian cities the streets of Marshall Tito be abolished. So I'm not saying, I'm saying once again, we're talking about the dark sides of certain historical figures. And Stalin was an anti-fascist, and he finally won along with the allies defeating fascist Germany. But on the other hand, he was doing the same evil, killing millions, tens of millions of people. And that part of course should be condemned. We're not gonna talk, we're this part of the history you're talking about, we certainly knew it during the communist system, which is all good, positive, made in an anti-fascist fight that was not only fought by communists, but also by other Croatian citizens who were not communists. But crimes remain crimes, and you have the opportunity to correct everything that is related to these crimes, and what is still trying to glorify or try to justify these crimes today. That's what this is about. The justice of the guy who mentioned his colleague Grubisic that some former officials are talking about how among those people who ended up in the pit, and tens of thousands, as among them were those who were responsible for the crimes. So those who killed them could simply prosecute them, bring them to court. That's what this is about. And we really want him to live up to this point in practice because he is extremely important to the Croatian conscience.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75309	Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75310	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on holidays, memorials and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia, clearly with the final draft of the law. As we have already heard from this supplement, we are implementing the European Parliament Resolution on the European Consciousness and Totalitarianism of April 2009, which also recommends that the EU candidate countries declare this 23rd August to be victims of fascism, Nazism, communism, so on the victims of all totalitarian systems. What I am recommending and proposing is that it is marked with dignity and impartiality, and in fact, the Republic of Croatia would show respect for all victims and, as is the commitment to promoting European values. Speaking of this date, here are the speakers before me who have already shown some basic foundations, which is that on August 23rd was declared the European Day of Remembrance of the victims of Nazism and Stalinism because of '39. For years, two totalitarian systems have been deficient in some ways, but with their '39 agreement. The years have actually shown that it's a complete identification of these two systems, one Nazi, the other communist. To identify this, they have thus shown that they have concluded an agreement called the Non-Aggression Pact and the division of areas of interest. So they have the same goals and there was no difference. And if there was no difference between them, it was clear that the very beginning, which is that, and also before, there were equally camps in Germany and the Soviet Union. Also numerous victims were the result of this, so that we do not say that the beginning of their agreement was the death of Poles, Lithuanians, Latvians, Estonians, Moldovans, etc., etc. That clearly was the basis for what we are talking about today. However, that date is still in the time of so-called. The "cold war" in the Western countries was therefore mentioned in a certain way by organising different demonstrations called the Day of the Black Tape, which warned the rest of the world that many of the facts of totalitarian regimes or systems were unknown. So, that's how they hide themselves. Among them were the state in which we also lived because the many crimes of that totalitarian system were covered up. What is important is that this European Parliament resolution points out that Europe will not be united unless it can form a common history review. Recognising Nazism, Stalinism, fascism, and communist regimes as a common legacy, and until they are fully brought forth and fair and thorough debates and found the truth about their crimes during the 20th century. This is what my colleague Matušić mentioned earlier, as well as his colleague Doric did, and it is true that, indeed, they should be brought out once with an honest and thorough debate and to establish the truth. Because that's what we're supposed to talk about, that's what really warns us about these fundamental values. It is clear that within that it is necessary to pay tribute to all the victims of these totalitarian and non-democratic regimes in Europe and to be honored, to all those who have fought against the oppression and freedom of man. They even honor those whom Tito's communists, without respecting the fundamental rights of man, have executed on the naked island. But not just here, but elsewhere. Unfortunately, in this House of Commons, I was not present to mention anyone's name about the reopening of the Glog Island, which certainly does not serve anyone's honor, because it does not know what the families whose loved ones there were taken, who suffered without any questions without any trial, or even without any right to say because these same families were excluded from all others in the village or in the city no matter where they lived isolated and had no basic conditions for life, and no one ever asked them anything without saying that those victims that happened there had not been valorized to this day. In any case, the resolution stresses that it is important to keep memories alive, because it is essentially a means of reconciliation, and that reconciliation is not possible without the truth. Certainly, the truth can only be established in a way that is capable of revising European history. So we need to review all the wrongly raised generations of young people, and so probably my generation, as well as the ones that came behind. The resolution mentions both totalitarianisms. However, the resolution puts a greater emphasis on communism for reasons because the victims of communism and the criminal character of communism were not sufficiently talked about. It wasn't really supposed to be talked about, at least in the former state we lived in, until her breakdown in 1989. The resolution therefore expresses its belief that the ultimate objective of detecting and assessing communist crimes is reconciliation, and that can be achieved in any case only by accepting responsibility and seeking forgiveness. And I'm just saying, it's my mother who's still alive to welcome her. But I don't think he will because those who should do it regardless of what is in the High House have raised their hand on it, obviously in practice can hardly raise their hand or voice for something. It should be said that in June 2006, the Croatian Parliament adopted a declaration of condemnation of crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia from 1945 to 1990 and warned that the regime's fall was not only in Croatia but also in other countries that were part of the former state, it is thought of them that it was not followed by investigations into its crimes. And it is precisely because an investigation has not been conducted that needs to be confirmed and said that the consequence is a very low awareness recently spoken of by counterpart Matušić, the whole public about these communist crimes. However, knowledge and awareness of these crimes are certainly a prerequisite for avoiding them in the future and for condemning these same crimes to be the basis for tomorrow in the one true, true and true rearing of young people, or generations on which to rest the future of our Beautiful One.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75311	Thank you. Replica Mr. Agent Anton Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75312	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. Here is an esteemed colleague, like many colleagues, who had previously well elaborated and compared both Nazism and communism and contracts signed by Stalin and Hitler, where Poland was sacrificed, and we might add that Poland and remained within those borders where it was slightly moved west, reduced by about 800,000 square miles. So, we agreed here that communism, fascism that it was totalitarian regimes, that Europe had mentioned it a long time ago, we could have listed other socialist countries that also had leaders who worked alike, but these two are mentioned most often and most often. However, that awareness of which was spoken by fellow Matušić and what you have mentioned now, she tries in various ways to impose herself here and in the Assembly as some period of life and work during another Tito, when there was some great justice, so colleague Cain often mentions it. But then a man wonders, and what a bit moved me to talk about it at all, even though we know some rules about how history is written on the basis of some documents, that some period should go by, so the English don't open their documents at all, but when Bilandzic asked me to write another Tito's biography, each time the other denied what was before. So, then it's mentioned here how well it's lived, so the man wonders himself who's alive in that regime, where that righteousness was. Let's go, for example. education, it has often been mentioned by the media that it was free of charge then. I would remind you if it hadn't been that way, that again there were those privileged who were getting scholarships. This allowed them to have a home behind it, and others had to pay as well as apartments several times as much and everything else. So I think it's about the abuse of consciousness that was better, and I'm not talking about the economy, so there's no time, but it could be compared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75313	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75314	Here's my colleague Mance, you've well complemented my colleague Matusic and I with regard to therefore the totalitarian system in which we have lived, which we have lived, and let's say what would be best to say outlived and thank God that he is never again in the form in which he was. And it refers to the fact that today, when we have a declaration that in June 2006, the Croatian Parliament on the condemnation of these crimes precisely so that this awareness and knowledge and truth, and also justice and justice, which some speak of and are called upon, and also justice and justice, which was the basis of some in the election campaign, will be able to revive and be able to liven up in the Croatian people and in Croatia as a state and turn a step forward when they, i.e. the heirs of those who did so acknowledge all that was happening and demand forgiveness from the victims or families of those who were killed by the same regime. Then it will be the real and true reconciliation that we all want. We all want the same thing, but obviously it hasn't happened yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75315	You had Mr. Vinkovic's correction to Mr. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75316	Well, here's Honorable colleague Matkovic, you said a low awareness of communist crimes is still prevailing. I assure you the contrary, that the Croatian people have very much been aware of these crimes, but also of the crimes of the Ustasha regime, but the thing is that so far as Croatia's state has done nothing to punish the criminals and punish them. Many of them went to justice to God to say so, but most of them still, one large number of them is, no, this is a correction, most of them are alive, and this Parliament has also condemned these communist crimes, and I think first of all, every normal man and every normal Croatian family knows what happened after World War II, which was happening on the naked island, and only those who don't understand what was going on can look for the opening of the Google Island and the repetition of certain things. So, we need to look as Parliament and parliamentary representatives of the attorney and police to finally investigate these crimes and bring the culprits to justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75317	Mr. Representative Daniel Srb, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Unlike all the other speakers so far, I disagree with this bill because I see actually one prank in it. Unfortunately, in its proposal for a law condemning the crime of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, communism and fascism, as defined by the European Parliament's decisions, Croatia did not have the courage to take the same name as it did on the Day of Remembrance of victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, without being told what totalitarian and authoritarian regimes are doing. And I see in fact a great danger that some other periods in Croatian history are declared authoritarian regimes and that someone based on it is also declared a victim of the authoritarian regime. That is why I will not vote for this bill, but I am warning of the need for it to withdraw as such because I see the danger in it for a period which Croatia's democratic community has led Croatia and towards the late President Tudjman. So once again I will say, totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, communism and fascism are explicitly mentioned in the decisions of the European Parliament, not this name used in this bill. That is why it is necessary to be very careful when it comes to such sensitive names as are being passed through this bill and there is a danger that, over a certain period of time, someone dares under the authoritarian regime to subdue something else, something that is objectively not. The totalitarian regimes in this space were communist and fascist, not any authoritarian. I hope you don't think about it for a while from a thousand years ago or something like that. That is why, because of its accuracy, he reacted to this bill and to this decision by the Government and the Croatian Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, warning of the danger that such a lack of precise definition of the provisions of this law in the future would lead to something that would unnecessarily burden Croatia with. I wouldn't want us to actually get one chance from this term for some who are Croatia's reluctant to actually burden Croatia in the future through this bill of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75319	Thank you. One correction. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75320	Dear fellow Serbs, you said Croatia has no power. I do not know if Croatia has the strength, but here I will only introduce you and especially this left side of the assembly, it is a correction, and well can the replica, come to know this left side of the Assembly that the city of Djakovo had the strength and that by the decision of the headship, in the signature of Mayor Zoran Vinkovic, the decision to take place... It's the current mayor, me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] At the site of the family, Croatian families, German families after World War II after the parish church All holy monuments, the head that sinks the academic painter Antun Babic. It's a 2008 decision. The head that sinks, the monument says "sacrifice of communism" so that when you continue to discuss it, you have it in mind. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75321	We'll take that as a replica, then we'll take the answer to Mr. Agent Daniel Srb's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75322	Thank you very much for the information, Mr. Mayor. I will keep that in mind, but I also remain in the position that Croatia is not yet ready to deal with the crimes of communism that have taken great victims to the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and today's debate has shown that some representatives mention victims throughout Croatia, but not in that territory from which they come because numerous crimes have also been committed, which they do not look back on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75323	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75324	We move on to the final proposal for a law supplementing the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 825 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law supplementing the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. Score. This final bill was adopted by a majority of 88 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 3 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75325	We are going to the next item - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 639. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative, European Integration, Maritime, Transport and Links in Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75326	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here I will be brief since the law has already received mostly support in the first reading. There were several objections. I will only briefly repeat the reasons why the government has referred to the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act. One of the reasons was, therefore, the Constitutional Court’s decision by which the Constitutional Court abolished the provision of Article 199(3) on the cumulative and conditional punishment of alcohol. It also abolished the provisions on the validity of an international driver's license and proposed a duration of three rather than five years to date. The second reason was to refer the law to the parliamentary procedure of compliance with Directive 126/2006. the years of the European Parliament and of the Council. It is proposed to introduce a new category D1 and D1 plus E. Furthermore, in order to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union in part of the technical examination of the vehicle, certain vehicles shall be subject to technical examinations each year, not as until 24 months. And the third group of reasons was that, in the application of the current law, we noticed certain shortcomings, inconsistencies or inconsistencies, so we also proposed to correct these shortcomings that were so far in the law. Compared to the first reading, we adopted certain proposals and remarks made in the debate here in the Parliament. This accepted the proposal of the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications and gave up the amendment of Article 202 because we consider the current provision to be quite fine and that it is the best guarantee of increasing security. We then also accepted a partial proposal from the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Relationships, in which Article 229(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on traffic security behind the word "officer" adds the words: "or the official person of the unit of local self-government who performs the tasks referred to in Article 5(4) of this Act". This shall practically require the supply of data to local self-government units so that the local self-government unit has all the necessary information in the performance of those road traffic safety transactions that are competent to it in Article 5. And it was accepted that MP Luke Denona's proposal that pedestrians moving without vests should not be fined in cash, but punished by warning. I would just say that the current state of transport in Croatia is good, that since its adoption in 2008, this law has produced good results as best seen in the number of fatalities. Namely, the death toll in 2008, meaning the year in which the law was passed, was 664 fatal. In 2009, we had significant reductions of 17% and the death toll was 548, and in 2010, we had another major decrease in the death toll of 22% compared to 2009. 122 people were killed less than in 2009. A total of 426 people died, and for the first five and a half months of this year, so with today this good trend, a positive trend is still present so that we have today compared to the same period last year another 36 people killed in transport less and 19%, respectively. And if we compare that on today 2009, 216 people were killed in traffic, and this year 151 we can certainly be encouraged by this data that trends in road safety on the roads of the Republic of Croatia are good. And I expect that by adopting this law, these trends will continue and that this exchange of road safety after the adoption of the law will raise us to an even higher level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75327	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Ivan Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75328	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act and at the very beginning to say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will accept it. Road safety has undoubtedly become part of the global policy of all countries, especially Western European countries. The Republic of Croatia as a transition country, as well as a country which, according to its historical, political, economic and cultural orientation, belongs to the Western geo-transport area already at the very beginning of its independence and international recognition, learned the importance of road safety and began implementing measures aimed at reducing the number and consequences of traffic accidents. Road safety is very important because it includes almost the entire population, and each injured or killed person in traffic accidents is a great loss not only for her family but also for the wider community. We know that three basic road safety factors are human, vehicle, and road safety. It is certainly the greatest role and responsibility of man, because he participates directly as a participant, indirectly as a designer and road builder, and he who maintains them as a vehicle constructor, and he who repairs them, as he who adopts the Transport Safety Act and takes care of their application and implementation, or he who conducts medical examinations that raises and educates traffic participants. The Law on Road Safety entered into force on 17 June 2008, and its application in the right sense of the word may only be considered at the beginning of 2009 after the adoption of almost all implementing rules necessary for its application. The main indicators of road safety are certainly the total number of traffic accidents, the number of injured persons and, in particular, the number of people killed. Comparing the data on the number of traffic accidents and the number of injured and killed persons in traffic accidents, a significant shift in the positive direction was seen in 2009 with 2008; a positive trend is even more pronounced in 2010, and credits can be attributed to the Road Safety Act. From statistics in 2009 compared to 2008, the total number of traffic accidents was reduced by 5.8%. Reduce the total number of injured persons by 2.6% while the total number of deaths is smaller by 17.5% and 116, respectively. Comparing 2010 statistics with 2009 is a further reduction in the total number of traffic accidents by 11.9%, a reduction in the total number of injured persons by 16.4%, and a reduction in the total number of deaths by 22.3% and 122, respectively. Under the circumstances that preceded traffic accidents, the biggest number of traffic accidents remains due to non-compliance with traffic rules, traffic signals, or human errors. The number of traffic accidents caused by young drivers decreased by 23.2% from 16 to 24 years of age except that the absolute number of traffic accidents and casualties in 2010 decreased significantly and the proportion of this age group in all traffic accidents and casualties. The relevant Road Safety Act lays down detailed conditions for training candidates for drivers and conditions that must be met by persons performing the training of candidates for drivers, with provisions on the required professional preparation in line with the provisions of the Law on academic and professional names and academic degrees. It is also prescribed that professional training of driving instructors, lecturers, professional guides in auto-schools, authorised supervisors and authorised interrogators are also set at the lowest hours of work of driving instructors, as well as lecturers of traffic rules and rules, certainly increase the quality and education of candidates for drivers, and significantly contribute to the safety of traffic over roads in the long term. During the application of the Road Safety Act, the need for certain amendments and additions to the Law has been established, in order to further regulate the problem of road traffic developments and to contribute to further increasing road safety. Changes requiring a higher level of responsibility are proposed in the part of the law which regulates the movement of pedestrians and cyclists, use of a helmet, and reflective vest, which will significantly contribute to increasing the safety level of these traffic groups. The proposed Article 5(5) of Article 49(4) adds to the new paragraph 5, which reads as a fine of 5 to 15 thousand kuna, or to a prison for up to 60 days, will be punishable for a violation of a driver who is on the highway, on a fast road, and the road intended exclusively for the transport of motor vehicles shall be driven by a belt intended for the transport of vehicles from the opposite direction, i.e. in the opposite or prohibited direction. Article 14 provides for amendments to Article 127(2) to add a new Article 3 which reads as the foot-and-mouth disease is due at night and, in the day-to-day, in the event of reduced visibility, to be marked by a certain source of light, or a reflective matter, we positively consider the acceptance of the proposal that pedestrians do not punish themselves for this offence, but that it acts on a preventive warning. In order to comply with Directive 126/206 of the European Community and of the European Parliament and of the Council, it is proposed to introduce a new D1 and D1 plus E category of vehicle, as well as to re-ategorise the four-cycle M categories, and the current M category is renamed to the AM category, and to amend the obligation to carry out technical checks and preventive technical checks for certain vehicle types. In relation to the first-reading bill, the definition of D category has been expanded in such a way as to prescribe that B-category towed vehicles may also be combined with a coupling vehicle whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 750 kilograms, provided that the maximum permissible mass of the coupling vehicle is not greater than the mass of the towed vehicle and the maximum permissible mass of the combination of those vehicles is not greater than 3 and a half thousand kilograms. The proposed Article 29 is amended in Article 221(3), which has passed the B-category test, shall not operate a personal vehicle whose engine power exceeds 75 kilowatts, shall be replaced by the words of a passenger car whose engine power exceeds 80 kilowatts. Article 199 of the applicable Road Safety Act shall also be amended and, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the number of I-I-3084/08 of 7 April 2010 shall be prescribed by the concentration of alcohol that certain categories of drivers may have. Thus, for drivers of professional categories C1, C1 plus E, C, C, C plus E, D1, D1 plus E, D, D plus E, and H categories of young drivers and drivers of vehicle B categories whose vehicle management is a basic interest, taxi drivers, emergency drivers, drivers in companies, and public authorities, etc., at a time when they perform these tasks prescribed that they must not have alcohol in general in the blood, nor in the body of drugs or medicines marked not to be used during driving, or for a certain time before driving. Other drivers are prescribed not to operate a vehicle on the road or start driving a vehicle if they have drugs in their body, or medicines marked not to be used during driving, or for a certain time before driving, or if they have alcohol in their blood above 0.5 grams/kg, or the appropriate amount of milligrams in a litre of exhaled air. Comparing the 2010 statistics with the 2009 statistics, the number of traffic accidents with killed persons caused by young drivers decreased by 47.7% and a reduction in the number of deaths by 42.2% and 49, respectively. This positive shifts I believe are also the result of the achieved standard of improving the quality of training of candidates for motor-school drivers, and of carrying out driving tests, which also highlights the majority of auto-school representatives through polling questionnaires translated into expert consultations with auto-school representatives and a delegation from the European Commission as part of a visit to the Republic of Croatia with the aim of verifying and meeting the conditions for issuing driving licences and minimum standards for use, for carrying out driving tests and training drivers as a prerequisite for closing Chapter 14. - Traffic policy. We consider it positive to give up the original proposal to amend Article 202(2) and (4), thereby maintaining to achieve the standard of working conditions in the professional organisational, material and humane respect and allowing for further trends in traffic safety growth as well as the quality of the candidate training process for drivers. In the belief that positive trends in road safety will continue in the future on the roads of MPs and HDZ deputies support the adoption of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75329	Thank you. The club of HNS-HSU representatives, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75330	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Immediately at the beginning to determine the club HNS-HSU will surely support this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. I think it's a long-awaited change because definitely certain items of this law have been collapsing with constitutional provisions, but also beyond any possible logic in the sense that it can be managed by an overseas ship with 0.5 grams per milligram of blood alcohol concentration, but that it can't, or that it's a conditional act if it's operated by a motor vehicle. Also, that 200-ton crane could be managed by the Labour Act with 0.5 grams per kilogram of blood alcohol concentration, but the personal car could not. So now some of our doubts, or some of our wishes and desires for citizens to set a single threshold, so the threshold of tolerance, and above that threshold, are all punishable, are simply these desires and this law is being resolved and I think that here the peace and will of the promoter and logic of a medical standard that has long said that under 0.5 grams per kilogram or 5 ounces of alcohol in the blood is something that is allowed. Of course, what can always be objected to by every law, and especially by this, although I do not doubt that the change of the Road Traffic Safety Act will be in the future. They will be with every advance of technology, with every new technical and technological solution that will contribute to road safety, and it is certainly one of the laws that will change. You can make an observation because our law has changed over the last six or seven years according to the method of trying and making mistakes. Although this is not a bad method, and it is one of the standard methods of learning, it is not necessary, however, for all citizens and institutions to learn by this method when they have all the experiences of others, our experiences, statistics, etc. What am I saying? What I'm saying is that it's wrong to attribute these effects only to rigid legislation. Not much happened in Croatia, which was in favour of reducing the number of serious accidents on Croatian roads. Hundreds of kilometers of highways are made which are faster and faster, but the highways are much safer. You have no one in the opposite direction except for some who enter the intersection in the wrong direction. However, it is indeed one big one, the traffic situation is one big contribution to road safety. What's equally valuable to praise throughout the system is that the technical inspection stations are doing their job extremely well, very responsible and our cars are being tested and I believe for every little thing they come back and are really looking for maximum vehicle correctness. Which also contributes to road safety. The same thing the police should say is not only did she have increased traffic control but she had more than just so far preventive activity which is good. She also had a lot of school lectures, which is also very good and general trend regarding road safety itself is good and should continue with this trend. What I would always ask questions about, which I like to discuss is the issue of our specialized TV shows that are in the function of motor vehicle advertising, modern solutions ads, but these also contribute to making young drivers a false sense of security that this vehicle is absolutely, that this guy is now driving with all these security devices absolutely safe. Which isn't simply true. No matter what security measures were installed in the car the key person was always and remained the driver and investment in the driver was the biggest contribution to road safety. I think there's still a lot to be done in that part. I'm not saying that such emissions should be banned, no, but they should always be fenced and it should always be pointed out again that they are sophisticated security devices. However, the safety of road traffic depends solely on the adjustment of driving conditions. And it should always, always point out and always remind you that it does not create that sense of false security that technique is almighty. The technique actually serves, serves the people, serves the driver, a citizen to drive better, safer, and better quality. It is also said in Article 20 that the concept of intoxicating drugs is defined differently. Of course, it's drugs, but that story includes now various medications affecting the psychophysical abilities and ability to drive. This is very well said in this law, I just don't know if this law is coordinated with the laws that define the area of medicines and whether after this law we will have an obligation to write on the medicine and, as it says on cigarettes, that they are harmful to health and that all those very dangerous remarks that stand on cigarettes tomorrow, whether it will stand on the medicine boxes or we will have to read it with an increase in the instructions on the individual medicine. I agree that this is one problem which is somehow in the shadow of the problem of alcohol driving, but is not less important and is not less insecure and is not less dangerous driving under the influence of drugs specific but also the effects of medicines that affect the psychophysical abilities or ability to drive. And what I would like to say on behalf of the HNS and HSU club is one thing I don't know if you have received one opinion from the Association of Cities, because I think it's correct where nothing is being criticised but in some way being said that you could do even better and contribute to the safety of road traffic, because what the Association of Cities points out is the speed of movement of motor vehicles in cities is the biggest cause of accidents and they are approximately, this was signed by Mr. Vojko Oberznell, president of the Association of Cities, they suggested the following: "The Association of Cities expresses dissatisfaction with regard to the proposal in question, given that the applicant did not allow units of local self-government to assist police officers in traffic control, vehicles, drivers and other traffic users, particularly in terms of vehicle speed control in the settlement, stational devices, monitoring and detection of the violations in the area of traffic and ps. It is generally known that accidents occur in pedestrian zones with severe pedestrian injuries, and units of local self-government without adequate powers are unable to solve these problems. Understanding the limitations of police resources and the need for police officers to work on more demanding tasks, we believe that it would be opportunised to leave easier jobs in those areas to the local unit traffic directorship in order to pass through adequate training in the MUP system, not including the authorities of police officers to perform these tasks and primarily police officers in the event of the simultaneous conduct of these traffic redistribution and police officers' championships. In particular, we point out that local communities in Slovenia have launched extraordinary preventive activities and have received quality effects in calming the speed of the vehicle in critical parts of the settlement after enabling vehicle speed control in the settlement of stationary measuring devices. The Presidency of the Association of Cities of the Republic of Croatia and the Community of the Municipality of Slovenia have been working closely in recent years and are exchanging experiences and good practices. At the last joint meeting of the Bureau, we discussed exactly the road safety issue, and we believe that local units in Croatia, in cooperation with the MUP and Slovenian colleagues, could carry out equal quality preventive and supervisory activities, which would further improve the safety of all road users." I think personally, but I think, or I have the authority to say that on behalf of the Club of HNS and HSU Representatives that this is an excellent incentive, that if it is not now incorporated into the law as I said earlier there will be a lot of changes to this law because of the other circumstances I mentioned, then I think that this initiative should be particularly appreciated and that this would be another contribution to road safety, but also to the security of traffic in cities which are one particular problem and one particular concentration of risks and risks to traffic. We are aware at the HNS and HSU club that transport risks cannot be fully avoided, but we are sure that they are also well-planned, including all actors who are invited to participate in risk reduction, their inclusion of these risks can be reduced to a reasonable limit and we believe that these changes are also one result of a sound thinking and one step forward in improving the overall state of road safety. So once again, the HNS and HSU club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75331	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She's not losing her right to a word. Mr. Representative Milivoy Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75332	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. Since this law came into force in 2008, there has been a lot of talk about it and its provisions, not taking into account the fact that the proper application of a law takes time after the adoption of all the sublegal acts necessary for its application or at least those which have a significant impact on the parameters to be measured. In this case, it is certainly the total number of traffic accidents, the number of injured persons and, in particular, the number of people killed. The consequences of roadblocking have a significant impact on the overall state of public security. Let us recall the 2009 Home Secretary's report in police affairs, which says that on the Croatian roads in 2009 12.4 people were killed on 100 thousand people, while 15 people died on 100,000 people in 2008. Last time we had a number like this 40 years ago. The number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants is the best indication of road safety. It would be best if there weren't any dead persons and we regret every dead person, but unfortunately that's not real. I am also pleased with the information presented by the Secretary of State today in the introduction that both the trend and the statistics of the five months 2010 are as good as before and I am glad that it will remain this year and that the tourist season will not disrupt that statistics. According to the National Road Traffic Safety Programme for 2006-2010, the goal of 10 is conditionally stated not to cross 10 dead to 100,000 inhabitants. An even better result was achieved in 2010. The best in the last half century. Our neighbouring Slovenia last year had 10.5 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, and in the Republic of Croatia it is 9.7 and this is the long-term result of the good Road Traffic Safety Act, although I am not excluding part of that discussion by Mr Hrelja, that the overall safety status is certainly also dependent on road construction and all other things that have contributed to road safety as well. So, the last change in the existing Road Safety Act and a series of preventive repression measures that our police took during the previous period has reduced the number of traffic accidents, reduced the number of injured persons and the total number of deaths. The repression is not always dear to us, but it has proved that it must still be present to bring results. In addition to harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, this proposal wants to regulate certain issues in the field of road transport even more precisely. From the promoters and in the debate that was before mine, we heard what concrete changes these are. How important these changes and additions are the fact that they refer to provisions that require specific restrictions for young drivers to distinguish themselves with those that are subject to beginners. There are changes proposed in the part of the law that regulates the movement of pedestrians and cyclists who are very important as the most vulnerable and most vulnerable groups of road users, then use a protective helmet and reflective vest. All of this will contribute to an even greater level of their security. We also have compliance with the Violation Act under which negative misdemeanor points are deleted after two years from the power of the infringement decision. What always caused the biggest controversy was the question and how to regulate driving under the influence of alcohol, which is now more precisely defined, which refers naturally to 0.5 grams per kilogram of alcohol in the blood to people who ride on a bicycle, moped and motorcycle. For drivers of professional categories not to list them now, it is known which, young drivers and drivers of B categories whose driving is a basic profession is prescribed that at a time when they work they must not have alcohol in their blood, nor in their system of drugs and certain medicines. More specifically, the territorial jurisdiction of the police administration or police station shall be determined in the vehicle registration process and the issue of test plates to foreigners and it shall be determined that legal and natural persons, craftsmen, may issue test plates until the place of the technical examination of the vehicle. As compared to the first reading, the Proposer accepted several proposals from the debate in the first reading and installed them in this final draft of the law. I believe that these amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act will continue to continue the positive trend that has been discussed, which is why it needs to be voted on. The MAP has worked intensively with full capacity to prepare for the full integration of the security of the European Union system. The result is a harmonised normative system with the acquis and standards of the European Union. I will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75333	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State. Of course I'll support this safety bill on our roads. Of course, traffic safety is increasing this way, and we do it every time we change. I would take the opportunity to say something else very briefly. In fact, for a more favourable atmosphere on our roads, surely it should be more tolerance and more solidarity for our drivers because good driving does not mean just knowing the regulations and having quick reflexes but also being responsible for traffic. I have my opinions, and I have seen that a colleague of the Hrelja has also read the proposal of the City Association, so I am of the opinion that the jurisdiction and authority of the civil traffic police should be strengthened. That is why it will also need to change the Road Safety Act, in fact, to extend the competences of the civilian traffic police, so that, in such changes, additional activities are actually foreseen and these are actually the detection of pedestrians and cyclists as well as other road users on pedestrian surfaces and control of the speed of movement of vehicles in populated areas. With regard to the powers of civil transport police, it should in fact provide for the powers to ask the driver for an insight into the driver’s driver’s license and traffic licence, and some valid means of identification from other transport participants. It was also said today about speed, we hear about it every day. I'd like to say a few details. Each nine drives 200 km/h, 13% drives faster than 130 km/h, 12.53 drives faster than 200km/h. Half of Croatian drivers drive faster than Croatian highway restrictions allow. According to data, over 50% said they were going faster than 130km/h. So I think it's worrying data, and even one piece of information that 12.5% of drivers drive faster than 200 miles an hour. These are all the results of the survey on one portal. So it's very important and it's important to control the speed of movement of vehicles in populated places, so I don't think it's necessary to speak further about it, we know what the consequences may be, especially if we have preventive action but it is indisputable that precisely the speed of movement, the jurisdiction of actually civil traffic police or traffic control. And usually, in fact, such control regarding the speed control of the vehicle should not actually be limited to fixed measuring devices, but such devices should exist in other places where actually overspeed may be present, and it is present everywhere on the road network. There's something else I'd like to say about alcohol. Drivers, motorcyclists, cyclists and all other traffic participants must know that even the least amount of alcohol endangers road safety because, of course, alcohol degrades the safety or ability of the driver no matter how experienced they are in driving. Also, I have to tell you that long-term alcohol remains in the blood. It takes six to 12 hours, and sometimes with stronger drunkenness and a full 24 hours to make alcohol completely disappear from the organism. We know what happens to heavy drinking the weekend of our youth. Therefore, I think that not only by repression but by preventing it, we must act on drinking alcohol. Preventive programs, healthy lifestyles where drinking alcohol belongs, and also drugs where you're actually talking about bans. I don't get it, and last time I talked about it a few articles, so now I'm just repeating one of the ones that says I think it's an article 34 that says it's forbidden to give vehicles to another who has some kind of medicine in him that acts on the reduction of psycho-physical ability. How do you know that? When we give someone a vehicle, we borrow or give them how we can measure whether they took the medicine, whether they have a medicine that works to reduce their psychophysical ability. Thank you very much. So, of course, I support this law because it certainly contributes to increasing security and I hope that we will continue to have changes and, of course, increase traffic safety every time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75335	Thank you. Final review by State Secretary Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75336	Thank you very much. Let me just give a brief clarification on this initiative of the City Association. In fact, in a law that came into force in 2004, where such possibility was provided for units of local self-government to carry out those jobs indicated by the association of cities. However, the practice has shown until the change in 2008 and so far until these changes that almost one unit of local self-government has not started to do these jobs because the organisation of these jobs required certain costs – supply of equipment, training of people. And then, in this article of the law, as it was proposed, we focused only on those jobs that we think really are of interest to local self-government units on jobs that will not require additional funding at least are not more significant. And accordingly, it has proved to be well regulated because so far 23 cities and municipalities have organised traffic planning in accordance with these existing solutions referred to in Article 5. And we believe that for the time being, especially because of the recession and the fiscal low capacity of cities, there is no need to prescribe other jobs that can be done. But there is absolutely no obstacle to future changes and these jobs being prescribed as possible jurisdiction of local self-government units. So we focused on what was so far important and what the units of local self-government and organized proved to be a really good solution. I thank you for the debate and just to say that on behalf of the applicant we accept the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75337	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75338	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. This is a second reading, P.Z.E. Number 639. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed, amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of 98 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and nothing against along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75339	We move to the next point - Proposal for a law on courts for youth, first reading, P.Z. No. 828. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and Justice. You received the reports at the session. Proposer representative State Secretary at the Justice Ministry Tatijana Vučetic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75340	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here is the honourable advocates and advocates of the Bill of Juvenile Courts. Since the adoption of the first Croatian Law on Juvenile Courts, more than a decade has passed. The current Youth Court Act was passed on 19.9.97. He's been through two changes ever since. New institutions have been introduced in modern criminal rights over the last decade to alternative treatment for young offenders. Taking into account the specificities of proceedings against minors in the making of the law, institutions that must comply with the new Criminal Procedure Act have been considered. There have been radical changes in the structure of the data collection process in accordance with the new Criminal Procedure Act. In lawmaking, international documents were also taken into account for the best interests of minors. The proposed law contains provisions of material criminal law governing general issues relating to minors and minors, the organisational provisions of the courts for youth, the specific provisions of criminal proceedings governing the handling of minors, the provisions on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, and the rules on the protection of children. Article 4 is new among the principles. It declares, as a principle, the obligation of emergency action in all cases of criminal offences which is likely to have been committed by a minor, a younger adult, as well as in cases of criminal and legal protection of children. The law is marked significantly by the central and active role of the court which guarantees the perpetrator, but also by the victim such a position that special rights and interests that mark those persons can be achieved optimally. In particular, the fundamental rights of minors under which proceedings are conducted regarding the exclusive judicial decision on procedures in rights and freedoms, inviolability of a person and obligation of defence, etc. have been extended. Mandatory defence of minors has been extended since a minor must have a defender from the first trial to the finality of the criminal proceedings. Three types of sanctions are imposed on minors for crimes committed, as prescribed by the current law as sanctions: educational measures, juvenile prisons and security measures. A juvenile prison can only be given to an elderly minor. This is regulated as before, but for a criminal offence for which the sentence of imprisonment is prescribed in the law for three years and a more severe penalty when, in view of the nature and severity of the offense and the high degree of guilt, it would not be justified to impose a punitive measure, but should already be punished. Where there are conditions under the Criminal Procedure Act for determining an investigative prison against a minor, accommodation will be determined in the so-called so-called so-called ‘determination’. a closed office. An investigative prison can only be determined according to an elderly minor, and it is extremely an extreme measure. Accommodation of minors in a closed institution is more appropriate in the form of a lack of freedom, since according to a minor, appropriate steps can be taken immediately, and such accommodation is also included for the sake of its character during the duration of the educational measure or in juvenile prison. In this way, minors would be in a much more favourable position than under the existing rules, especially younger minors who, according to current regulations, could not be included in the time of imprisonment in the imposed sanction, i.e. the educational measure. The paper and the provision which determines the mandatory examination of minors as the first evidence action in the procedure, irrespective of whether it is only the carrying out of evidence actions, or the conduct of the preparatory procedure, the minor shall immediately have knowledge of the procedure conducted by the State's attorney, the right to review the file and the active participation in the actions, each and not just the first examination of minors. Before making a proposal to impose a juvenile sanction, a public lawyer must question a minor, a provision giving a minor an opportunity to enter a plea before making a proposal to impose a juvenile sanction. Articles 113 to 121 shall provide for the protection of children. It is an important provision under which competition in jurisdiction is resolved in favour of the youth court. Namely, in a unique procedure for a criminal offence in this article, and for another criminal offence is the court responsible for youth. The law also provides for urgent treatment in certain cases, according to that provision when the police find out that a criminal offence referred to in Article 113(3) has been committed against the child for which the sentence of imprisonment has been prescribed for 3 years and is more severe, they will immediately inform the State's attorney for youth, the competent state's attorney for youth, no later than 3 days after the application of the criminal offence against freedom, sexual freedom and leprosy and against marriage, family and youth, the judge of the youth investigation, to submit a proposal for the maintenance of the evidence hearing for the examination of the child as a witness. If, as a witness, a child is examined by a criminal offence referred to in Article 113 who did not turn 16 at the time of the study, such an examination will always be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Criminal Procedure for the Child's Examining as a witness referred to in Article 292(1). The study may also be attended by a trusted person. As witnesses to a criminal offence referred to in Article 113, children may, instead of in court, be examined in their own apartment, or in another specially equipped space. A State lawyer shall be obliged to request the Social Care Centre to initiate an extra-parity procedure against parents who abuse or harshly violate parental responsibility, duty and rights to the right to parental care or the right to live with a child when it is established during the criminal proceedings. Finally, in view of the fact that the scope of the amendment and the addition of the applicable law goes beyond one third of the provisions of the amended provisions, it was necessary to adopt, propose the adoption of a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75341	Thank you. The Legislative Committee, the Justice Committee? The chairman of Mrs. Ana Lovrin's board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Justice Committee considered the proposal of the Law on Juvenile Courts as a home working body. In the opening statement of its proposal, it highlighted all the relevant provisions to be regulated and established by this law, as we have heard here before, on behalf of the Proposer. Therefore, in the debate, the committee members unanimously supported the proposal of the Law on Juvenile Courts, and presented the following comments and opinions to the text of the proposal. It is therefore proposed to supplement Article 5(2) in a way that safety measures can be imposed on a younger minor with educational measures. All of this has been studied in Article 5, but perhaps in a slightly incomprehensible way, so paragraph 2 would lead to the fact that a minor, a younger minor, cannot be given any other sanctions than an educational measure, however, it is obvious that the intention of the legislator is also possible with the punishment of a juvenile prison, and, with an educational measure, a security measure, of course, in accordance with the other provisions of this law. Furthermore, the view that Article 38 governing that youth judges in municipal and county courts and state lawyers acting before courts should have a distinct tendency to raise, need and break young people, and certain knowledge from other areas, should be extended to other proceedings involving state lawyers, in accordance with this law, and not only to act before courts, so also from the beginning of the proceedings, so also in that part of the state-law investigation. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously decided, with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly, that the proposal for a Law on Courts for Youth should be adopted, since it is a matter of first reading, any objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be referred to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75343	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club, Ms. Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what Mrs. Secretary of State said, and let's all remember now that she's 14 years old when the Youth Court Act was first passed, which was then modernised in '98. and in 2002 and later on in several, and later on, there were speeches to change him, and we at the SDP Club are surprised that the proposal had happened since 2006, which is probably how long this proposal, this Youth Court Act, was born. As the provision of Article 1, as well as the present proposal, in essence, is the content of the law? I think it is quite clear that there are both material provisions and procedural provisions, and provisions on the enforcement of sanctions, as well as rules on the criminal protection of children, which means that these laws correspond to, according to this law, the adult persons, when the offence is committed to children, i.e. children, i.e. children, and the child is considered until the age of 18, when the victim is a victim. Of course, these changes have also occurred in light of the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, that is, our most important amendments that we have abolished the judicial investigation, and that we have launched a state-of-the-art investigation. The profession here is unanimity, and the profession is considered, so we at the SDP club, too, think that there is plenty of time to think about it until the final proposal, until the second reading, to give up the proposal to simply give up the new Law on Penal Procedures in the Youth Court Act. That wouldn't be good, either. Therefore, in view of boredom in some way of the declared objectives and the purpose of criminal law provisions in relation to minor perpetrators of criminal offences, it is good to note that this termology has remained so far, that criminal proceedings are not against minors but against minors. Which means society doesn't sort of get into a trade relationship with him. You've committed this crime, by law you get so much punishment, and we have nothing left with you anymore. It is dangerous behavior, it has an Anglo-Saxon system in some countries of America that has proved absolutely ineffective in such a way to treat the perpetrator, you simply suggest to him, or when the state has raised its hands in terms of its obligation to have an educational effect on such a person and even in the treatment itself, the disastrous consequences in terms of return, and especially towards minors should be careful. There must be no authority here, no government must give up on populist demands when we have and I would say such crimes by minors to cause serious concerns, but then, above all, the elderly must be concerned about what it is with youth, what a terrible act of youth makes for minors. Something that was recently foreign. They mostly committed crimes against property. So, stealing and stealing are easier, I'm not talking about robbery thefts. Unfortunately, this is a major problem in countries that are rising by developed democracy, a stable judicial system where it simply capitulates this system where juvenile delinquency is in terrible expansion. I'm just going to point out the example of Great Britain, they're just saying that there's a great percentage of immigration. But is that exactly what it is? So whenever we talk about juvenile crime, society can never wash its hands, generally when it comes to crime, especially children. What is it, where has this society failed to behave in this way, that is, highly criminal? Because of this, above all, of respecting UN minimum rules for juvenile justice, which we know as so-called professions. Beijing rules proposed solutions, I believe that some of the proposed solutions are not in line with these principles and that they are essentially a step back in practice so far and in such a legislative proposal. According to the existing Law on Juvenile Courts in the focus of the interest of criminal law enforcement, therefore not against but against minor perpetrators of criminal offences, it was therefore a provision, we must not abandon, provide protection, care, assistance and supervision. No matter what the public assessment is about to be. Because it's devastating to say different behavior. Because we will send this minor to prison if we raise our hands from him, and especially if they are raised by abandoned children, no matter what material opportunities they are, they are raised by abandoned children, or young ones. Therefore, the procedure for minors should be brought up, continued in the trial phase, without speaking in the sanction process, which then really leads to a whole educational process in the treatment of minors. And when this problem is approached and this is how it is done, it is really very rare for such persons. But since I mentioned these Beijing rules, I'd like to point out a special rule of 5/1. stressing that under the objectives of the juvenile justice system, this is precisely the same: the well-being of minors and the assurance that the purpose of the reaction to minors will be in line with the circumstances relating to the perpetrator and the work done. But rule 14/2. and it is necessary to conduct the procedure in the best interests of minors and to implement in the atmosphere of understanding which will enable the minor to participate and express freely. This must not be lost in the trial of minors in any way. Now the question arises if we exclude the judge of youth as an investigative judge and make a review of the state's attorney's investigation as far as it's possible to carry out such principles in this kind of procedure? We all remember when we were all here complicated about the investigation being transferred to the pre-trial phase, so to get rid of the judicial investigation because it has become in some way the brakes of the development of the system itself, i.e. the efficiency of the proceedings. And if once upon a time, we once had a police investigation, or then a police investigation, so it was the establishment of '67. Judge, the investigative judge was the salvation of the defendant, the salvation of human freedom. There was no more bonding to the radiators with the wire and so on. That was impossible then. But it has been shown, therefore, through further development that it is a brake of development, repeating the same actions at several stages, investigations, trials, possibly if there is a suspension of re-examination, and in the end everyone knows what happened at the pub, someone knows something about the police, and no one else knew what happened or would remember in front of the court, which deliberately, which is unintentional. So the basic motive was speed and efficiency of action. Of course, that the basic motive of a quick trial is also for minors, that they are extremely urgent, and that is because a minor needs to act quickly because he somehow did a youth quickly and forgets and then takes something serious to happen if he calls him to responsibility after all this time. But the point is to keep a youth judge here who will make sure during the entire procedure that the juvenile's right is not only compromised but also during the procedure that all measures are required at the end and that he is taking care of his retraining. So these persons, and we can't ask the state's attorney because by nature things are educated to persecute, not to have an educational effect not to look at the defendant himself, and that's here of crucial importance. So, if we put that jurisdiction on the state's attorney to conduct investigations against minors, we simply put him in an impossible situation that no man can mentally endure. It's like putting both defenses and charges in the same person, with the intensity that he takes care equally of defense breachs and persecutors. It's simply not possible in one person. The judge is a different matter. It's his right to make decisions. But also, at this stage, the educational influence must be emphasized because we remember that in our Law by criminal procedure that the procedure can then be concluded by one settlement especially when it comes to serious criminal acts, especially when it comes to the recognition, disclosure of accomplices, and at a full earlier stage of the procedure itself. The Youth Court Act is a special law of lex specialis and as such is not necessarily subject to the provisions on the investigation of the Criminal Procedure Act and it is one of the reasons why we do not have to if it is not really an assessment, and I would then say the wrong assessment if it persists on such a proposal. In particular, I will stress the preparatory procedure of the Youth Judge and the introduction of a state lawyer at that stage of criminal proceedings is something that has never been prepared so far and has not been prepared in this regard by all the youth participants where this is a matter of urgency because they have simply not been prepared for such a proposal. And we remember when the Law on Criminal Procedure was passed for several years, 7, 8 years if not more and prepared and educated both state lawyers and judges, and also lawyers for a new role that was set up by the Law on Criminal Procedure. Namely, the union of two functions in the person of one judge does not constitute a violation of the right to justice, so I will quote you the provision of Article 6. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms where the European Court of Human Rights in its decision of 2 July 1992 did not discuss the principle of whether Article 6(1) of the Convention should be applied in the same way as in the criminal proceedings against adult offenders, but it explicitly stated one of the judges, Judge Moriel, who literally claims "Every minor has the right to equal protection of his rights and the state of development of his personality, and therefore his limited social responsibilities should be taken into account in the application of Article 6 of the Convention". Therefore, the right of each accused individual to be tried by an impartial court is not incompatible with the protective treatment of a minor. Therefore, the cumulation of these two functions, both investigative and judicial, as well as the judge for minors does not constitute an infringement of Article 6 of the Convention so that you can immediately reject it. So the current youth courts organization, I'd say in full organizational terms and now and in person, so how much we've educated all this time and judges for youth. That's where we got a pretty good bar both in the judiciary and in the police who became particularly sensitive to this kind of problem and now what's good for us is that the devil doesn't give us the peace we're going to break. You have also done so in eliminating some of the trade courts that have been doing well, thus jeopardizing the survival or efficiency of the neighbours you have attached them to. It doesn't have anything to do with this thing right now, but it does matter if it pops up and doesn't need to be touched. There may still be talk about a stricter punishment, but the point is, the concept that a person who has revived who has been systematically working for years should not be touched. Here I would just point out that in that sense goes both German law and Austrian law if I don't speak both laws and regions. Here I am, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, supporting all these changes except for this fundamental change in the sense that for minors I would be in the investigation of a competent state attorney and not a judge like so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75345	Thank you. The HDZ club is Mrs. Ana Lovrin's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75346	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Juvenile Courts. We particularly welcome that the proposer has decided on a proposal for a new law because it is more than a third of the legal text and has not come into temptation to propose amendments and additions. So maybe that's why they're bringing it in and some possible little mix-up to deal with a whole new law. So, I would say that this is about a bill that continues to apply to the existing Law on Courts, of course, which is in line with new institutions in the area of criminal law in Europe and beyond, and especially in relation to this so-called. Juvenile criminal law. We can doubt if we talked about it and on the board ate this name of the Youth Court Act the happiest name for this law. It is, in fact, a law that lays down provisions on young perpetrators of criminal offences in material criminal law, provisions on courts, provisions on criminal proceedings on the enforcement of sanctions and rules on the criminal protection of children. How this name of the law suggests the Law of Courts might then be thought of by the term that it is merely the structure and organisation of certain special courts. But here we are not, we didn't have a very good suggestion for anything else, so if the promoter can do another reading or I don't know how to suggest something better. Of course, with respect that since 1997, when this law was first passed in Croatia, we have in some way become accustomed to that name. So here, from 14 years ago, when the law was passed, it changed in criminal law practice, and also in professional circles, a series of new institutes were introduced that should certainly be taken into account by our law. In addition, a law on criminal proceedings that regulates criminal proceedings has also been passed in Croatia in a completely new way, so the state's attorney's investigation takes the law into account very soon, and it should have been taken into account in the adoption of this new Law on Juvenile Courts, as it also treats procedural criminal provisions. So now that we are not repeating everything that the president of the proposer has elaborated on what this law refers to, I believe that in a series of provisions he has sought to do exactly what we have already heard the debate about, which is that the primary purpose of criminal law, procedural and material law, is that the sanctions should be brought up and brought to the perpetrator, but also to all others to stay away from committing a crime. Of course, we are witnessing that young people also commit serious crimes, that as we often see, they are more aggressive and should find the right measure to put an end to it. Of course, we are aware that by punishing and sending young people into ordinary, colloquial prisons, we will hardly reach that educational measure that young people need. Therefore, such a law should lay down specific sanctions which focus primarily on educational measures and resociation measures. So this bill and I may not agree with this debate, so that we do not want the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, which provides for the State's Attorney's investigation and the previous procedure. In fact, we agreed when adopting the Law on Criminal Procedure, and then we were careful because it is a fundamental matter to be looked after, which is on the one hand the protection of human rights and perpetrators but also the sacrifice, and on the other, the effective and effective and rapid punishment of the perpetrators of criminal acts and the protection of social goods. Therefore, this law also stipulates that in the conduct of the youth, it is five years special judges for youth, as well as state lawyers for youth, and we have heard just the comment of the Justice Committee that we have said that those who act in the process of young people must have a tendency to raise, the needs of a youth breakthrough that they must have certain knowledge of this area. And we have made remarks that this should be extended to participants in this pre-trial procedure, so in the state's attorney's investigation, and that there is no obstacle to that because the law provides that state lawyers should also be appointed in time of five years as special state lawyers for youth. Furthermore, in the case of minors and minors, this law also provides for the central and active role of the court when treating a minor as a perpetrator, but also as a victim, and there is a procedure of exclusive judicial decision-making in proceedings in the rights and freedoms, inviolability of a person, compulsory defences, etc. So then there's a mandatory defense of a minor who's been expanded in a way that a minor has to have a defender since the first trial. Also, through me, I would say the whole law, is a declared obligation of urgency in all cases of criminal offences likely to have been committed by a minor, but also an emergency procedure for all proceedings in which the victim, or in which the offence was committed to the harm of a minor, or to the harm of a child. It is also a newspaper, therefore, because, not to repeat, this law has a series of provisions and existing Law on Juvenile Courts, which have proved to be good in the implementation of 14 years and there is no reason to change them. So here is the provision that minors can be given exclusively a punitive sanction, a punitive measure with a security measure, and a juvenile prison that can only be given to an elderly minor, which has been so far, but only for a criminal offence for which the sentence of three years or more is prescribed in law, when this is appropriate in view of the nature and severity of the offense and the high degree of guilt. I would also say that in relation to the state's attorneys, because we've heard here that state lawyers are some persecutors who, by nature, are such bloodthirsty persecutors and that they can't have one procedure for minors who would go in the direction of educational action. However, I warn the article 73, which regulates the decision of a state attorney towards purpose, and then the article says if a minor is already in the process of executing a penalty or an educational measure or a social care measure, then a state attorney may decide that for reasons of purpose it is not necessary to conduct a procedure for a new criminal offence if these already existing measures would have acted sufficiently educationally on a minor so that he is in some way not infected, criminally infected, perhaps somewhere in another environment. It is also a newspaper of this law that goes in the direction of above all educational action towards the perpetrators, of course not diminishing and not covering up his guilt for committing a crime. But if there are conditions, then an investigative prison can be determined according to a minor only in exceptional and extreme cases. However, if such conditions exist, the minor will be determined then accommodation in a closed office because such a closed office may already be in place and then educational measures, treatment, etc. can be applied at that time. which will certainly be useful for such a minor, as I have said in an educational sense and for further resociation, and will also be allowed to spend that time in such a closed institution and be included in that sanction which, after a powerful verdict, is obtained. Here is also an important part of this Law that speaks of criminal and legal protection of a child, so here according to the United Nations Convention here in this section is a child and defined as a person younger than 18 years old. So, in relation to criminal justice, it's considered a child every year up to the age of 18. For now, according to our Penal Code, a child who doesn't fit up to 14 years of age and between 14 and 18 is a minor. I believe that after the adoption of the new Penal Code, given the international conventions, they will need that terminology and change, but that will be when it does. What else is important? Here I also said an emergency procedure in case of proceedings when the crime was committed at the expense of the child. Furthermore, the provision that, in the event of competition with the jurisdiction of courts for youth and other courts, courts for youth will take precedence when tried by the perpetrator, the adult perpetrator of a criminal offence, even though he is tried for several crimes that the court for youth will be competent if, in one case, it is a criminal offence to the harm of minors. And what's very important and what's new, which is good. Therefore, if a child who is damaged by a criminal offence is examined, if he is under 16 years of age, or a minor under 16 years of age, that the examination will always be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, on a child's study as a witness. So somewhere outside it can be out of court, at home or elsewhere. And the trial can always be attended by a person whose child trusts. For all of these reasons, for reasons of first reading, all comments and suggestions will surely be questioned by the promoter. I believe and respect some remarks. Here, I'd just end up saying maybe to think about the law being called the Youth Court Act. The term of youth is nowhere to be determined by any regulation nor by anything, and further by law we are talking about young perpetrators, a minor, an elderly minor, a minor, the jurisdiction of this court up to 23 years of life, and this is no longer a younger adult, so perhaps some termology of this whole thing could be cleaned up a little bit, or a little clearer in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75347	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, most of the time, we've heard everything that brings us the Youth Court Act in the first reading, that was passed in '97. And that was the first time in our legislation. Of course, it is also subject to the modern procedure of applying to minors who are perpetrators of criminal acts. She also handles victims, and definitely the secretary of state talked about the reasons for which the new law is now being passed, so there's no need to repeat it. The new Article 4 undertakes urgent treatment in all criminal offences committed by minors, minors as well as in the protection of children. As we also heard the central role and the active role of the court, so the minor and the perpetrator will have a position to make themselves optimal, therefore, to the greatest extent possible, to achieve special rights and to protect the interests of those persons. The fundamental rights of minors under which the procedure for the non-violence of a person, mandatory defences, has been extended, and it is also as we have heard and expanded. A minor must have a defender regardless of the severity of the crime and therefore it is not disputed. And from the first study until the end of the procedure when making the decision to replace the educational measure with a production measure, an educational measure and a subsequent sentence of a juvenile prison. New obligations of controlled availability are introduced by means of a restraining or harassment ban, leaving the choice of another person who is suitable for the performance of the traits as well as some other circumstances, and for example, we start with a minor. The investigation prison can only be determined according to senior minors we also heard and it is only exceptional as a final measure and is included during the duration of the institute measure, and earlier this was not possible, and then I will now skip all these possible variations. It is mandatory to examine minors as the first evidence store, so the minor actively participates in all actions and will definitely then and any measure that will be given him will have a completely different dimension, which is actually the purpose of such a law. The law prescribes which crimes committed to harm children are tried by courts for youth. Now the law says that youth courts will judge adults for acts of child harm. The secretary of state also said what competition is competent. It is important to point out and to act urgently. So if the police find out about an act committed to harming the child, for which a sentence of 3 or more years is prescribed, then they will immediately inform the state's attorney for youth, and the lawyer will also, within 3 days of the application, notify the judge of the youth investigation and put forward a proposal for the maintenance of the evidence hearing to examine the child as a witness. The law takes account and I personally think it is very important that, so it enables a child who has been damaged by a criminal offence, and it did not end up 16 years of his life to be a trusted person with an interview, and it does not necessarily have to be conducted in a court of law, but either in an apartment or in another room that is suitable for such a kind of conversation. Here are the MPs who had the opportunity to read or read the 2010 Ombudsman’s report, who could read in a segment of that report that pointed out a parent’s inquiry into the duty of a witness child and his hearing. So the new law abolishes the strict form and it will no longer be for the child of torture. I think that's a really good step. This is especially important if a child will have to testify in a criminal act, when the perpetrator is his parent, of course, to his harm. We should thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia because the Ministry of the Interior recognized these problems facing children when being questioned, so they are, for example, equipped 15 police stations per room for an interview with children, to make the child feel comfortable and to somewhat amortize stress because of the situation in which such a child is located. Here is also for the end we heard that when a state attorney notices, that is, abuse or rude violation of parental responsibility, he cannot, therefore, but is obliged to request the launch of an extra-party procedure by the Centre for Social Care, to deprive parental care, the right to parental care, or to take away the right to the life of parents with a child. Here I will support the adoption of this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75349	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I am neither an expert nor a court expert, but I am aware of the violence and juvenile delinquency, so I will look very briefly at this law as well. I hope, in fact, that these changes, these changes, they actually adapt to the existing new age of violence, violence of children against children, violence of children even to adults, or violence against children. Of course, measures and sanctions against minors have been tightened, but mechanisms for the protection of their rights are being implemented, during the investigations, which is very important. I'm going to ask you a question because there's something I don't understand. the matter of urgency in the course of the proceedings I welcome, I have failed to understand what control mechanism is, or sanctions if the court does not carry out in an emergency procedure of the work committed by a minor or who have committed to the harm of minors. So I would ask you nicely later to explain it to me. Otherwise, the urgency in acting is very important, because in the case of minors in the educational socialist effect, which is very important to actually start as short a time as possible, to pass as short a time as possible from doing the work to the consequences that society must offer as a response to the minor. Of course, the defence of minors is also mandatory, it has been extended, since a minor must have a defender from the first trial, to the finality of the criminal proceedings in making a decision to replace the educational measure with educational measures and the subsequent sentence of juvenile prison. According to the draft law, the mandatory defence of minors is not dependent on the severity of the crime. A juvenile defender can only be a lawyer. According to the applicable law, the defence of minors is mandatory in the criminal proceedings for which more than 3 years of imprisonment is prescribed, and for the other offences for which a minor is ordered a minor sentence, if the judge considers that the minor is in need of a defendant. The same is another question, it said, that the budget will not require additional funding for the implementation of this law, and the mandatory defence of minors is extended, which requires, of course, more funding for the costs of lawyers who defend minors under official duty. When we talk about this law, then I'm actually looking, I'm looking at kids that are somewhere at the end of their own path, and of course it needs to be helped and given to them, we can call one correctional exam, but I'd actually come back a little before that, before the child comes into this situation at all, so she'd actually wonder if the welfare centers are also enough, no offense, whether they're capable, or whether they have enough staff, maybe better say they're doing the tasks that they're actually given, so that it doesn't actually happen that the unadjusted behavior of children goes into some kind of juvenile crime, and later on, in a possible crime. Or we come back early, we go back to prevention, we go back to schools, and that's why I appeal that we should be able to identify as early as possible at a child's age this kind of behavior, which, of course, can be further generated in these things that we're discussing today. Here's once again, of course, I support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75351	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Tatjana Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, as it comes to first reading, I would just like to thank you for the discussions and the suggestions that we will definitely consider between the two readings, and I have remained the answer to the esteemed MPs. So all treatment against a minor of all institutions is much shorter than the Code of Criminal Procedure. Therefore, all bodies, as well as all institutions that require any documents on the basis of which they could then be handled, are obliged to deliver them as soon as possible and to act as soon as possible. The sanctions for this are not in the classical sense sanctioned by some prison type or some fine, but you know that all the authorities of the state administration, i.e. all the state attorneys and judges as judicial officials, are subject to a strict procedure unless they comply with what they are under the law and in the manner in which they are ordered by law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75353	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75354	We're moving on to the draft law on youth courts, it was first reading, P.Z. The number 828th Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a law on youth courts is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion. Score. This proposal for a conclusion was adopted by a majority of 79 votes in favour, 20 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75355	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 832 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. State Secretary at the Justice Ministry Tatjana Vučetic will further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. In front of you, we'd say another amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. In particular, the new system of criminal proceedings rules has contributed significantly to the objectives of criminal proceedings and thus to the rule of law at the initial stage of application. This is particularly visible in cases of serious crime which, by its scale and structure, attacks the very foundations of democratic society and the formation of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of new rules on criminal proceedings is an important step-by-step procedure in matters relevant to citizens, but also for society as a whole. The law contains many new provisions, should be followed in practical application and should be amended or complemented in order to optimalise the rules of criminal proceedings. For the first time, the first period of application of the new rules in the matters under the competence of the SCIK has indicated that certain provisions should be amended or supplemented. The practice of transnational European protection of human rights and freedoms indicates that there are no permanent and unchangeable provisions anymore, as the concept of human rights is constantly developing and updates the protection of citizens and society from dangerous attacks on their fundamental rights and freedoms while taking account of fundamental human rights from the intervention of the body of state authorities. What's new and what's different about this proposal? In law, it was primarily necessary to add to the provisions of jurisdiction which were not so far because, under the existing law, it was to be governed by the rules on the establishment of criminal courts. A very important amendment of the provisions of jurisdiction and in comparison with the '97 Criminal Procedure Act. The year is the introduction of the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia. The court is due to begin its work on 1 January 2015, and is responsible for resolving complaints against municipal and county courts in the second degree. This significantly contributes to the unification of judicial practice, the speed of work, the fact that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia judges in second degree in criminal cases, which, in fact, allows the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to fulfil its primary task. The following is the task of amending and supplementing certain provisions to which the practice in the so-called so-called cases has shown. It's a leap of jurisdiction. It is limited procedures in the structure of the legal text which are urgent from the point of view of the application of the law because it will facilitate and improve the application of new institutions and the position of individual participants and make them clearer. Furthermore, these amendments and additions also focus on the adoption of the European Commission experts' remarks and proposals. On several occasions, we have received some proposals to improve the text of the law by European experts, and thus the quality of the criminal procedure itself. These proposals mainly referred to the extension of the deadlines for the police and the State's attorney in the previous proceedings. It is also important to stress that the adoption of these recommendations also means meeting the criteria for closing Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. In addition to the one mentioned from 1 January of this year, as you know, the Act on the confiscation of property benefit procedure has entered into force by criminal act and offence. The process of confiscation of the property benefit achieved by the criminal act is now governed by the law mentioned and it was accordingly necessary to amend the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Important substantive changes and additions to the law concern the establishment of equality between parties and in the previous procedure. To that end, Article 184 has been amended in such a way that the right to review the file is extended and more precisely determined depending naturally on the taking of the evidence. General condition is the previous examination of the defendants. Viewing the file is an extremely important right that forms an essential component of good defense. The proposed amendments resolved this important issue in favour of the defendant. The equality of parties in the previous procedure is also important in addition to Article 213 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The supplement is aimed at strengthening the party position of a suspect who has the right to propose to a state attorney to be questioned. This is an extremely significant amendment that guarantees the suspect already in the previous procedure that he may propose his examination of what the final decision is about. This significantly improved the equality of parties in the proceedings prior to the indictment and in fact established the duty of a state attorney to examine the defendant when he so requests. Amendments and additions to Article 234(1) shall also focus on extending the rights of the defendants in the previous procedure and prescribing the obligation to comply with his proposal to take evidence actions. Such actions taken on the proposal of the defendant must be notified to him or the defender within the appropriate time limit in order to be able to attend the evidence action. Certain issues are also particularly important for the formal defence of the defendants, such as the addition of Article 65 to the explicit provision that the defendant may also have a defender in the process of exceptional legal remedies, i.e. amendments and additions to Article 72, which extends the rights of defenders to the burden of budgetary resources. The amendments also clarified the role of the prison overseer and made it clear that he was not involved in the investigations. It was also simplified to end an investigative prison when a state's attorney suggests it. Furthermore, in particularly complex cases of a panel meeting, the defendant shall be held within 1 month if the defendant is deprived of liberty, i.e. 3 months if the defendant is at large. It's also a different arrangement and the right to set up so-called. "additional questions" in such a way that the same has been extended to the situation where the witness has already been examined on the basis of a proposal from the opposite party or when the witness or the expert avoids the answers, and a new item has been added in which the parties and the defender may, immediately after the question has been asked, raise their objection to the inadmissibility of the issue, and the court shall decide immediately on this objection. Amendments have also been proposed regarding the renewal of the criminal proceedings. With this proposal, the amendments give the convict the right to request the renewal of the procedure within one year from the date on which it is made available to the Croatian authorities. This is because many countries do not know the Institute of Trials in the absence of perpetrators of criminal offences and do not wish to extradite them unless the Republic of Croatia stipulates that the procedure will necessarily be renewed at the request of the convict who has been extradited for the purpose of maintaining the sentence. Finally, Article 502 has also been amended in a way which provides for the renewal of the procedure if the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights finds that the judgment is based on human rights violations and freedoms prescribed by the Constitution or international treaty or the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Here are the shortest amendments to the proposed amendment to the new Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75357	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Justice Committee? The chairman of Mrs. Ana Lovrin's board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75358	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. The Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure with the Final Proposal of the Law as a parent working body. Following the opening statement by the representative of the applicant, which highlighted all the relevant provisions of the proposed amendments and additions during the debate, the Committee members unanimously supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. They agree that the proposed amendments have improved the provisions concerning the position of the defendants. In the previous procedure, the opinion is that the witness hearing should be extended to other issues other than the circumstances proposed. It is suggested that the proposed provision for the establishment of a high criminal court of the Republic of Croatia should also be explained by the projection of the necessary resources in the state budget. It is pointed out that the law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law should be brought into line with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. It is also the opinion of the board members that the provision proposed that only a lawyer who has a practice of at least 8 years is limited in the proceedings for long-term prison offences, given the fact that the defendant is entitled to a free choice of lawyers. After the debate was held, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75359	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The SDP Club not only will not support these amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act but it is fiercely protesting these changes. The amendments are at the heart of the efficiency of the procedure because we are all unanimously here with the consent of will and so expected has been passed a law on criminal proceedings which we have just concised as a state-level law investigation and as an investigation which is a secret and which is conducted without knowledge, or even a potential defendant. For the efficiency of the procedure. Because we said that the judicial investigation is the brakes of development. Apparently, the government was intimidated by the efficiency of the state's attorney's actions, because the only rational explanation is either that or the cry of a fugitive Sanader, so this law could also be cited as a wood sanderis or a lex sanderian. Because the point was that the defendant doesn't even know about the investigation or finds out until he's heard, and before that, they're doing all the research. any witness hearing, any search for material evidence, etc. Now we're going back to the same phase we had earlier, only the investigation was conducted by the court, that the defendant was immediately called, and that's the first action when it was taken, and that there's no solution to the investigation unless the defendant is questioned. Even before that, he was called to be seen so as to give his defense even before the formal opening of the procedure. So, gentlemen, you're scared, you're scared of the efficiency of your actions. And the goal of any criminal procedure law at all from the beginning that had its developmental stage adequately and certain social conditions was that and can only be one goal of blaming him without being convicted. Unfortunately, not only do you give up on being here now is it considered to be a major gain and that these are the remarks of experts. Depends on which experts you get. If you get one opinion from Bulgaria, then you will get one opinion from Romania the second from Poland, and from Italy the gentleman... who, with another of his gentlemen, is proposing to him in our laws concerning the judiciary. I don't know if this is exactly his wetlands. However, if we have opted for such a system and if it has proved effective, why is it now giving up? That's the basic question. What we find in the SDP club is inappropriate, which is the introduction of a high-level criminal court. So, something that was absolutely unknown with us for the first time in our judiciary we introduce a new institution something similar to the Supreme Court to something lower, a high criminal court. Under an empty hall at 7:10 a serious state does not discuss such serious and too serious matters at this time. But that's precisely because we talked about it 15 years ago, the last eight years no one's mentioned it. We know that there was pressure from one part of the Supreme Court judges to introduce a high criminal court because if the Supreme Court were overloaded, he would be dealing with other issues, not those which are primarily in place to decide on complaints. All this could also be done within the Supreme Court that there is a special cassation department in the Supreme Court, and that there are special departments dealing with uniformity of case law. It is quite incorrect to explain the introduction of an institution of a high criminal court for the purpose of unifying case law. The Supreme Court, which decides on complaints, often takes different views in individual councils. And instead of simply taking all possible measures further, if different councils in very similar matters make different decisions, we introduce a high criminal court based in Zagreb but he will not, as he will, even the case-law if there will be several other departments, which is one in Rijeka, one in Split, one in Osijek. When will you arrive at the uniqueness of the interpretation? Due to the speed of action, it is now being introduced even in some cases and three steps, so after the county court, the High Criminal Court, and then again the Supreme Court. And what kind of vision is that of a government that's abolished the courts by yesterday, and now four new courts are going to introduce. That's a lot of resources. Where they're going to put them, they're secure judges, they're insured funds. The government says it is not necessary to implement this law without the need to secure funds because the High Criminal Court would operate somewhere in 2015. So again you have that old habit, the old customs, like from the mid-1990s when you were setting up courts under every almost tree, but only by law, there were no means or judges. Well, then in 2000, when some courts were provided with those funds, so they started working, then you started them when you came to power to shut down. So the absurd situation again, you remove the courts that work, and you establish courts that won't work yet. So when we're ready first, we need to have a broad debate, and the good part of the profession, the State's Attorney's Office, is strictly against the establishment of the High Criminal Court, and it's ignored rather than at night, and it's an emergency procedure. Well, what an emergency for something that will be established in 2015. And one more thing, imagine the arguments that are quite unusual, obviously they weren't people from the ministry, but someone was doing it on the side because first of all they see it in terms of itself and a little bit further from practice. So it is claimed that the High Criminal Court should have been established by the Law on Courts, normally, because the Law on Courts lays down everyone who judges in the Republic of Croatia. And in a particular law, whether it is those who regulate civil law or criminal law matters are then determined by detailed criminal proceedings and detailed treatment in civil trial and civil courts. But then it is claimed here, which is, however, and precisely in this segment, it did not come, the amendments were not implemented in the Law on Courts, so it was necessary to introduce the relevant provisions in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. Very interesting. Or sugarcane law, why not. It's a matter that needs to be settled in the Law of Courts. And it's something terrible that in the Law of Courts, we don't react, but here's what we'd like to say to me is the High Criminal Court, with these changes that we can or don't have to agree with, depending on what the concept is, now the violation of that concept that I initially said is giving up on the true secrecy of the investigation, but this is how one court is added, by the way, the High Criminal Court. So where are these assets, where are these people, what kind of structure would then be the State's Attorney's office because only a certain rank can appear before certain courts. So again and again, new frames, and there's no space. There's not enough space in the existing courts. Where would they be, which would be buildings intended for the High Criminal Court in Zagreb, or departments in Split, Rijeka, Osijek. So you should hire at least 40 people, both judges and new deputies, but it's even less of a problem how much of a problem is precisely the material nature where they need to be secured and buildings. Such a structure should be carefully considered primarily by the professional public that they say their word, but above all it could not have happened without amending the Law on Courts in this formal sense, but cannot happen without prior amendment of the Penal Code. They say the county court is overloaded, exactly, but 50, in some county courts up to 70% of cases, which deals with county courts, these are statistical data, dealing with one single criminal act and one particular form of it in Article 173(2), drug abuse and those easier forms, imagine. And over 537 provisions have the Penal Code, and these courts deal from 50 to 70% with only one criminal act and one of its kind. So the erroneous criminal policy, something that we always say should be removed from a criminal trial, put into criminal jurisdiction to preserve the blade of criminal action, and then see if we need to introduce this kind of cassation court. But the question arises, what will the Supreme Court judges do, and what will they do? Are they members of the DIP? I suggest, gentlemen, that, because of Chapter 23, not only of form but also of the interest of citizens who have begun to value well and the application of this law, you do not ruin things. Do you really have such an irresistible need when people start to brag that it's good for you to suspect that maybe it's a cache, maybe it's not a good thing. Don't give up on something that's good. And here, look at this change that's not rational, it's causing a series of problems. In particular, given the provision of Article 82 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The criminal law under which no one can maintain the property benefit acquired by criminal acts, so by amending paragraph 1 you come to a direct contrast with paragraph 2 of the same article and thus put into danger the application of this valuable institute which is then even elaborated with that law, in full by the law of confiscation of the benefit of the criminal offence and of the blockade and the property that the public welcomes. What we agree with in the SDP Club, which is the provision of Article 5, here as colleague Lovrin warned, and given the position of the Justice Committee, it is a matter of trust of the defendant, his defender, therefore, that he may be young and somewhat older as soon as he is registered in the register of the Bar of Justice, his right to choose his defender from that list. The restriction for a certain age of a lawyer, i.e. his legal practice for eight years when it comes to procedures in extraordinary legal medicines or where a 20-year sentence or a long-term prison is prevented, that a lawyer can only be a defendant who has a practice of at least eight years is re-provoking a first and second-row lawyer, and the matter is primarily trust, and by the way, the question is, whether the state is choosing lawyers who represent her in millions and millions of amounts is looking for such a condition, or then it can be someone who is just now passing a judicial exam. Don't do that. It's a unanimous evaluation and profession of our Justice Committee. And once again at the SDP club, we point out that this law should primarily go into two readings, that one such institution as the high almost same rank as the Supreme Court something lower the High Court of Justice is a mistreatment of the judiciary to pass such a law overnight on the one hand. And on the other hand, give up an effective investigation that we've launched and that's starting to produce first results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75361	Thank you. HDZ Club, Ms. Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75362	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here is the fact that time has eroded me to see that there is not too much interest in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, although this is one of the most important laws in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in other countries. Of course he's important. I would agree with my colleague that, therefore, in the application of criminal law, it is important that the guilty do not escape, and worse still, that the innocent be not charged. In that sense, I feel that these proposed changes and additions are going too. And in another direction, and that's determining real jurisdiction. I would agree that it is not the happiest solution for this law, these amendments and additions to be made in an accelerated shortened procedure. So, with the final bill. But since the Criminal Procedure Act will be in full application since 1.9 this year. Therefore, it is necessary and will then cease to apply in part the law on criminal proceedings so far. Therefore, it is necessary to arrange this legal gap especially in relation to the actual jurisdiction. I wouldn't say anyone was scared of anything. Finally, during this government, this Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted and drawn up. In 2007, guidelines for the drafting of the Criminal Procedure Act were adopted, which went primarily in the direction of more effective and effective prosecution and sanctioning for perpetrators of criminal offences. But, of course, what we always stress in doing so well by measuring the balance between the protection of fundamental rights and the perpetrators and victims and the protection of social goods protected by material criminal law. As we know, there have been a number of objections in the implementation of this jump, for jump-off offences when part of the Criminal Procedure Act was applied precisely to imbalances and to the unequal position of the parties, or to a weaker position, much weaker position of the defendants in this State Attorney's investigation procedure. Therefore, this Law and the constitutional questioning of this law has been requested, and in that sense I think it is a good idea to introduce these few amendments which establish the equality of parties in the previous procedure, and above all this concerns the right to review the file and the preliminary examination of the defendant if he so requests, but on what decision, the final decision shall be taken by the court. It's also a change from the right to renew the criminal proceedings, and now I don't know if we get it right. Therefore, the trial was objecting to a absentee trial under our already existing law, and anyone convicted in absentia had the right to renew the proceedings when it became available to the Croatian judiciary. However, there was an objection that immediately such a person, such a person must be detained immediately, or imprisoned, from prison to seek restoration. Therefore, the provisions have changed in the sense that a person has the right to seek and renew proceedings before it becomes available for certain reasons of course, so that it has the right to seek a state lawyer. But here these amendments and additions are now proposed that, that other countries do not want to extradite a person to the Republic of Croatia unless there is an explicit provision that the procedure will necessarily be renewed when someone, when a convict has been extradited to support the sentence, so I don't know if it is renewed twice. One time until it's available, and then again when it's available here, it's not quite clear to me personally. As far as real jurisdiction is concerned, it really needs to be regulated by this law because it has occurred if the old, or existing CAP, ceases to be in force that there will be no provisions on real jurisdiction. Why isn't that done? Indeed, in the adoption of the Law on the Criminal Procedure of this, let the conditionally said new one, and at that time it was already an initiative, a strong initiative of the Supreme Court for the introduction of a High Court of Criminal Procedure as a court that would singlely resolve in the second degree, in order to remove the position of the Supreme Court which is now a court of appeals against the judgments of the county courts, but at the same time it is a third-degree court, because, in the case of review, the Supreme Court would also be removed by this proposal, and thus, more serious criminal offences would increase the efficiency of the county courts, and a uniform court case would be tried in the second instance in a high criminal court. I must say that here I am also saying that in the first draft of the Law on Criminal Procedure, the initiative by the Supreme Court was very strong, then there were certain doubts in the professional circles, so it was said that this would be determined by the Law on Courts, but in the meantime the proposer stood at the point of view that the provisions on real jurisdiction were not matter to be resolved by the Law on Courts, but that this law only solves the organisation of courts, and that the place of this substance in this Criminal Procedure Act, as is the case with the Law on Prosecution and in other laws, and the Proposer was attached to this solution which he then proposes. Of course, different opinions are possible, I personally have not heard the fierce opposition of the State Attorney's Office, whose representative was on the Justice Committee, not in this regard debated, and of course here I am already dared to say that these also present data on the percentages we have heard, that now county courts are dealing with 50 or 70% exclusively to prosecute for the crimes referred to in Article 173(2), therefore this is abuse and reselling of intoxicating drugs. I dare say that's not true, because otherwise it's so easy to read data, the figures that are then found to be incorrect, so nothing, so we've heard about 200 thousand labour disputes in front of Croatian courts, so the statistics on the court said that there are 14 thousand, and that's a lot, but it's far less than 200 thousand, so I'm saying that this 70% number is certainly not accurate, and there's no need to base and take views on a bill's proposal. This is certainly because the application of the Criminal Procedure Act is very soon in 2 months, it is not necessary to adopt these amendments for 3 months, it is good that there have been some changes in the direction of protection of the defendants, it is not a fear of anyone, we have achieved what was sought to achieve the new Criminal Procedure Act, which is the effectiveness and efficiency and quality of the investigations and actions before the start of the proceedings in the court, so quality assurance of evidence that the court can then and can be judged, because the court cannot judge any other than what has been proven before the court. But here's the SDP says that someone immediately got scared, because there are always double standards, so someone who has anything to do with HDZ is to blame as soon as someone is pointing a finger at him, but that's why SDP always says if they prove to me that I'm guilty, that I'm going to step down, or if I accidentally file criminal charges or press charges, then it's political persecution by spies, etc., so the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75363	Thank you. It's a HNS rep club. ... I'm closing the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75364	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. 832, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who's in favour of having a debate on the government's amendments? Please raise your hands. Thank you. Against? So I find that we have unanimously decided to hold a debate on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendments submitted. Ms Tatijana Vučetic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75365	Thank you, Mr. President. Amendment 1. The Government of the Republic of Croatia in Article 38 amending Article 420(10) shall be amended and read as follows: "In the case referred to in Article 419(1), when the Council decides to provide evidence which has not been proposed or of which the applicant has given up, the examination of witnesses or witches shall be carried out first by the court, then by the Prosecutor, the damageor and the defendant. The reason for this amendment is: this amendment corrects a written error resulting in a call for the wrong provision of the Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75366	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this amendment to the government. I'm closing the debate. Please, who is for this amendment to the government raise your hand. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Unanimity accepted 1st Amendment. 2nd Amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75367	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on criminal proceedings, "The People's News" No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This amendment to the provisions of Article 48 shall cover the technical arrangements.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75368	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the Second Amendment of the Government. I'm closing the debate. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Who is for this amendment 2. Government? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. He was unanimously accepted. Thank you to the secretary of state. The amendments were also submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club and, then, we have the first amendment on Article 2. Please be clear, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75369	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to make a statement if you don't mind the amendment to Article 2 and Article 3 because matter is unique, so it's actually a unique explanation. It's a motion to delete the High Court of Penalty.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75370	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75371	Thank you very much. Therefore, the Government does not accept amendments to Article 2 and Article 3. The High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia would begin its work on 1 January 2015, so it is more than enough time for that body to prepare and conditions and personnel. In particular, given that the establishment of the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia would not result in additional costs in the state budget as it would result in the redistribution of current staff in the county courts in the second degree, as well as the redistribution of existing spatial capacities. More specifically, the High Criminal Court would employ those judges who are now working as second-degree judges in the county courts, and at the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia would be better used so that this solution would actually lead to a kind of rationalisation. It should also be reiterated that by introducing that court, it would primarily mean a significant reduction in the resources of now numerous second-degree judicial bodies. The existence of the Office of the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia except in Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split does not call into question the unification of legal practice, on the contrary. First of all, it would be one court with four outposts, but with a single record of judicial practice and legal understanding, which would be binding on all departments of that court, which is definitely not possible now with 15 county courts taking each of their positions. At least once a month, meetings of all judges of the High Criminal Court would be held. A long-standing and long-term discussion of the expert and public debate has been under way since 1993, contrary to the amendments to the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia. The establishment of the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia must also not be disregarded if we take into account that the establishment of that court will establish better control and prevent local influences on secondary proceedings conducted in the county courts. For example, the case completed in the first degree before the Municipal Court in Osijek could be signified in the second degree to the Department of the High Criminal Court in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75372	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr. Joseph Leco, on behalf of the SDP club. Will you plead for the first and second amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75373	We will also plead for the proposal of the first and the proposal of the second amendment. It should be said that the government declares beautiful goals, but does not support anything that these goals will also be achieved by the proposed reorganisation of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. The SDP club remains in the interest of the continued reorganisation of courts not to promote legal certainty or the efficiency of the trial, but rather to the extent that the Government does not offer an argument that unification or judicial practice will be achieved by this measure. Therefore, the SDP club considers it to be a reorganisation for some other reasons, and the reasons that are acceptable have been declared. But these reasons will not be achieved by reorganisation, but by a better structure in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75374	Who is the first to apply to Article 2 for the amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Secondly, who is for the amendment to article three, the second amendment of the SDP? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And I ask that the Secretary of State be declared on the third amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75375	The amendment is accepted, but in a way that the second paragraph is changed and reads: "The third sentence is changed and it reads: In the criminal proceedings for which the long-term prison term is prescribed, the defendant may be only a lawyer who has a practice of at least eight years as a lawyer or as an official in a judicial body." The amendment to Article 5 has been accepted in a way that, in relation to defenders under official duty or on the burden of budgetary resources, the condition is a practice. In parallel legislation, in cases of the most serious criminal offences, defenders must have a certain practice. The defendant of trust, the defendant can choose freely and regardless of the practice. The adoption of this amendment shall, therefore, ensure that the defendant of the defendants in criminal proceedings for criminal offences for which a long-term prison sentence is prescribed when appointed by the court must be a lawyer with a certain experience. When, on the other hand, the defendant chooses his own defender, then the conditions of experience do not have to be met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75376	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75377	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has accepted our amendment proposal and installed it in what the Government's representative says, so we are withdrawing ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75378	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank the secretary of state, but in the form of how the government has already put it in its amendment. Thank you very much. Therefore, I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Let's get involved and vote please. The result? The law was adopted by a majority of votes, 75 votes for, 2 abstentions and 22 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75379	We will further discuss - - The Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention amending the 1958 Convention on the Identification of Marines, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 822 Legislative, Maritime, Transport and Communications Committees conducted the debate. State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mario Babic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75380	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Really short. Currently, around 13,000 sailors sail around the world's seas, in Croatia about 23,000 are registered, all of them have appropriate identification documents. The 2003 Convention is primarily taken as a preventive measure due to increasing terrorist threats to ships, crews, and passengers. This Convention introduces the so-called so-called Convention. The biometric records of the seamen thus increase their safety and also enable better control of the people staying on board. By confirming the convention, we will address another open issue by Croatian sailors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75381	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. HNS, HSU, Mr. Silvano Hrelja's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75382	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think we will have to change something in our Rules of Procedure about the work of the Croatian Parliament, because there is really no point in discussing when there is less than 10% of the total number of MPs, regardless, I think no one has the right to belittled. ... Less than 5%, thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No one has the right to degrade this topic, because this topic is vital to a number of Croatian sailors. And at first I will say that the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People will support this proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention amending the 1958 Convention on the Identification of Marines, hence for many years when I was born, has lasted so long. So there is no dispute, we will support it, and we are pleased that this bill came so quickly in the debate, because we recently discussed here the maritime code, when I also in the debate on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Pensions drew attention to a particular problem of our seamen in Brazil's ports, where they were prevented from replacing the seamen, leaving to ports, practically threatened with existence because even in the event of urgency, in the event of a need for a doctor, all this was a very, very risky situation. Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Babic, then told us that we are working intensively on bilateral co-operation with Brazilian authorities trying to solve this problem, but what is today ahead of us is that permanent solution for Croatian sailors joining the family of 8th and 18th, respectively, and of 19 countries that ratified the 2003 Convention, which has been in effect since 9th February 2005. And that's actually, that's the real thing. What can always be presided over is that we, as a maritime country, as a maritime-oriented country, as one of the few countries that build large ships that certainly Croatian shipbuilders are proud of and certainly one of the best quality and safest on the world's seas, then it is very difficult to understand how this must happen to us to confirm this convention. I think that as a maritime country, as a maritime-oriented country, a country with a maritime tradition, we have to follow world trends and we can't let us tell us the unscheduledness in the work of competent services is paying the seamen with their problems in the ports. It is certain that this Convention has been adopted primarily for security reasons, as the Secretary of State said, but this Convention makes it easier and the life of the seamen whether it is easier to travel to the place of boarding, whether it is occasional exits on the coast, whether it is to stay at the port of landing. Therefore, the confirmation of this Convention is one cost for the state because it must change all identification documents, but it is a major contribution to the quality of life of our seamen and I think it is among other things the investment of the state and the proof of Croatia's maritime orientation. Therefore, we are pleased that this law has come and it is good that it is under urgent procedure, that the problem is resolved as soon as possible because there is a certain period of 6 months of laying down appropriate documents with depositaries, and then only then will the Convention bind the Republic of Croatia, and that is enough time for all pre-productions to be done in order to technically achieve standards for identification documents that are significantly different, significantly more modern, are biometric. So there's also an electronic database. So, the mass of things in this convention that we confirm by this law are very precisely done, it's not necessary on what the profession said to add nothing, nothing to subtract, there's practically everything envisaged. And once again for the end of the HNS-HSU club will be happy to support the adoption of this law in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75383	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-15-0.u75384	1. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention amending the 1958 Maritime Identification Idmin Convention, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 822 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Convention amending the 1958 Convention on the Identification of Marines Let's take a vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of 98 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, we continue to work on the 23rd session and as announced, we move to the agenda point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 829. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Mr Branko Bačić on behalf of the promoter please.
