ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77945	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. I warmly welcome you all, convinced that after this summer break we have filled our reserves, our batteries and that we can start with greater enthusiasm at the 24th session as we must and conclude that it should be, in fact, the last session of the Croatian Assembly in this 6th session of the Croatian Parliament. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 24th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all one more time. I particularly welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor,... Vice-Presidents and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. ... [[Applause.]] This session begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. [[Applause.]] This session will end early because we have elections and the whole procedure about it. I invite you to pay tribute at the beginning of the session to the country's performance of the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. I invite you to pay tribute to the deceased MPs from the past to Mr Zdenko Matošić, Anti Jelavić-Mitrić, Ivan Milas and Ivo Škrabal, all the fallen Croatian defenders, all the civilian victims of the war and all the fallen ones for Croatia. - A minute of silence. - May they have eternal thanks and glory. Praise them. You received a record of the 23rd session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any objections to the record? If there are no objections, I would like to point out that we have adopted the minutes of the 23rd session of the Parliament in the proposed text. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The proposal for a agenda under points 2 and 2 and then points 4 to 10, from 12 to 14, 16, 17 and from 20 to 22 shall state the laws proposed by emergency procedure. These are: Proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 875, point 2 of the draft agenda. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. Under point 4 of the draft agenda, 869, So everyone's in an emergency procedure not to read it. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 871, under point 5 of the proposal. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the reduction of pensions of certain, i.e. by specific rules on pension insurance, by the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 872, under point 6 of the proposal. Proposal for a law supplementing the Pension Insurance Companies Act and paying for pensions on the basis of individual capitalised savings, with a final draft law, P.Z. No. 874, point 7 of the proposal, Proposal for a law supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, with a final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. 879 under point 8 of the draft agenda, Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. 880, point 9 of the proposal, Proposal for a Law amending the Gas Market Act, with a final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. 881. under point 10 of the proposal, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 870, item 12 of the draft agenda, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Medical Insemination, with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 873, point 13 of the proposal, Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on police cooperation, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. 876, point 14. of the draft agenda, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. Point 877, of the 16th draft agenda, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Law, with a final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. 878, item 17 of the draft agenda, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties, with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. No. 882, item 20 of the draft agenda, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Implementation Project of the Integrated Land Administration System, with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 883 point 21 of the draft agenda, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law, with the final proposal for a law, P.Z. No. 884, point 22 of the draft agenda. Do any of the MPs have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws, individual laws? There isn't. I stress that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties, with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z.E. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. We are going to vote on the urgency of the procedure on the other laws. Please engage to check the quorum so we can vote. Score. This is where 89 present MPs and MPs checked in, so we have a quorum to decide on the agenda, so we're going to move on to a decision. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament, P.Z. No. 875, point 2? If not, we're going to vote with this proposal. Let's please get involved and vote on urgency. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Against urgency? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's a suggestion not to accept an emergency procedure when passing this law. Is there a need for an explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77946	Of course he does. Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government. The government is an executive body, the Parliament is a legislative body and I see no reason for the Government to assume the powers of a legislative body such as the Croatian Parliament and that is the main objection to this law which should neither be put on the agenda nor passed because it is the interference of the executive authority in legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77947	This proposal is based on the law and we will decide on it because it does not meet the Parliament and when it does not meet and there is a need to make consistent decisions, solutions. Here is the proposal, please, and let us vote on the emergency proposal for this law. The urgency was accepted by most votes, 83 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against. ... I declared it 83 for and against Mr Grubisic as I recall. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, if that... but for what? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why didn't you push against it? [[Intruder Vinkovic: I would like to ask the service to check.]] Any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act, P.Z. No. 869, item 4? If not, please join in and vote on the emergency motion. Score. The urgency of the procedure was accepted by most votes, 77 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 2 against. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds P.Z. No. 871 under point 5 of the agenda proposal? If there isn't, please let's get involved and vote on the emergency proposal. The proposal was accepted by most votes, 86 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against. If any of the representatives or advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the reduction of pensions laid down, that is to say, by specific rules in pension insurance, P.Z. No. 872. Under point 6. Suggestion? If there is no please let's get involved and vote on the urgency of the procedure for this agenda item. The emergency proposal was accepted by most votes, 79 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. If any of the representatives or representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Pension Insurance Companies Act and the payment of pensions on the basis of individual capitalised savings, P.Z. No. 874. Under point 7 of the proposal? There isn't. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The new proposal was accepted by most votes, 77 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against. If any of the representatives or representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Pension Insurance Act, P.Z. No. Point 879.8. Suggestion? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the emergency proposal. The proposal was accepted unanimously by 82 votes. If any of the representatives or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law supplementing the Law on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act, P.Z. No. 880th point of the 9th proposal? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on urgency. This proposal was adopted unanimously with 81 votes. If any of the representatives or representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Gas Market Act, P.Z. No. Point 881 of the 10th proposal? If we don't get involved and vote on the emergency proposal. This proposal was adopted unanimously with 81 votes. Any of the MPs or representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, P.Z. No. Point 870 of the 12th proposal? If there isn't, please let's get involved and vote. The proposal was accepted by most votes, 79 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act supplementing the Law on Medical Insemination, P.Z. No. Point 873 of the 13th proposal? If there isn't, let's please get involved and vote on the proposal. The result? The proposal was accepted unanimously with 80 votes. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Montenegro on Police Cooperation, P.Z. No. Point 876 of the proposal? There isn't. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal. The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 81 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 against. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Storage and Storage of Cereals and Industrial Plants, P.Z.E. 877 point 16.? If there isn't, let's please get involved and vote on the proposal. This proposal was adopted unanimously with 79 votes. Any of the representatives or advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Implementing Act, P.Z. No. Point 878 of the 17th proposal? If we don't get involved and vote. The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 80 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the implementation of the Integrated Land Administration System, P.Z. No. Point 883 of the 21st proposal? If there isn't, please let's get involved and vote. Here you go. This proposal was accepted by most votes, 80 votes for, one abstention and nothing against. Any of the MPs or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the application of the statutes of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law, P.Z. No 884, point 22 of the proposal. If there isn't, please let's get involved and vote. The result? The proposal was accepted by most votes, 80 votes in favour, one abstention and one against. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda shall, in accordance with Article 203(4). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda. I suggest, if you agree, and until now it's always been so, that I don't read it completely, but let me announce that the agenda is as I suggested, which you received with a call for a session. And ladies and gentlemen, I will now propose on the basis of Article 204(2). Rules of Procedure supplementing the agenda of the 24th session with 11 new points, and so on – 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Medical Products, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 885. 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products, with a final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 886. 3. Proposal for a Law on the Quality of Health Care and Social Care, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 887. 4. Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the mutual protection of classified data, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 888. 5. Proposal for a law on the integrity of certain legal acts of the judicial bodies of the former JNA, the former SFRY and the Republic of Serbia, with a final draft of the law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 889. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Construction and Fraction of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, first reading, P.Z. No. 890. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 891. 8. Final proposal of the Law on the rental and purchase of business space, third reading, P.Z. No. 672. Nine. Final proposal of the Social Labour Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 752. Ten. Final proposal of the Law on Educational Rehabilitation, second reading, P.Z. No. 755. 11. Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and members of the Civil Control Council of the Security Intelligence Agency. Proposer: Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Products Act with the final draft law, P.Z.E. No 885, under point 1 of this proposal supplementing the agenda, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on medicinal products with the final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 886, point 2 of this proposal, and a proposal for a Health Safety and Social Care Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. They shall comply with EU rules and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this law. Please engage to check the quorum. Do we have the result? Let's get on with it. 81, we probably have more, not everyone. 98 is numbered. We have a quorum, we can decide. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the mutual protection of classified data, P.Z. No. 888, point 4 of this supplemental proposal? If not, please include and vote on the urgency of the procedure for this item of the agenda. The result? This proposal has been accepted. We have 82 for, 2 abstentions and nothing against. We're moving on. Any of the representatives or representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Vulnerability of Certain Legal Acts by the judicial authorities of the former JNA, the former SFRY and the Republic of Serbia, the P.Z. No. 889, point 5? If we don't get involved and vote on a motion for the urgency of this law. The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 83 for, 3 abstentions and nothing against. Any of the representatives or representatives have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, P.Z. No. 891, point 7 of this supplemental proposal? If there is no, please let's get involved and vote on urgency for this point. The result? This proposal was accepted by most votes, 88 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against. Any of the MPs or representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 24th session? Mr. Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77949	I have an objection to the inclusion of the law under regular number 6, which is the proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration for two reasons. First of all, it's nonsense. It is pointless for the government to refer at the end of the term of office to the Law on the Design and Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration in the first reading. When are we going to do another reading? And another reason why it is against this bill is that the Government is publicly disgraced and ridiculed. And I'm against it. Why? This law regulates the central authorities of the state administration who have taken over the affairs of legal persons with public authority of this law in part. It's taxing on what's part of their work. However, the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security is thus taking over the affairs of the former State Institute for radiation protection and the State Department for Nuclear Safety. However, this office was founded on 24 February 2010, a year and 7 months ago. For a year and seven months, he was required to write to the government a series of seven articles. It's a disgrace to the government, tossing out the government of mockery. If she hasn't been able to propose this bill in a year and seven months, then she'll leave these jobs to the new government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77950	Thank you. We have a proposal not to include it in the agenda of point 6, which is the point that says the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, P.Z. No. 890. Let's get involved and vote on the proposal not to put this item on the agenda. The proposal is not to be included, so who wants to be included he'll plus vote, and the others will vote as they wish. Please, we are voting on the amendment proposal actually by Mr. Stazic who says he proposes not to include that point in the agenda. Whoever's in favor of not being included will then vote for it because it's being voted against, not to be classified. Please, if we still have time not to waste, who is to not put this item on the agenda on Mr. Nenad Stazic's proposal to raise his hand. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Therefore, there were no other comments, and therefore they are part of the agenda which is thus established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77951	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to propose an addition to the agenda, so please let's get involved to determine the quorum. Gentlemen and ladies, please engage. Something's not working, Mr. counter, how much is on your record? 86. We have a quorum. So, like I said, I'm going to propose an addition to the agenda of 24. Sessions with 10 new points and one proposal for a declaration on some issues of cooperation between the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. 1. Proposal for a declaration on some issues of cooperation between the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia 1. A) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency (b) Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency 1. Proposal for a Decision appointing the Deputy Chief State Auditor, Proposer: State Audit Office 1. Proposal for a decision on temporary financing of transactions, functions and programmes of state authorities and other budgetary beneficiaries of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia in the first quarter of 2012. In 2012, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the provisional financial plans for the first quarter of 2012. Year: (a) Croatian Waters (a) Croatian Roads (a) State Deposit Insurance and Bank Recovery Agency (a) Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund (a) State Property Management Agency 1. Final draft law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 857. 1. Final proposal for criminal law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 866 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Blood and Blood Products, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 892 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 893 1. Proposal for a law on time-limits for compliance with monetary obligations, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 894 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the protection of the transport of money and other values, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 895 The proposal to supplement the agenda has been assigned to your benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I stress that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Blood and Blood Products with the final proposal for a law emergency procedure P.Z.E. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of this Act. Any of the representatives and advocates have objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development. There isn't. Who's for emergency procedures. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 87 votes for this law, it is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the deadlines for the fulfilment of monetary obligations? There isn't. Who's in? Against? With 87 votes unanimously and this law goes according to emergency procedure. Is there any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the protection of money transport and other values? There isn't. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Against? In agreement with 86 votes, the application of the emergency procedure was accepted. Is there any objection to the inclusion of remaining points in agenda 24. Sessions? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77952	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare has come forward for his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77953	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would like to express my regret that I was provoked by inappropriate reactions and the behaviour of the representatives and representatives of the SDP at the meeting of the Mandate-Immunity Commission and I acted inappropriately. I apologize to everyone I have hurt by my reaction, to those who feel hurt and to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77954	Thank you. I'm not going to comment except to say that it's good that sometimes in the heat of our discussions we say something and maybe later we apologize, it's human. And now, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77955	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I would like to say a few words about the circumstances in which we are operating today, which I believe there should be no circumstances in which this Assembly ends its sixth session. We in Croatia certainly think for ourselves with a lot of rights, often saying that we represent civilised and European society. In the Parliament in recent times, not only two days ago but also in recent weeks, the atmosphere has begun to accumulate in which we believe that we share them in society, and not only in Parliament, is seriously threatened. In such a competition of colleagues and colleagues I do not have to remind you specifically of boxing to speaking there are rules. And in boxing, you know what kind of punch is allowed. And in speech, especially in parliamentaryism according to our Constitution and Rules of Procedure, we know what kind of words, which kind of statement is allowed and which are not allowed. We are, I can say it, and I will put myself as a part of it even though I believe I haven't sent that kind of message, but I'm part of this home and people are looking at us whether we're real actors or not. For this reason, not to owe Mr. President and colleagues and colleagues to the SDSS Club, it is necessary that the President of the Assembly, in accordance with their powers, should convene as soon as possible an extended session of the Presidency to which club presidents would be invited to agree on how to end this session of the Assembly so that no one has any harm, that what it takes to vote, and at the same time what is most important is that we as Parliament and as parliamentarians do not give material for what we should not give material to anyone who does not hold too much to parliamentaryism anyway. If we still give material with our actions, there is no doubt that we are not preparing for the election in the way we should prepare. The Independent Democratic Serb Party club until the meeting is held and until the agreement is seen as a duty not to participate in the parliament's work. We will do everything to reach this agreement but we ask that the conditions for such an agreement be obtained and that an agreement be reached on what, how, and at what pace bring the session of the Parliament to an end, but in a way that will be different from that which we are now going to take. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77956	Thank you, Mr. Milorad Pupovac. I will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the powers, consult clubs and call on an extended session of the Presidency and with one goal and the desire that what Mr. Pupovac said really end this session by making appropriate decisions, appropriate laws, appropriate measures, and finally completing this session within the deadlines that can ensure the date of elections in the procedures for running and all that is expected, that elections can be held on 4 December of this year, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in line with what Mr Pupovac said, and I am convinced that this will also contribute to Mr Vladimir Seks's statement, we will continue the session of the Parliament on Wednesday at 9:30 p.m. with the agenda Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support, Agriculture and Rural Development. And all that will come after the session of the extended presidency. Thank you and a pleasant holiday. Please, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 24th session with 31 new points. 1. A) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Council for Higher Education (b) Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the National Council for Higher Education 1. A) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the National Science Council b)Reference for a decision to appoint a part of the National Science Council 1. Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency 1. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures 1. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the National Social Council Proposer: Minister of Health and Social Care 1. A) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the Advocate General for Gender Equality (b) Proposal for a decision to appoint a Advocate for Gender Equality 1. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions 1. Report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for a period of 1 January 2017 January 30th, 2011 Year 1. Final draft air protection law, second reading, p.z.e. No. 852 1. Final draft law on artistic education, second reading, p.z. No. 868 1. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the additional financing of the "Integration of Trade and Transport Project" at the port of Ploče, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 896 1. Proposal for a law on foreigners, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z.e. No. 897 1. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the "Project of Completion of Corridor Vc", with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 898 1. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 899 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic trade, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z.e. No. 900 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z.e. No. 901 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Areas and Seats of State Attorneys, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 902 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 903 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Courts, with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 904 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 905 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Regional Convention on Pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules of origin, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.r.s. No. 906 1. Proposal for a law confirming the financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the "Infrastructure Development Project on Islands and Coast", with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 907 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Control of the State Border, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, p.z.e. No. 908 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z.e. No. 909 1. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "Croatms and related projects" project for the "Croatms Upgrade of the Croatian Air Traffic Management System (Croatms), with the final draft of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 910 1. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of a financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the "Finance of Water-Communal Infrastructure", with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 912 1. Proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Land Infrastructure Loan Project (integral development of the local community), with the Final Bill Proposal, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 911 One. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on holidays, mentioned and unworkable days in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 914 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 913 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on cross-border police cooperation, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.r.s. No. 915 1. Report on the work of the National Council for Higher Education in 2010 G. I strategic document network of higher education and study programmes in the Republic of Croatia. Carrier: The National Council for Higher Education The proposal to supplement the agenda is divided into benches. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I would like to stress that the Proposal for a Law on Foreigners with the Final Bill of Law, P.Z.E. No. 887 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic trade, P.Z.E. No. 900, point 15, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z.E. No. 901, point 16 of the supplemental proposal, Proposal for a Law amending the State Border Control Act with the Final Proposal for the Law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 908, paragraph 23, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Weapons Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. They shall comply with EU rules and in accordance with Article 161 thereof. We do not vote on the rules of procedure for the adoption of these laws. Please engage to check the quorum and decision-making. The result? We have a quorum, 77 present. I ask if any of the MPs and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Guarantee Treaty Act between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the additional financing of the "Integration of Trade and Transport Project" in Luka Ploče, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 896, point 11.? If there is no one for the proposal, please be manually placed on the agenda by emergency procedure? Thank you. Does anyone mind? There isn't. This law has been entered into by an emergency procedure. Who is the representative or representative for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Guarantee Contract Act between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the "Project of Completion of Corridor VC", with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 898, paragraph 13.? If you don't please raise your hands and confirm the urgency of the procedure? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. Unanimity. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 899, paragraph 14.? If you don't please raise your hands and confirm the urgency of the procedure? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. It's 77 votes unanimous. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State Lawyers, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 902, paragraph 17. If there's no need to raise your hand in the emergency procedure of passing this law? Against? Restraint? There isn't. It's 77 votes unanimous. Any of the MPs or advocates have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Amendments and Supplements Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 903, item 18? If you do not have a hand-lift to confirm the urgency of the procedure, who is in favour of this bill? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. It's 77 votes unanimous. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending the Law on Courts, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 904, paragraph 19? If you don't have a hand raise, who's to apply the urgency of the procedure? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. 77 for. Any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 905, point 20 of the proposal? There isn't. Who is for this emergency procedure please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There's no 77 for it. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Regional Convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules of origin, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 906, point 21 of the proposal? If you don't have a hand-lifting, who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. 77 for unanimous. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the "Infrastructure Development Project on the Islands and the Coast", with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 907, under point 22? If there's no one to administer an emergency procedure, would you please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. No one. It means 77 for unanimous. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "CroatMS Upgrade Project for the Croatian Air Traffic Management System (CROATMS) and related projects", with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910, under point 25? If you don't please raise your hands, let's say we're in for an emergency procedure. Yeah. Against? Thank you. Restraint? There isn't. 77 for. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the "Financing of Water-Communal Infrastructure", with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912, under point 26 of the proposal? If you don't please raise your hands, let's say we're in for an emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. 77 for. Does any of the representatives or representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Land Infrastructure Loan project (integral development of the local community), with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911, under point 27? If you don't please raise your hands, let's say we're in for an emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. 77 for. Unanimity. Do any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Completion of the Law on holidays, memorials and non-working days in the Republic of Croatia, P.Z. No. 914, under point 28 of the proposal? If you don't please raise your hands, are we in favor of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? Nothing. No abstentions. 77 unanimously for. Any of the representatives and representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, P.Z. No. 913, under point 29? If there isn't, please state by raising your hands. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Restraint? There isn't. Unanimity, 77. Any of the representatives and representatives of the objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Italian Republic on cross-border police cooperation, P.Z. No. 915, motion under point 30? If not, please raise your hands. Who's in charge of the emergency procedure? Thank you. Against? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. It's 77 votes unanimous. Do any of the MPs and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the remaining points in the agenda of the 24th session? This is point 1 a and b, point 2, of the proposal, point 3, the 4th Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Governing Council, 5th, 1st to 10th and 31st of the proposal submitted here for the addition. If anyone has any objections, not to read all this again, you have it all written. You don't. If there are no objections to these points of complementarity at which there is no objection, the representatives of the amendment of the agenda shall be determined. Now we're going to a secret vote. First they will vote for the president of the commission, watch out for the first vote for the president of the commission. Please do not part after the vote because we must publish the results and we must vote in favour of the members. So let's not part ways. So, first the president and then the members. I'm setting a 20-minute recess, which means we meet here at 13:15 to announce the results and the second round of voting if the first round doesn't happen. It takes 77 votes for that proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77961	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. My question will be addressed to the Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, although it could be directed to each of us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament, as well as to our entire public. It's about the next one. We've celebrated this year, we're still celebrating 70 years of victory over fascism. Also 70 years of memorializing victims in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, especially victims of the Usta Pavelic Ustasha regime. I'm taking this opportunity to remind myself that 70 years ago, and I'm going to say the reason why I'm taking this opportunity, which is why I'm going to ask. 29 and 30.7 first, then 3.8.'41. years from the municipality of Topusco and from the area of Kotar... which today is called the '95 Iron. According to some estimates, just over a thousand and five hundred people, and by another, almost a thousand people of Serbian nationality, which forcedly, which was brought into the Glynn Church by the promise of the godfather's birth and killed there. [[You don't understand.]] After the war instead of the church was erected by mention, '95. It was renamed a Croatian home. For 16 years, almost no one has bothered that it is so, that the honorable name of the Croatian people is used to conceal and cover up the terrible victims of the Ustasha regime. Madam President, I call on you and all of us not only to answer me, but to make when local and county authorities do not have the strength to do so, to do so, to mention with such a practice of coughing those sacrifices and to defile the honorable Croatian name.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77962	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77963	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Representative, I agree with you that, of course, everything that must be a part of the memory must be marked above all by the Croatian people, but also by all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia is that, according to the Constitution, based on the anti-fascist struggle and certainly on the victory of the Homeland War. This year, you have listed some anniversarys, this year is certainly the year in which we celebrate and celebrate the 20th anniversary of an independent, free, democratic and European Croatia. This issue is in the jurisdiction of the local administration, or the city of Gline. I agree with you that despite the instructions that went as far as I know from the Ministry of Culture towards the city, that is to say, nothing has been done towards the county. And I agree with you because we have talked about this before, too, to try from this state level, so united and executive and legislative authority, to do everything to make this building decently marked, but also to make sure that all those who have something to say from the historical aspect get an opportunity right in Glina, right in Glina, which has suffered badly during the Homeland War and Greater Serbian aggression. So I suggest we set up another meeting. I am willing to invite the representatives of the city and representatives of the county to a joint meeting here and with you to see what is best said, which is a possible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77964	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77965	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to point out here that our respect for the victims we've given here for a minute of silence is not questionable. And we also pray that we treat the victims of World War II with the same kind of pie, and that is why we accept your invitation to meet at that meeting and get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77966	Thank you. He will ask Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77967	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor, the other day you said that we were threatening that all those with HDZ cards would be out of a job. That's just not true. Someone has obviously deceived you and who would have thought you'd be so easily deceived. But the Customs Union did not deceive you when it systematically informed you of all illegalities in Customs at the time your treasurer Barisic was sitting there. I tried to warn you well-intentioned and I asked you at the beginning of the year at the current morning when you were going to replace this Barisic? You fell for me then and defended Barisic even though you knew about the union's warnings, and you knew about everything else about Barisic because your predecessor Sanader informed you about it in detail. Do you think Barisic should be removed from their functions despite being members of the HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77968	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77969	Thank you very much. Since MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic did not address me as Prime Minister but as Mrs Kosor, then I allow myself the right to answer her as Mrs Kosor. So, Mrs. Antičević-Marinović, your member, the distinguished member of your party Slavko Linic, announced in his interview the dismissal of 80%, but your president and other members of your party also confirmed that all those who are not only members of HDZ but who are simply not for you and are not for your methods that will not be fired but who will be expelled from all positions. However, your esteemed colleague in the interview announces coming to power with a razor in his hand. We haven't had that in history yet, and in the history of democracy to see that some party member, so it was also a party, announces coming to power and dealing with non-insanes with razors in hand. Ladies and gentlemen, time has passed. We shave neither axe nor lynch or close as announced in this interview, but we are not afraid of direct courts because Croatia's democratic and European state, the one that ended the negotiations, successfully closed Chapter 23 and above all to the success of this government in fighting corruption and the fight against crime. And we won't stop until all thieves come to justice. And you will not succeed in your intention that the thieves of SDP or HNS or any other party of your coalition, the "Kukuriku coalition" do not stand in the face of justice because they will not pass the one announced by Slavko Linic about being careful, that you will take good care of what Bajic does, as he says, what the courts do, and you will therefore assess who will remain in the DORH and who will not. It won't work out for you because the times of Communism have passed long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77970	Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77971	Mrs. Kosor, I will grant your last wish, Prime Minister Kosor. The last defense of the corrupt is to spread the the thesis that we're all the same. [[No, it's not my wish, it's reality.]] But what happened to Croatia during the reign is not only your huge incompetence but what she had and never in history had a more lying authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77972	The question will be asked by Commissioner Dubravka Shuica. I beg you a moment if we can soften this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77973	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, I would like to refer the question to Minister Mlakar. A year ago, I asked you a question about illegal actions and negligence of the City Administration in Dubrovnik, which is ruled by SDP, HNS, HSLS and HSU. The entire public is familiar with the "Sipan affair" which resulted in USKOK-based indictments against the HNS leader of Dubrovnik Andro Vlahusic and his coalition partner for abuse of positions and powers, but it is a matter of justice. It is symptomatic, however, that the former president of the SDP youth also earned a criminal application, but also the indictment for abuse of office and authority. The leaders of the Dubrovnik SDP and the HNS appear to be united in working on their own well-being. The same was the case in the previous pre-election campaign, and today, by false criminal charges specifically ordered by articles and other methods, they deceived the Dubrovnik and wider Croatian public. The only result of their unhappiness is the fact that Dubrovnik is often represented on the black chronicle pages. And it was the gentlemen of SDP and HNS that made the great critics of the government, and the government that only looked at the Dubrovnik area more than any boredom, from the construction of the HE "Plat", completion of the first and second phases of Luke Dubrovnik, to the construction of Dubrovnik Airport, construction of swimming pools, archives and harbors on Korucula, University of Dubrovnik, etc., not to mention the terminal in Luka Ploče and the construction of the neretva dam. The Prime Minister also announced yesterday the start of a reconstruction of Kupar, a former military resort, which is particularly welcomed by residents of Zupa Dubrovakia and Dubrovnik. Here, reading Program 21, I don't see any mention of Dubrovnik-Neretva County or our islands. The SDP and HNS often state that the construction of the Peljega Bridge is not necessary and that the construction of the highway to Dubrovnik is expensive and unnecessary. But let's go back to Dubrovnik and the neglect of city authorities. Ministers Mlakar, a year ago you conducted administrative oversight of the work of the city administration in Dubrovnik, identified a number of irregularities you took, if the sanctions for not performing the inspection find of the Ministry of Administration and how to end the self-will of local leaders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77974	Thank you. Please don't wait for the red light to work all the time on this issue, but when it starts to work, we'll finish. Please, I'm not just saying this to Mrs. Shuci, but to anyone who will answer. Mr. Secretary Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77975	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. It is true that you asked about the situation in Dubrovnik a year ago, it is also true that we have already said that we have a number of complaints from the citizens of Dubrovnik on the work of especially the executive authority in Dubrovnik, and it is precisely the following that we carried out administrative and inspection surveillance in November of last year, established a number of illegalities in the work of the executive authority, noting that it is primarily the executive authority and that we have given both the findings and the opinion of the administrative inspection in the administrative supervision and inspection of what needs to be done to change this situation. In particular, the serious injuries involved, which are within the responsibility of the Ministry of Administration, have been warned by the executive authority in Dubrovnik that it has a 60-day deadline in which it must change its internal structure and bring legal solutions to the deployment of people to jobs together with the wage calculation coefficients, etc., that I am now not burdening the entire set with the details. One part of the remarks made by the administrative oversight was adopted and the bodies of the general administration carried out what was indicated while the mayor was without any indication of any inspection de facto one part of our observations had not adopted or acted on them, nor was it obvious that it had been ordered to carry out inspection because of this and what was the jurisdiction of the administrative inspection, the administrative inspection had filed a misapplication against the mayor of the city of Dubrovnik, the findings and reports of the findings were found in the criminal court in Dubrovnik and are located in the municipality’s State Attorney’s office of the city of Dubrovnik. In addition to the findings concerning the Ministry of Administration's portfolio, we have also warned other ministries that there are certain irregularities that are not within our jurisdiction but should be investigated by the competent authorities, it is also about the availability of properties which are partly within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and the management of the funds of the city budget to be implemented in budgetary supervision and to determine how these funds were available. These are the instruments you asked what can be done with the finding of an administrative inspection and these measures have been taken, we cannot answer the questions how quickly the municipal attorney's office or the criminal court will be resolved by our application but the applications there have been since the spring of this year. So that's part of the job done by the Department of Administration, and I believe that other bodies will be manifested about our misappropriations against the Dubrovnik Authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77976	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77977	Mr. Minister, I thank you for your response, and I am pleased that the ministry is monitoring what is being done, however, as city council in the City Council of Dubrovnik, I have information that the administration's offices are being ignored and that such situations are being repeated, so as you yourself have said, disrespecting the findings of the Ministry of Management and I believe that there is yet to be another control or a little greater control over the work of the city administration managed by HNS and SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77978	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77979	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is for the prime minister. You probably agree with me that INA is a company of vital interest in the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, so I ask you whether it is true that the HDZ Presidency and HDZ's Government have, without justifiable reasons, unanimously made a decision on the transfer of management rights to the INE company MOL. And do you finally agree with me that whoever harms the vital, strategic interests of the country and for the benefit of a foreign country is an act of high treason?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77980	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77981	Mr. President, I believe you will respond to these last words by Željko Jovanovic. As far as your question is concerned, I agree with you, Zeljko Jovanovic, and I do not agree with anything, because your rhetoric and your performance in political life are a tolerance of crime in your ranks, and the apparition of others alone, and of course very often in an unwarranted way for me is unbearable. So, answer to your question, I will, of course, mention this latest information about how it operates, for example, the city of Rijeka where you've seen a more visible person, so we warned that the state audit had warned and found that 149 million kuna budgets in the city of Rijeka that the government of the SDP spent unintendedly over the past years. But last year, the audit report shows 34 million again in vain, so it's illegal. But Mr. Jovanovic, of course, does not have an answer or thinks it is important because when the SDP is doing so, it is, of course, absolutely acceptable, as it is acceptable for Agent Jovanovic to, for example, wait from the third month of last year for the results of an investigation into the Rijeka markets where there is really a reasonable suspicion of crime. As far as INA is concerned, of course, that the government I run has done everything to pay back the debt first, so almost 2 billion kuna thanks to my government's efforts to pay back, i.e. to the state budget, and in this way we have settled very important issues both of the Croatian roads and Croatian highways. As far as investigations are concerned, I will not, of course, be at the helm of the executive authority, but I must be very careful, unlike you what I am saying, because the investigations are still being conducted, because the proceedings are ongoing, but be sure that I am personally and all of my colleagues in the HDZ very much helped to shed light on some facts, and I am sure that the truth will quickly come out. But we will also have many times to explain to the public both Croatian citizens and citizens who sold the INA for 25% plus 1 INA stock for 505 we say it with a line, so for 505 million dollars, so below the price and in what way. And I'm more than sure, and I'm going to personally commit to that, as I recently said, that all the facts light up and finally find out why you sold INA and why, among other things, you financed the deficit at a time when there wasn't a crisis at a time when GDP grew by 5.4%, and you sold out everything that was sold out. And for that too one day, I'm sure you'll have to answer to the competent institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77982	Mr. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, after which I will comment, you will allow me one minute, half a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77983	Of course, I'm not happy with the answer, because instead of the answer, we've got a commentary again about what I should be doing in Rijeka, so the State's Attorney's job, obviously that's how it's done in HDZ. Mrs. Kosor against your predecessor who has appointed you president of the party and the prime minister has been charged because, as your predecessors on both functions, he has received 10m euros in bribes to hand over to INA. But he didn't make that decision alone. You and the entire HDZ presidency and the entire government voted for it. Wasn't he at the top of the pyramid that made that decision that sold the interests of its own country,...the other country. Then why are you all together? Dear colleagues and colleagues, is that how Croatia is kept?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77984	Since this is a question and an answer deserves the intervention of the President's desk, let me say something about it. Is the provisions of the Croatian Constitution, the principles of the Croatian Constitution, the norms of the Croatian Constitution just a decoration of democracy or are they really norms and really principles of the Croatian Constitution? If the principles and norms of the Croatian Constitution are, then there is not a single judge who has already found out who is guilty, how many millions were won or not won, etc., that is number one. Secondly, the question of the qualification of high treason, you also agree if we are a democratic country deserves or is conditioned by proof of procedure and the power of appropriate judgments and solutions. Don't take over, for the hundredth time here I say the role of investigators, the state's attorney and judge yet to declare what no judge makes at least in this first procedure as if it were already legally enforceable. Let's not deal with it. We are entering a space that is not in accordance with the Constitution. All these claims based on writing, based on the advertisements, based on this or that, are not in line with the laws and the Croatian Constitution. And that is why I am asking on this issue to avoid what I was talking about and to conclude this session of the Parliament and this current morning in accordance with the law and the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure that we are obliged to abide by. I apologize, but I do not think any provision of the Croatian Constitution is a democratic decoration because the presummation of innocence exists in the Croatian Constitution both as a principle and as a norm. Thank you very much. Let's move on. The question will be asked by Mr. Agent Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77985	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to refer the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, which is why the Government insists on the legal ban on the exploitation of gravel and sand from the Croatian rivers, when therefore imports of sand and gravel from neighbouring countries have been exploited by hundreds of people, and exactly from the neighbouring country of the same rivers, and EU members are exploiting gravel and sand?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77986	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77987	Well, Your Honor, we have, of course, proposed laws that we thought could help the recovery of the Croatian economy. If you have any concrete comments, suggestions, of course, this information that you have just presented in your question, I ask you to deliver it to me if possible now, so with concrete examples and I am also prepared to organise a meeting with whoever you want, of course, in order to consider and then to amend some provisions in the law. Here, I'm asking you if you have the information to deliver to me now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77988	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77989	First of all, thank you very much for the good will to resolve this problem. It is extremely large for Croatia because it is not only about the fate of hundreds of jobs, but also about not maintaining waterways. And the fact is that today we are in such a situation that even when the state pays for the maintenance of the waterway, the sand is being removed, driven on ships to the Danube, extruded into the Danube, and then bought in Serbia at a much higher price. Of course, there is also a danger of floods in Metkovic and the vicinity of Zagreb due to the application of gravel and sand. I have made one legislative proposal to amend the Water Act that would resolve it, but I appeal once again that this problem should be resolved as soon as possible so as not to have major consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77990	Thank you. Let's move on with the questions. She will ask the question of Madam Representative Nada Cavlovic Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77991	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. After the presentation of Program 21. Kukuriku coalition, you started scaring people again and saying that when we came to power, we would cut pensions. Of course that's not true. But you'd have to talk to the pensioners, which is why, during your government, their pensions fell from an average salary of 48% to 49%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77992	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77993	Thank you very much, Madam Representative. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I will certainly answer very precisely and clearly. I think that you, too, would have to answer on behalf of your Social Democratic Party, for example. Because it's pre-election time for citizens to use this assembly for their own promotion. Of course, despite your party chief's announcement that you won't be running a dirty campaign, I think today's current morning is real proof of what kind of campaign you're running. So you'd have to explain to the citizens, especially the pensioners, why you said the debt was gone and you wouldn't pay back. And so despite the Constitutional Court's decision back in 1998, we certainly respected the court's decision, we started paying back the pensioners' debt, and here's for your information, 8 billion and 500 million kuna, so far we've paid back. This year in October we will pay off a new war of 820 million kuna, next year we will also pay off a new war of 820 million kuna and in 2013 we will pay an additional 118 million kuna and will end this big and important job. Debt to the pensioners, the debt to those who are truly especially responsible for many of what we have today, therefore our concern about the pensioners is real and clear. Of course, by fighting difficulties and fighting different challenges at a time of crisis, we also had to make decisions about freezing, or decision and freezing budgets as you know, or budget expenditure, which you certainly did not want to vote for again. We have also brought some changes, very nearly amendments to some laws that will allow for the payment of the amount of 120 million kuna for one part of the pensioners more than 800 thousand since it is a profit in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. Therefore, that amount will also be shared with Croatian pensioners. However, you can also see when you talk about pensions, whether at this very time the campaign you are running here and in the assembly explain, for example, to Croatian wartime first group disabled persons, 100% of the first group with your government's rights reduced by 60% in 2001. These are people who can't move without someone else's help, but don't drink a glass of water or eat a meal. That's what you would do and it's about pensioners, they're also receiving pensions as Croatian military disabled first group, I repeat, 100% that you've reduced your rights by 60%, and now it's time for you to answer those questions, Madam MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77994	Thank you. Ms. Representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77995	Thank you very much. I'm not happy with your answer, and while you're talking about the SDP having created debts and the pensioners, I have to say that's not true, that you and your HDZ government have created debts and it's obliged to retire, not what you said. And I'm going to say one more thing, the fact is that pensions fell primarily because of non-compliance with the growth of the average wage, but even more because of the poor situation in the economy for which you are primarily responsible. The consequences of your inaction are paid by the citizens, and most of all by the pensioners. These 150 kunas you've now given to the pensioners are not your charity, but their right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77996	He's going to ask Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77997	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam President of the Croatian Government, distinguished members and members of the government. I'm going to ask the Minister of Interior Mr Tomislav Karamark. The latest amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia have abolished obsolete illegal actions from the privatisation period, which the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia accepted with approval. Perhaps there is a convenient opportunity here to check whether these constitutional changes and live and function in Croatia's life. Here's a good example just to check these constitutional changes. Several months ago, a book by Krešimir Kovač was published entitled "The Rise of Radiir Cacic in the '90s". It details all the illegal actions of Mr. Cacic in the privatisation of the company Koning, and the illegal proceedings are obvious and verifiable. And as it started, it started with an estimate of a company that showed an incomparably lower price than a real one and did not enter the company’s claims at the time. After privatisation, Mr. Cacic founded four subsidiaries in 1992 and later no less than a dozen related companies. The goal is clear, the establishment of these companies is to transfer business losses and cloud business, of course, which according to these allegations is illegal. The overindebted company Koning fired employees, left debts everywhere and damaged the Republic of Croatia for hundreds of millions of kunas. According to a series of details in the book, intentional illegal acquisition of personal benefit can be assumed. Well, the book clearly shows that even Mr. Cacic caused a 324 million kuna bankruptcy, including never paid back to a country of 51 million kuna. Mr. Secretary, do you know if an investigation has been initiated based on these publicly published data?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77998	Thank you. Mr. Minister Tomislav Karamarko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u77999	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, Mr. Honorable Representative, that both the Police and the State's Attorney's Office take into account all publicly available information that points to suspicion that he may have committed some crime, and in this case of course there will be no exceptions. I have to say that the police have informed the State's Attorney's office about the contents of this book, and we can say that the investigations have been initiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78000	Mr. Hushka, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78001	I thank you for your response, I am pleased and I hope that on the next current morning, we will have a concrete answer from you as Minister of Police which was actually made in this procedure. And I recommend that all Croatian citizens read this book before the elections so they know who they're voting for if they question whether to vote for the CNS, whether to vote for this diocese member of the Kukuriku coalition so that after the election, this book will not become a possible victory for the Kukuriku coalition guide for successful entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78002	... /The noise in the hall. Please, let's stay at the question level. We're not like I said, no investigation, no court, no etc. So let us leave it to them. Now they're going to ask Mrs. Representative Sunny Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78003	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mrs. President, members and members of the government. I'm going to ask the Prime Ministers to Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. European politicians, for example Mrs Reading, Mr Barroso, Chancellor Merkel and others have been repeating almost the same finding over the last two years – irregularities no longer reside in HDZ. Prime Minister Kosor has created a precondition and political climate for a consistent fight against crime and corruption. No one's politically protected anymore. That's what everyone needs to keep in mind. The voters can be sure that the government led by Jadranka Kosor will not be subject to corruption or tolerate such phenomena. Madam President, these are known facts. However, what I am interested in is how, for example, it was for all of these prominent European politicians to answer questions, such as how most of these laws were not voted by the opposition in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78004	Thank you. Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78005	Madam MPs, since, of course, in the past two years, I have been having countless conversations with almost everything, I can now say with all European Commission officials, or with the prime ministers of the European Union countries, of course I have performed everywhere and always as a Croatian prime minister representing the interest of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and then of course all parties in the Republic of Croatia. Because of course it is something that is democratic, which is only recognized in the democratic world. I must tell you that I have never mentioned the fact that opposition parties, especially the SDP, do not want to vote for laws that are European, and especially for the laws that measured for opening or closing chapters because it was simply embarrassing to me and I would not, of course, vote on my country and all here and the parties all the best when I'm abroad, because I think it would be difficult to understand that a party who wants to be European like this here is a SDP, for example, or the HNS does not want to vote for the Law on the Prevention of Interest. And, however, to obstruct the implementation of this law if we know that this law is a criterion for closing Chapter 23. But that is even less important, than it is important that, of course, the European Commission continues to follow us Member States in implementing what we have done on paper to close chapters and to end negotiations and follow how we are doing it in life. So very soon we'll see, because this Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest should finally be established, formed and it should begin to work. And I don't see any reason besides that some politicians aren't interested in having all the property they have, everything they have on their accounts anywhere, or abroad. We hear that there are various accounts both abroad and there were, to come as I say in the sun, and to see who has what and whether it is every politician who will act in the future in the Croatian show truly all and ships. We see that here, we have heard and recently that Mr. Cacic, to whom the trial in Hungary began, for example, did not say there was a boat, and in the event of an accident, here is what I really regret that he caused with all the road accidents and one maritime accident and that he did not report the people who were on board, and he had to. So that's what this is all about. That's what we want. This is what the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest wants. Everything you have, everything we have, everything I have, let's show it. If this commission wants to talk about any of us in the future, let them discuss it. Let's really check all our accounts and all our assets. It's European behavior. I wasn't even talking about the fact that there was an opposition party who didn't want to support the arbitration agreement. Not all, however, that the SDP was fiercely opposed to resolving the issue that meant the deblockation of Croatian negotiations. So, ma'am, counsel is final. I have never spoken about it abroad, but that is why I have the right to speak out loud in Croatia. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78006	Thank you. Mrs. Sunny Head, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78007	Thank you very much, Madam President, but some in Croatia have spoken ill of our country but it is something else. Some will obviously have a chance at the Croatian Assembly for corrections, so we will see if they truly show that they have the strength and desire that HDZ has to fight corruption and crime properly. However, what is a fact and I want to point out once again is not all the same when it comes to fighting corruption and crime. HDZ voted for those laws, and SDP did not. And that's a fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78008	The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78009	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. I'm asking the Minister of Interior Mr. Karamark. Mr Minister, I am asking the question primarily because of the interest of the Croatian public, but also because of the interest of the European public, because tomorrow we will become a member of the European Union. This is how we protect Croatian law and justice today, tomorrow we protect the common law of the European Union. Namely, these days in media reports on Mr. Cacic's case, about the Hungarian court case, unfortunately with the consequence of the death of two unfortunate people, Mr. Cacic gave a statement to the Hungarian court, saying he had received less than 1000 euros because he obviously knew he didn't have to report any profits from his own companies. In his statement to the Hungarian court, Mr. Cacic said he owned 3 properties, 1 small car, and we learn from the media that Mr. Cacic owns about 60m euros. We also learn that Mr. Cacic managed to break his yacht recently in a Croatian bay by jeopardizing and maritime safety, which also shows that he did not report his yacht. So I ask you, Mr. Minister, for the sake of the interest of the Croatian public and for the trust of our citizens in the judiciary, to answer me whether it is possible, on the basis of such a public clear false statement, to initiate criminal proceedings against Mr. Cacic, which protects not only the interests of Croatia, but also the European judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78010	Minister Karamarko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78011	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. So we must say that in a particular case, it is not a criminal responsibility because this criminal act of giving false testimony in court can be answered by, say, witnesses, witches, translators, etc. Mr. Cacic has the status of the defendant and in that case it does not apply to him. However, I am of the opinion, and I think we agree that it is primarily a moral issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78012	Mr. Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78013	Mr. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, it is embarrassing that in this country, someone who is running for, out of opposition for the deputy prime minister, hides behind his post, Mr. Cacic has publicly proved that he is capable of bringing Croatia into bankruptcy and his county. The Croatian public must know what such politicians are hiding behind, and we must stand in protection before everything and law, but also morals, because it is moral if someone is responsible, if someone is lying to their court, if someone is lying to the international court, to punish it, that such a person has nothing to do with lists and has nothing to do with the Croatian Parliament. It is the interest of the Croatian people, the Croatian state here today, and tomorrow in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78014	Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil will ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78015	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. In 2000, the Croatian Parliament adopted almost unanimously amendments to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, and later the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, in line with the Constitution, Article 15(3), which I specifically quote: "The law can, in addition to the general voting law, provide members of national minorities with a special right to choose their representatives in the Croatian Parliament." This finally creates an electoral model of positive discrimination where national minorities, by consuming a special right, do not lose general voting rights. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia opposes the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution, which explicitly stipulates that the Law on the Selection of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament may be amended no later than one year before the parliamentary elections are held, 4 months before the elections, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Election Law is amended. In this way, it discriminates against the voters of national minorities, but also the Parliament, because it assumes the powers of the Parliament. I ask the Honorable President how will the parliamentary elections be voted by members of the national minorities? Will he propose to return the law to emergency procedures, or will we all allow the Constitutional Court to become a legislator and be above the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, not to protect constitutionality and legality, which is its fundamental role?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78016	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78017	Thank you very much, ma'am. You're asking me a difficult question, given, of course, the constitutional provisions on the powers of the Constitutional Court. I agree with you in the finding that we in the ruling coalition, which you belong to, do not change the rules for elections one year before the election. You know well that we were prepared and a law that would respect the decision on the other hand, or a recommendation better said by the Constitutional Court, for example. on election units, however, because of the huge shouting in the public, especially from the opposition ranks, we gave up, although by passing this law we would respect the recommendation of the Constitutional Court. So as far as the Constitutional Court's decision is concerned, my position as head of the Executive Court is such that I should not even comment on the Constitutional Court's decision, but simply say that we will have to respect the Constitutional Court's decision. However, since according to the constitutional court of law, the rights of minorities achieved will not be violated as interpreted in the reasoning, and this decision also guarantees and ensures the representation of members of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament. We will, in all likelihood, have to apply the current practice, or current law. But I recommend that you direct this kind of debate and these proposals, I think that there is still time for the relevant Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, and that here is a very specific question of yours, i.e. a few issues that are contained in what you have asked as a question to me, or to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78018	Thank you. Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78019	Thank you very much, Your Honor. However, neither minority representatives nor minorities can be satisfied that the Constitutional Court says it will not violate minority rights. If someone is granted general electoral rights, then his right is certainly violated, and the Parliament's attempt to correct it has indeed been in accordance with the Constitution and does not give even the Constitutional Court the right to change it. Therefore, I think that you and the board are in a position to put it back in the House, and to bring our laws into line with the normal constitution, as we did in the first part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78020	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr. Agent Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78021	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow representatives, the honourable representatives of the government, the esteemed Prime Minister, I would like to address the question to you. When the Kukurik coalition presented its programme, so plan 21, you said you didn't read it, but it was prescribed. So that's a fact. And now it seems to us that someone misinformed you. The backdrop of our programme is all those measures and all those solutions that HDZ has been refusing to accept in the government and here in the Parliament for years. So, we proposed anti-insolvency measures you refused, so we proposed the tax disbursement of workers' salaries and you refused, so we proposed a restriction on bank interest and it was rejected, so we proposed abolishing parafiscal burdens, we proposed investment in economic development, we proposed higher benefits for unemployed, free study, and finally a sharp penalty for non-payment of salaries. You threw it all away in the government and here in the Parliament. So the question, then, how is it possible that someone has a program prescribed by HDZ when this program its backbone makes all of these measures that you have in turn rejected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78022	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78023	Well, of course, Mr. Representative, you didn't hear correctly, or you didn't understand what I said after the Kukurik coalition presented its program, so I'm asking you to go to the web site and look at exactly what I said. But what you're asking, of course, is why we're not this or that. Everything you've listed, we have. So we've also taken action in the fight against indifference, you're talking about parafiscal intrusions, so it's tragic, Mr. MP, that as an agent, you don't know that the first government in Croatia's history has reduced parafiscal burdens to 25%. It's really scandalous that you don't know that. But I'm willing to show you documents that clearly state exactly what they are and how many percentages they are reduced by and what that and how it contributes to the recovery of the economy and thus helps the economies. You mention studying, so you don't know, Mr. Representative, that we have made it very clear and we are doing it, so all those who study regularly, who are good students, of course, have free education, or free study. And as for the fight against liquidity, you'd have to know that one of the first measures, one of the first moves of this government that I'm leading, was to regulate public companies. So at the end of 2009, HEP owed a billion and 800 million kuna, Mr. MP, you'd have to know that, with a request to collect electricity by up to 30%, you'd have to know that. And as you know, HEP today doesn't owe June or kuna and electricity as you know it hasn't collected in two years or less. And that's support to the economy. Imagine that the current has accumulated 30% to reflect this on the economy. So, as for your proposals in the Parliament, here's a very short one. So, of course, we couldn't accept them because when we only recalculated, they asked for an extra to 30 billion kuna from the state budget. So, it's absolutely declassified because we've set ourselves up to cut costs, we've spent it, we've made a decision, and the ruling majority has voted to freeze expenditure, you've been against Mr. MP, which means you've asked for expenditures to rise. We have proposed the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, the ruling coalition has brought it, you have been against it because you do not want fiscal responsibility, Mr. MP, because then it would mean that your mayor in Rijeka who spent 149 million unlawfully and 34 million against the law that he would have to answer and that he would, of course, have to resign because that's what the Fiscal Responsibility Act says. And that's the answer to you, Mr. Representative, read it, get on it, and you need to know something, and I recommend you read the HDZ program will be made more and more clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78024	Thank you. Mr. Mondekar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78025	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor, there would be money for all the measures if they hadn't been brutally stolen in the last eight years. And the best picture of your program, I'll be happy to read it, but you're really very late, and the best picture of eight years of HDZ's government is the decline in GDP, so the rise in unemployment, so the growth in indifference, so the growth in debt, so the fall in standards, and again I'm going to repeat one huge general theft of state money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78026	The question will be asked by Mr. Damir Cain, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78027	Although Mr. President would suggest that this current clock be terminated because this began to look like court behavior, but it doesn't matter. But it can be interrupted on me, but it's time to start over. In 2002, I was against selling those 25% plus 1 shares of INA. Then in 2007, 2008, in 2009, I was again against the continuation of the privatisation of INA. I was saying why sell a state brand, why sell one company that brought the war, okay, it created oil to Republika Srpska, Mladic and some tycoons, but let's let it go now. I'll also vote for this law you're proposing, to keep the INA in the national, let's put it that way, even though I don't believe those acrobatics. I won't ask why you gave in to those 7% shares of the defence fund that were known to reach the hands of MOL, but I'll ask why Croatia's insurance is being sold today. And why are we doing what we used to do with INA? The funds own 19.74% of Croatia's insurance, we give them 29%. That's 48.74%. I'm afraid that Croatia's insurance is being set up, and I'll write to you later on a copy of a coma, one of the tycoon, a monopoly company in Croatia that's going to take over this Croat security package of pension funds that's private property by election. So, instead of protecting after INA, Croatia's insurance which is almost 130 years old almost that long historical tradition that has developed I don't know before the first Yugoslavia and between and after the second Yugoslavia etc. Can anyone guarantee that Croatia's insurance will not be the subject of the takeover tomorrow? Because I don't think there's any greater strategic interest than saving what's in the right sense of that word national silver because we've ruined a lot of things here and there over the past 20 years that they've created before.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78028	It's been a while asking questions. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78029	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, first of all, I would like to say, even if it is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, to express my satisfaction as to what was worth waiting for and it was worth being persistent and working to wait for you to say that some of whom my government will propose would accept. It's really... It was really worth the effort, the effort, everything was worth the wait. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much, that's really big.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78030	It's allowed to boast.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78031	It's a really big confession and here's what I'm saying. I just need to be persistent and work and the results are coming and even the worst enemy has to admit that it's about good. But about what you're asking. So, I'm glad you mentioned that you were against the sale of INA in 2003 when 25 plus 1 shares of INA were sold and, in fact, when you decided on the fate of INA for small money, I repeat, 505 million dollars to finance the deficit. At the time, I recall, GDP growth was 5.4, but the deficit was the same, so of course the question was how was it possible because there was no global economic crisis and financial crisis. As far as these shares of Croatia are concerned, the insurance you're asking about, so we didn't sell them as you know, we transferred them. That's one fact. Secondly, the state remains largely owned, so 51% and that's another fact. And the third important fact is that we transferred those shares to find, of course, a way to repay the debt of this war this year of 820 million kuna. I am sure, Mr. Representative, since Mr. Hrelja is with you in the Kukuriku Coalition, here is the pensioner at the head of that retirement party, so that he would very badly look at you to say that the debt does not return, even if of course he publicly says something else. And as for 7% of INA shares in the defence fund, I have to tell you an important fact, which is, which you do not know clearly, which is that the decision to sell those 7% of the INA shares was made by the Management Board of the Fund in which the Croatian defense attorneys are concerned and that he made that decision on the board's proposal, because the fund had to have the funds to pay off the share of Croatian defenders who would want it, but if you were so directed, you should know that I did not vote for that decision at the time. And I am the only member of the board of directors that decision of the Board of Directors of the Croatian Defence Fund on the sale of shares I did not support, and you should know that when you are doing research, and when you are in the role of your colleagues from the Kukurik coalition in the role of investigators and executioners, you should know that. But I don't know why you're not asking now in this question of yours what you think about the sale of HEP, which is announced by the distinguished representative Linic also in his programming interview in which frankly, and here I really have to thank him, he honestly says what he's going to do to the corn, or what he won't do to get into power, it's a sale of national wealth. And that's in this program that I also suggest you read, that there is no sale of national wealth. No forest, no water, no HEP, no anything that means energy security in the future. And I really thank you for your praise.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78032	Thank you. Mr. Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78033	First all that, the enemy no, the opponent yes, finally we'll all have to look into each other's eyes in one way or the other because we'll probably keep walking in this country. It doesn't matter what fate it will be, but that's where we'll just move and meet. It is clear that the debt should be paid back to pensioners, not from Croatia insurance, not by selling HEP, not by selling JANAF etc., why not ensure the working takeover of Croatia because it is one of the most valuable, I am talking about Croatia ensuring companies owned by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia as a whole, with said 130-year tradition, in Istria works somewhere around 200 people, in Rijeka 200 people, in Croatia for thousands of people working positively. It is not the INA that had two years ago, one, two billion kunas of loss clearly that I do not think that the Hungarians should have saved us more than the fact itself, I think something will happen here that those who have everything in this Croatia, which 90. They had nothing to do with this in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78034	The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78035	I thank Mr. President, I ask my question to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Bosnjakovic. Mr. Minister, the representatives of the pensioners asked me to ask you a question regarding a procedure they launched against Radiir Cacic, which is not complete. In fact, Cacic and his company Coning received the total amount to build a retirement home in Dubrovnik of 20 million German marks in the early 1990s. Jobs in the height of 1/5 of these jobs have been done, works of 4 million German marks and wonders the rest of the money for unfinished work in the amount of 16 million German marks has never been returned by justifying war events. Unfortunately, the same scenario occurred in Zadar at the construction of a secondary school centre in 1991. By justifying ourselves by doing business again. The question arises, given that the procedure is not completed due to limitations, whether after the adoption of the amendments to the Constitution will restart this procedure because it is obvious that it is profiting at the time of the war, whether it will continue, or whether it is necessary to initiate a criminal procedure to re-establish it by a pensioner's association, or perhaps after this question today, the state's attorney may act only by force of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78036	Thank you. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78037	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. It is true that the Croatian Parliament has adopted amendments to the Constitution, on the basis of amendments to the Constitution we have passed a concrete law on the non-depreciation of war profits and crimes related to the conversion and privatisation. In this law, we have taxfully counted the crimes that are legally met with the conditions of war profiting, those crimes include, in any case, unwitting business, the abuse of power in the economy, and fraud, but provided that someone has exploited the war situation and committed a criminal offence in this war situation and has come to an unaccounted for significant property benefit. So, the answer to your particular question, we removed those conditions that obsolescence can prevent the processing of such crimes, and therefore the legal possibility is that such crimes, which have been reported that the State's Attorney General is acting on these charges. I deeply believe that those who have used war and acquired wartime benefits of this kind have no reason for a peaceful dream, because the Croatian state, our judiciary, will certainly process these cases and I believe sanction, I can't speak of concretely, of course we have provisions of the law on criminal proceedings where I can't speak of names and last names, although when we look at the media today, we see that very often the information appears in the media but I deeply believe that the state's attorney in cooperation with other bodies will see who's the secrets from the investigative and other proceedings are placed in the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78038	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Matush.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78039	I thank you, Mr. Minister, the answer is very precise. It is clear that there are all the conditions for this procedure to continue and that justice will be served. It is a pity that we in the Croatian Parliament today have to talk about Radiir Cacic today on several occasions obviously, because a politician with such luggage in the European Union would not last a day. However, obviously the HNS is not ready to apply European standards, it is not ready to apply the standards that we apply in the Croatian democratic community, they are not ready to apply their coalition partners, they are acting, not to be offended, I will paint myself, like those three monkeys from the Chinese relief, one closes their eyes, the other closes their ears, and the other closes their mouths.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78040	Mr. Representative apologized for this comparison, did he? Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic will ask the following question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78041	Thank you very much Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to ask the question of Croatian Prime Ministers Mrs. Jadranki Kosor's question regarding a project that is important for Bjelovar, important for our county but is important for a number of other counties where students who study at four studies in the town of Bjelovar or students of vocational and secondary schools come from, means more than 5.5 thousand young people who do not have adequate accommodation in the town of Bjelovar. I will remind you that during the session of the Croatian government in Bjelovar, it was promised after a project was presented to build a student-student home. In addition to accepting the project then, the project has entered the budget for this year. Since then, the town of Bjelovar has singled out about 7.5 million kunas from its assets, a tender for contractors has been launched, but what has often happened, and this has been a complaint against the selected performer. Of course, since the election year is such an atmosphere always occurs and they are somewhat less well-intentioned who say this is one of the Croatian government's frauds towards voters in our county, that since the construction of this house there will be nothing because the commission has so far not responded to the appeal. I sincerely hope and believe that this objection does not stand, that it is not true, that we will get the building of a promised home in which we have invested enough ourselves, but I wonder if there is a possibility that this kind of necessary, necessary and promised project will be lost? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78042	Thank you. Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78043	Thank you very much, ma'am. Your question is interesting for several reasons. First of all, this is an important project, that the government is behind it, that we also signed a co-financing agreement through the government, through the competent ministry, to invest 75% of the funds. And of course no one in the government would sign something behind which it certainly doesn't, because we think it's more than justifiable since it's a building designed for 240 students. But here it is done, of course, not to you, but to those who complain who always have something to say. It is a classic example of how many seemingly fighting for a regulated rule of law, but when it comes to them, then they would no longer fight, or many would fight for more transparent public procurement, but when they don't like it, of course, that public procurement could be somewhat less transparent. It is, in fact, that two complaints have been lodged and that a commission which, as you know, is not in the government's jurisdiction, and it is also something that I think in the next period, means we will have to change in the next term, because it is a fact that I dare say very clearly and loudly, that many projects stand because they are not being resolved or resolved slowly in the commission, and then there is the impression that there is something that we are stuck with. So, we decided with a full transparency of public procurement, we set up a Public Procurement Office, a united public procurement and everything is going through that office now. But when complaints are filed, the question is, of course, and I'm not going to speculate at all, if sometimes complaints are made simply to make the whole project go away, it's not my place to judge, but now we're where we are. So until the commission decides what's going on with these complaints and until they decide ultimately on the fate of the contest, so far the government can't do anything. But I assure you more than I can because the agreement is signed, and therefore the government is behind it, and as soon as the commission decides, as soon as the situation takes place that can be moved forward, it is absolutely certain that a further agreement is to be signed immediately, or further decisions are to be made in order for the construction to actually begin. As far as the government is concerned, be calm, the government is behind the projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78044	Thank you. Mrs. Djurdja Adlesich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78045	Thank you very much. Well, actually, this is the last most important part of the answer I wanted to hear about the project going on. Of course, we must respect the procedure, of course we must respect the laws that we ourselves have passed, but it is important that the project is not given up during this period when we have naturally accepted the erasure of many other projects. Thank you very much, and I'm pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78046	Thank you very much. And we have a brief notice. Mr. President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture called the Committee today at 14 o'clock in room 133, 1st floor. Let's keep asking questions. He will ask the question, Mr. Representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78047	Mr. President, I'm giving my question to Mr. Mlakar. These days, we are witnessing a number of discussions on the financing of SDP's work, i.e. the financing of parties through foreign accounts. These days, the president of the Croatian Helsinki Committee, through HRT, announced that there is a secret SDP account in Graz that finances the political party's activities. Dear Mr. Minister, can the political party be financed or kept accounts outside the Republic of Croatia, because during any period of independence of the Republic of Croatia, was it possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78048	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78049	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, you're talking about the information that's been going on in the media the last few days, and what we could check is what's going to be the content of the answer to your first question, no. It was never possible for the political party in the Republic of Croatia to have accounts abroad. In this particular case that happened according to this data we've had since '95. In the year, the Law on Political Parties was in force, which also ensured the transparency of the financing of political parties, which they had to give their accounts to the Croatian Parliament in case they acquired illegal funds to finance their work. These funds were becoming the income of the state budget. It was even prevented from losing the right to finance from that part of the state budget intended to finance the work of political parties in the coming year. The SDP is '95. In the year he made the sale of the property he was owned, we assume as a successor to the Federation of Communists of Croatia, but the purchase for that part of the property was paid to the SDP in Graz's account according to what exists as the information contained in that contract. This was not possible either then or today, and of course it opens the question then the way to finance political parties, regardless of whether it was election promotions or the regular work of the political party, because then the obligation to report to the State Audit Office or the Croatian Parliament was probably not implemented if it was not known about the existence of the account. The opening of such an account was also contrary to the Foreign Trade Act which was in force at the time and only with the permission of the Croatian National Bank to certain legal entities was it possible to open accounts abroad at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78050	Mr. Kulusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78051	Thank you, Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with your answer. Let the rule of law do its job. I think this is just one of the accounts, or just one of the knowledge, and how many more of those the public doesn't know about as well as those from foreign states, Libya and others, we'll just find out about it. Looks like there's only one bill that's been corned up so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78052	Thank you. He's going to ask Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78053	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is for Madam Prime Minister. Madam President, what exactly did you mean when you said there was a danger of red Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78054	Madam Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78055	Here's what I was thinking, razor threats, Mr. Representative, that's what I meant, the threats you're giving us, and where your Social Democratic Party is being appointed as an investigator, as a judge and as an executioner. And because you do not respect the institutions of the rule of law and because your colleagues announce in their interviews that are programmatic that they will be very careful with the finger raised by Bajic and what the courts are doing. This is absolutely scandalous behavior, that you from your Social Democratic Party threaten to threaten a state attorney, threaten to threaten the State's attorney, to threaten USKOK, which, of course and in this programming interview with a razor, announces your colleague that everyone in the legislative and executive, or in the judiciary, or in the authority that decides whether someone is guilty or not and where it is finally brought to full by that constitutional decision, i.e. constitutional provision and constitutional value that everyone is innocent until a judicial verdict is proved guilty. You derogate, it is a red Croatia because we saw these methods and the Croatian people saw it well but unfortunately also tasted it in the ancient times of communism. And these threats are actually talking about you intending to abolish, ban the Croatian Democratic Community, and I guess after that, those with a razor all of us go to Goli Island, and that's ladies and gentlemen and Mr. Representative, that's the red Croatia that we lived in and that's gone forever. And you cannot threaten us with the parties that, on 25 June 1991, when the Croatian Parliament made a constitutional or decision on the independence of the Republic of Croatia when you left the assembly and you did not want to vote for that decision. We have indeed fought through all institutions, with all ups and downs, for democratic and European Croatia. This government, led by HDZ, ended negotiations and would not have ended if we hadn't built all these achievements into real life. So that's what I thought, Mr. Representative, that red Croatia like many of your friends, your dream buddies won't come true because this is a democratic country... and because Croatia is a democratic community that created the state needed for Croatia even though your friend with a razor says HDZ does not need Croatia. [[Applause.]] This will not go away, and therefore I call on all our members and all MPs to really advocate democratic rules here and here in the assembly, but also outside of it, and especially in the DORH, USKOK and especially in courts. No one will make any more threats to the judges, and no one will judge the judges, or be judged by those who are on the right hand, nor should they look wrong at those who are on the left. It won't go through anymore. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78056	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78057	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Prime Minister, such Croatia with the judiciary as it is now, and as you think it will be, you don't have to be afraid, that's the first. Secondly, much more damage was done to Croatia by your comrades with bags than by some you mentioned with razors. And thirdly, if you think when you mention the former system or the ancient communist times first, I want to say that everything that happened against human rights, against human rights and especially war crimes do not go out of date and must be punished whenever it happened and from whoever it happened and during communism. But what we have to stop saying is that those who were in the Communist party start warning about the red danger, those who were members of the 3rd Party Radio Zagreb Conference like you, Mrs. Kosor, to talk about the red danger. ... /The noise in the hall./... And then I guess that red danger should be represented by a me who I've never been to a party and a large number of my colleagues, that's what I'm supposed to be. Ours, by the way...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78058	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78059	Allow Mr. President another sentence. The only red danger in Croatia is red in the current accounts of our citizens who live badly, and this remains only a mere pre-election rhetoric and demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78060	Thank you, thank you. Thank you very much. It's good that the discussions are vivid, but keep them in line with the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to ask Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78061	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Prime Minister. Four years ago, so before the 2007 parliamentary elections Ivo Sanader, your predecessor and then HDZ president visited Croatia with his ministers, making numerous promises and laying numerous cornerstones. I will only remember this occasion: Centre for persons with special needs in Zadar, Zadar polyclinic, Park forest Musapstan near Zadar, bridge at Drava in Petrijevci near Osijek, square in Bela Manastir, south-west bypass, channel Danube-Sava. Since, on most of these occasions, when laying cornerstones with Sanader were you as his right hand and replacement, tell us now here in the Parliament, but also to Croatian citizens, which is one of those projects for which you have laid the cornerstones so far, so after four years, the mandate is at an end, so what has been completed and put into office so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78062	Madam Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78063	And I can't list it all for you because the President of the Parliament will interrupt me, which I will then. And you mentioned a bypass around Osijek, so here's how much I know, and it's built, and there's a hard building, and here's the last piece of corridor 5c. You mentioned the bridge on Drava, I don't know if you have the same information as me, but it's built with full power. It's a lady representative investment worth about a billion and 200 billion kuna and where there's certainly a lot of people employed that we haven't started and we haven't found the strength we wouldn't have worked with. Many of the other investments we have launched have been realised in recent years. But today, if I may say so, I have been holding an account for these two years since I run the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I can list the projects here from the Koprivnica railway – Križevci, which is also a major and important project that we presented in our programme. What I don't list for you is the fear that the president won't interrupt me because to get into red, I'm going to say that at this point Mrs. Representatives 20 billion, 20 billion projects are in realisation. I can inform you that in a few days, the competition for the Zagreb Airport will be completed. So you can move on with that project. But also to your joy that we have signed with your coalition partner Mr. Jakovčić a major and important Brijuni Riviera project and that this competition has already been announced internationally and that there are already many interested ones. This certainly makes you very happy, because it is about 2,000 new jobs that will enable this project and ensure not only important for Istria, Istria County, but for the whole of Croatia. Soon I will be back in Istria for the opening of another section of the highway. I recently opened here an important stock on, therefore related to Ravca – Vrgorac. But we also moved on, unlike you, who can't make a deal. We make it clear, and our program says we're building a highway to Dubrovnik. It's built here, it's also done on the Peljesk Bridge if you have time to go down and take a look. So we're doing a highway to Dubrovnik and from your coalition one says it's built not to build around the Peljega Bridge. Your president says it's going to be built. And when he realized it wasn't very good for me to explain to Mr. Vlahusic. But then your folks down there say the same day your SDP says it won't be built, it'll provide enough ferry. So you'd really have to agree on the projects. However, the projects we have announced are moving on. I repeat the great projects that we have launched are being done, but many have to say have been completed. And that's why I'm going to Croatia because it's my duty to be among people, among citizens, to listen to what they're saying. And, of course, to open projects that this government has completed. You can't forbid that either. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78064	Thank you. Mrs. Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78065	Prime Minister, I've asked you a really specific question. I asked for concrete projects. However, you answer in a way that is known – so you don't actually say anything. That's why I'll tell you. So, the Centre for persons with special needs in Zadar is not complete. Zadar's polyclinic where the works were actually suspended allegedly investigating the State's Attorney's Office. No one has ever set foot in the Musapstan Forest Park. But that's why you, in the manner of your predecessor, so whoever you are, are re-puting those same stone foundations in the Petries. Again, you promise to build a southern axis of the bypass, re-announce the Danube channel – Sava, with no means provided in the state budget this time. So it's all a bad rerun of a once-seen film called empty, false, and irresponsible promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78066	The next question will be asked by Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78067	Well, here's the last few years, and especially here are the last months before the break-up we've often talked about in view of these times of non-payment of salaries to workers. That number's moving we saw about 10,000 kunas. The opposition mentioned it, 70, 80,000, must have been and suggested for those who didn't pay their salaries, I guess, medieval torture. But here in the fourth month of this year, a small article interested me like this where it says that Cacic Koning's workers got paid for the 11th month. So, five months late. And I guess that's when the story quieted down a little bit. Since they did not receive salaries, they were not paid or contributions, so here I am asking Minister Dalic to answer me what is being done to make such companies pay contributions, especially if the boss of these companies lives a life that is here is certainly not consistent with even the rich in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78068	Ms. Minister Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78069	Dear Representative Markovanovic, it is certainly clear that the government is in no way willing to tolerate irregular payouts of salaries, contributions or other state contributions. Although I can't, given the tax secret, talk about the individual taxpayer, what I can certainly say can be reported to you about the numerous activities we're taking to make it appear where it is and has a downside. In this context, we use all the instruments that are at the disposal of the Tax Administration, the Financial Police as well as the REGOS. Therefore, in the first 8 months, the IRS is more than 57% of all infringements of the IRS, so to speak. the defendant's proposals were precisely due to failure to pay off his contributions. Also, 139 criminal charges have been filed for various tax offences, which is 30% more than last year. And also in this House is in the process of a proposal for a new Penal Code which will define non-payment of salaries and contributions both as a criminal offence and in this context even more strongly contribute to the resolution and reduction of this problem. However, what I think is also important is to highlight our excellent cooperation with our social partners within the Economic Social Council on this issue. Therefore, the trade unions in the past period have also signalled and indicated what companies in which pay is irregularly paid, thus helping the Tax Administration to act on those to whom it is due. And I would also like to inform you as well as all MPs that there is a free phone 0800-1001 to which all those who may be exposed to this kind of treatment by their employers, and even if it is, of course, persons who are involved in public business if they have companies, such as Mr. Cacic, and then, according to such applications and complaints, the tax administration will immediately act. The result of all these activities is a continuous reduction in the occurrence of irregular payouts and payments of contributions during this year and I believe that this trend will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78070	Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78071	Thank you. Well, here's the announcement that a law will be passed that will sharpen sanctions against such entrepreneurs, and I have to say that in fact, every worker who doesn't get paid a threatened existence, and that's why it's safe to do it as soon as possible. But here's a unique case of Radiir Cacic who instead, because of what he's been doing, what he's done, where there's a stronger urge for wealth than a moral act, I don't think we should be surprised because when he was a minister, when he was able to assign jobs to his firms without competitions, without building permits, when Coning was standing extraordinaryly standing, he's going to try to do it once more by lurking people's eyes about some kind of justice, about a large economy, about the rebirth of the Croatian economy and so on. Well, I do believe that's not going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78072	He's going to ask Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78073	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here in the past few months we have also heard statements and speeches from both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Tourism about the success and the course of the tourist season, and clearly the expectations that the tourist season can bring us, but the information we have heard has often been denied in some media or from some individuals, as if these individuals were afraid of positive news and positive information, or certain successes of this government. I therefore use the opportunity and here I refer to the question of the Minister of Tourism whether the first official results of the tourist season have arrived, that is, to introduce us to indicators related to the exactly, related to the successes of ours and to the almost past tourist season, or the tourist season that is still under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78074	Thank you. Mr. Minister Damir Byce. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78075	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, MP. In preparation this year, of course, the Government made an action plan in which it prepared over 30 measures, as they were diverse from the visa waiver, up to the spending of nearly 250 million kunas in promotion, but also in connection with partners. The result is there, we are sure that this year 2011 we will have a million tourists more than when the crisis began in 2009. But you're asking me, of course, and what's the second question, what's the financial impact. I'll say we have... statistics for the second quarter in which it is clearly indicated that the biggest increase in revenues in services is related to hotels, agency services, and tourism in general. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, these data are even more important because in the second quarter, Croatia had a positive increase in social national income, and this increase, which is a positive state-run institution, binds especially with so-called growth in tourism. We hope that in the end this post-season, but of course the data from the main season will confirm these good results that we already have for the first six months. As for that, we'll wait for the CNB, but if it's how it's done so far, we can't complain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78076	Thank you. Mr. Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78077	Thank you Minister for the information given, I am pleased with the answer and I believe that this information will remove the suspicion that has often been present in the successes of the Ministry of Tourism, and the successes in popularising Croatian tourism. I must express my satisfaction with certain measures and procedures taken by the Ministry of Tourism, particularly related to the popularity and rise of continental tourism, so I believe that you will continue to act in this sense to strengthen Croatian tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78078	Thank you. He's going to ask Mr. Attorney Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78079	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I will ask my question to the prime minister of the Croatian government. Here's the end of HDZ's mandate, the elections are ahead of us, and it's time to settle. One of the best indicators of each government is how much unemployment has been reduced in its term. Here I am specifically asking you and asking you a concrete answer so that Croatian citizens in the elections can make it easier to decide. How long was the unemployment rate at the beginning of your term of office, and what is the unemployment rate today?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78080	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78081	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, here I believe you saw the results of August, to cheer you up, so in August, almost 40% more was employed than in August 2011, 40% more people than in August 2010, and I'm sure it makes you happy. So, and also here last month is the reduction of the number of unemployed by 2,000 250 people, and that's less than July 2011. I'm sure that's what makes you happy. We have certainly taken many measures to reduce unemployment and through the Croatian Employment Service, but certainly by strengthening the Croatian economy, so you are certainly happy and data on GDP growth, but on trade growth by 15.5% in July, as well as these good data in tourism, but also GDP growth data by 0.8% of industrial production by almost 2% and trade in goods, or exports as you know more than 5%. So these are all indicators that say that if we continue to work like this, that employment will also be increased. Certainly, since you ask me at the end of this two-year term as prime minister, then I allow myself to remind myself of the fact that the government led by the SDP in 2003 at the end of its term had an unemployment of more than 320 thousand, at the time there was no global economic crisis, at the time the GDP grew 5.4%, but you blew the deficit to 5.4% and also sold everything that was sold from HT here to 25% plus 1 share of INA, that I'm not talking about banks that, hotels that sold to friends etc., etc. So, you sold out wealth and ended your mandate with 320 thousand unemployment even though there was no crisis in Croatia, because it showed GDP growth, nor in the world. So, Mr. Representative, when you ask questions to me at this time, you'd have to ask a question to your party's leadership.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78082	Thank you. Mr. Representative Mario Habek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78083	During your term of office, Mrs Kosor, unemployment grows even in the course of the tourist season, which has so far been unmarked in Croatian history. During the tourist season, the number of unemployed, i.e. employees, has at least grown temporarily. You're the only one who managed to get the unemployment number to grow in the summer. This really needs to be known and it is indeed an excellent realization of the economic recovery programme. And so today we have 300 thousand unemployed just thanks to your ability. We believe that citizens will reward your ability in the next election.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78084	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're just 20 registered for asking questions, that's exactly half, so there's still 20. Well, that's what we're taking care of because now she's almost twenty to twelve. We'll keep going. Ms. Nevenka Majdenic will ask the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78085	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Dear Presidents you and the Croatian government are constantly exposed to brutal attacks and insults by the SDP, the HDZB and the HNS, and in the deception of the public and the falsehoods such as those that you lay multiple cornerstones and similar to those of SDP and HDSSB representatives. My question is the following, honourable Prime Ministers, please inform the Parliament and the Croatian public of how much the Government of the Republic of Croatia has opened economic projects in the area of Osijek-Baranja County only in the last year, in which values, starting from infrastructure to investment in the business zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78086	Thank you. Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78087	Thank you very much, ma'am. Of course, I am not surprised that these attacks are brought together in hate I would say here is the HDSSB and the SDP because it is obviously part of the programme of these parties for parliamentary elections, but I will, of course, answer your question because I believe that it is extremely important in Croatia to achieve a positive atmosphere in which we could reach a moment when we can agree on at least three, two, one key project for Croatia for which to vote and which will be supported by all parties. So it's important to tell the truth. And here I join these efforts, so when you ask about projects in Osijek-Baranja County, so in 2010 for water supply of more than 20 million kuna, in 2011 more than 12 million kuna, for water protection in 2009 more than 39 million kuna, this year more than 77 million kuna. To protect against the harmful effects of water, so last year more than 124 million kuna, and this year 114 million kuna. For irrigation more last year than 2 million 690 thousand, and this year 3.5 million kuna. As you can see, in fact, many items are increasing funds in 2011 compared to 2010. There is definitely a project that we started, building a bypass, but also a bridge on the Drava not to repeat, the value of this investment is about a billion and 200 million kuna. Which will, of course, mean very much for the transport connection, but also for the support of the economy. As regards the total investment for the implementation of budget-related projects, this means for internal water projects, so these are investments in 2010. 23 and 2011 51, almost 52 million kuna. However, through the Ministry, here are the economies as regards the support of more than 47 million kuna by the end of September of this year, or 26 September of this year. From 2004 to 2011 more than 642 million kuna. But we can also talk about support for economic areas. So, it's co-financed eight entrepreneurial zones. Almost 4 million kunas were invested in it. As for the support here in industry, I can tell you, it means support to maintain the competitiveness of textiles. So more than a million kunas through an operational program of support for chemical production 572 thousand and something else, almost 580 thousand. The operational programme of promoting competitiveness and innovation 46 million kunas in total, so these are some aggregates. And so I don't list projects and energy related to PLINACRO first, so in this county about 71 million kuna. We also have very clear indicators of foreign direct investment. So they really don't tell the truth to those who won't keep counting because there's a lot of it, they can all contribute to you so you can use it in conversations with citizens and citizens of Osijek-Baranja County. But certainly we have invested a lot of strength again and again in difficult economic opportunities to invest in Osijek-Baranja County in both last and this year, and indeed we have shown in the work of what is one of the pillars and the work of this government, so the same investment in all parts of Croatia regardless of who is in power in which county and in which city. I'm going to pull the parallel from here to remind you of Rijeka where I was happily seen by a guest often in my term as prime minister where in just 2 years, ladies and gentlemen have invested in this county where it is in the power of the SDP and in the city where it is in the power of the SDP, which, among other things, spends unintended funds of the city budget, we, as Government, invested 4.5 billion kuna in projects only in that county. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78088	Here, Mrs. Nevenka Majdenic will now, so we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78089	I thank the president for the concrete answer, for the funds invested in Slavonia and Baranja, and this is the right answer, real proof that you and the government are investing in Slavonia and Baranja. And I think that's the answer to those malicious stories of opposition politicians from Slavonia that the government doesn't take care of Slavs and Baranjas. I personally regret that when you open an object, when you set up a cornerstone, which is what Assembly representatives and representatives of Slavonia and Baranja immediately call press conferences to speak against it, and the fact is that every open project, every set stone found, means that they will be built and worked there and that new people will be hired, and that should be in everyone's interest, that's what you were saying about one positive atmosphere. And I to you, Madam Prime Minister, on behalf of all Slavics and Slavic women who recognize your efforts and efforts and everything you do for Slavonia and Baranja, sincerely on their behalf and thank yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78090	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78091	Mr. President, Article 214 has been injured. Namely, this article warns the MP, this time you give notice to the Prime Minister, I always because during Mr. Sanader's vice president, it says here that he demeans or insults other MPs, this time insulted the HDSSB because it said it was united in hatred with the SDP. So the HDSB will not join in especially for hate, nor is it our hate programme, nor with the SDP, but we will team up with the people, and it will be a coalition with the people for a better life in Slavonia. And as for these big investments in Slavonia, I'm going to put on my glasses to better see these rock foundations. I think you're a little sicker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78092	Very critical and... qualifications here are given to many parties, including HDZ, SDP, HNS and you, there is no reason to be gentle when it comes to party qualifications. Let's move on, now I'm going to give Mrs. Biserki Vranic a word to ask the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78093	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. In fact, yesterday you stated that the Kukurik coalition would fire more than 80% of state and public officials, of course not, but in some ways, prompted me to ask the question, in fact, about the register of state and public officials. In fact, you have already promised this by coming to power and Minister Mlakar announced his resignation unless the register is completed by April this year. Please answer this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78094	Please repeat the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78095	My question was addressed to Prime Minister Kosor, namely, we heard yesterday that he is accused that the Kukurik coalition will reduce 80% of state and public officials by coming to power. Of course, that is not true, but it moved me to ask what is the register of civil servants and public servants. Namely, the registry was promised to be completed by April of this year, and Minister Mlakar also announced his resignation unless it was done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78096	Thank you. Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78097	Madam MPs, of course you could get a much more precise answer if you asked Minister Mlakara, because of course the Government is made up of ministers, so then Minister Mlakar, whom you're actually asking and you're asking me, of course I'll answer you. But I'm going to start with what you started, of course it's true that it's announced that your respected people, members of your party's leadership announced in the media, and the president of your party has never denied it, that 80% of the people will be fired in different interviews of the leading SDPs are still saying that those who only smell of HDZ, those who only smell of something that's more than the SDP's right to fly and that the feathers will be everywhere. And why do we believe that you from the Social Democratic Party announced, because we lived that time, and I ask you to remember your authority in Croatia, when you were not only mocking everything that was being mocked, when you fired more than 3,000 police officers, when you broke collective agreements, when the civil servants were the ones who are now announcing that they were going to fly, when they sued the state and then we had to find a billion and a half kuna out of the state budget, when you were sued by defenders who didn't respect your rights, so we also had to pay for more than a billion in the name of the lawsuit. Of course, we replaced everything from kindergarten boards to ergel boards, for example in Đakov, anything that was HDZ or better said that there was no SDP on the road. Therefore, since we survived that time, we have survived, and of course we trust your prominent members who announce that they will all be removed, who announce the cleanup, and who announce the behavior we saw many years ago in Croatia, but of course it will not pass. As far as the specific question is concerned, this job is done, so I suggest that Mr. Mlakar answer you in writing, and if you do not want him to answer you, then I will answer you and he will prepare in his ministry a detailed answer. Thank you very much, and I would like to add that, of course, we to the civil servants and in our programme that we announced yesterday, we will not further cut salaries because we have had to do this by fighting the crisis of Madam Representatives in 2009. Years ago, you were against, as you were against any decisions that should have been stabilised by state finances, but you were against amending the pension insurance laws, but you were against freezing the budget and you were against the fiscal liability law. Your view of Croatia is clear in these few examples but I am sure that Croatian citizens and citizens remember well and will make excellent decisions for all of Croatia, which means that they will agree with us that we should protect Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78098	Before another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Vranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78099	Of course I'm not happy with the answer. He's expected. Why did you ask a question? Because the ministers mostly do what you expect them to do, and if they don't do their job eventually, they do it as agreed. I don't believe that the choice of Minister Mlakar is that he doesn't do the register, so, and you as the most responsible person in the government should know that and should know that if you give it to the public and promise to execute it. The coalition will not deal with any redundancy or any rematch, because there is much smarter work in this country than it will seek the work, order and discipline and responsibility of each individual. And to do that we need to know the real state of things numerically, professionally and otherwise. So this is still as usual as the usual eye rub and giving or collecting cheap political points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78100	Thank you. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78101	Again, Article 214 defames Madam President of the Other Representatives, I cannot say everything, for some here probably do not understand what the President is talking about, but are bowing down, but that is already their problem. I don't see any reason to mention the ergel here, because Madam President, your government has just made a decision to abolish the legal personality of the Đakova ergel. I hope that tomorrow you will make a decision at the session of the Croatian Government on the return of the legal personality of the Đakova ergel, which was founded in 1506 years. You've just mentioned...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78102	Thank you. You have just injured the Rules of Procedure and this article is also 214. Mr. Representative, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 214 of which you are referring to paragraph 4 which says, "Call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or correction of an incorrect quote, and start talking about another subject that he has not received". Please don't use it, it doesn't make any sense to waste around that time. No injured Rules of Procedure, and I'm going to join one of the findings maybe a little later. In fact, since I've been sitting here for four years not full, it's never been this kind of record of asking a question to one person and that to the Prime Minister. She was asked 25 or 25 questions will be asked, which is 62.5% of all questions, and all of them 37.5%, and then it might be better for ministers when it comes to some special questions, so she might get a more detailed answer. If they want, of course, MPs, they're looking for more detailed answers. Let's move on, and he'll ask Mr. Representative Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78103	Mr. President, my question is for Mrs. Prime Minister. Before asking questions, you saw a little I went out and I washed my relatively clean hands. I also tried the question of not being dirty, that Mrs. Prime Minister wouldn't get excited, so here I believe I've managed somehow yet... In May 2011 Madam Prime Minister, your Government and you have adopted a regulation prohibiting, of course not without reason such a regulation, the Council prohibits additional payment by part of the fee and contract on the work of money to the employees of the ministries. And already in June this year, 411 thousand kunas were paid to health and welfare workers. Among other things, Minister Milinovic's spokeswoman and Secretary of State Mr Jurkovic. Since you and your government are constantly calling for the savings, order and respect of the decisions made, I ask you to answer to me, but also to the citizens of this country, how can I trust you when you are in violation of the decisions you have made yourself?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78104	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78105	It's a good thing you washed your hands, Mr. Representative, probably of all the Rijeka jobs you came to the assembly with today, so you washed your hands and what I've been saying all morning and reminding you of, but there's no one to hear me. So, 149 million kunas in the river you spent on purpose, that's what the State Audit said, that's not what I'm saying. I have the right to this is a free country to quote it. So 34 here's to the latest report again and from that you washed your hands as of course from the market case and from everything else that you didn't arrange and what you consider normal just because you're a representative and an SDP official. And as for this, yes, of course, we do because we made that decision on a ban on employment, additional employment in the state administration. We brought in the economic recovery programme, we brought in a two-for-one employment programme, and that programme is now part of the HDZ programme. And as far as this particular issue is concerned, of course as Prime Minister, and you understand that well, I can't know about every employee in every ministry. That would even be my options, because they're as big as you know, and I know you admit it, but that would be because you're not talking about a specific person and you're not talking about a specific ministry in such a way as to ask a specific minister. But here's the president, and the minister tells me it's a case before the government decides. Of course, however, I will answer a specific question very carefully in writing. And as for what was the government's programme, he absolutely came true. So, we banned new employment, we banned the purchase of cars, except where the lease was going, and then there was a replacement, but we also had to make decisions on some of the jobs that are related to the conclusion of the negotiations and the jobs ahead of us in order to become an EU member on 1 July 2013. And all the information about all this is very detailed in lip and kuna we can give to you. And we've brought as you know and frozen budgets or frozen expenditures by decision of the ruling majority, where we've reduced that budget by 20% in the beginning because of all the measures we've implemented and those on employment in recent years, but in such frozen expenditures that you Mr. MPs didn't have the courage to raise your hand, but you've had the courage to raise your hand by 149 million kunas of unsustained funds in the city of Rijeka and we've drowned in such frozen expenditure the new 4 billion expenditures for elections, for pensions and for all those others for a referendum that we have as responsible government. Mr. Representative, I hope to see you in the river soon and that you will wash your hands before that meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78106	Thank you. Mr. Representative Luke Denon, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78107	Nice, but look, I didn't ask you about the budget of the City of Rijeka, I didn't ask about the markets because you yourself say it's a matter of justice so you shouldn't comment on it. My question was about a minor 411 thousand kuna, not 10m euros, just taxed. So the question was about the credibility of the government and you personally when you make a decision or regulation as it is respected. I've been taught that politics is worth trust and credibility, and now the question is how many citizens can even trust a politician or a foreigner. I'm afraid by your behavior, you've wasted every citizen's trust by disrespecting your own decisions. And yes, of course, let's keep Croatia safe. I believe that you, as well as I, know that I have not heard that there is some major threat by neighbours, by the European Union, but I believe that citizens will recognise that there is a threat from unworthy politicians and that in elections they will be able to approve.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78108	Thank you very much. Let's move on. He's going to ask Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78109	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Dear Madam Prime Minister, after the July 2011 indictment of a senior court in Belgrade against Croatian defenders of the City of Vukovar, you announced a sharp reaction against all attempts to revise the Homeland War. Unfortunately, these audit attempts are common and not only come from outside but also from the Republic of Croatia. Madam Prime Minister, are you familiar with the following facts: the mention of the Serbian indictment of the ZNG and MUP troops in '91. In his judgment to Croatian General Branimir Glavas established all Croatian military troops until 8 October 1991, he treated the year as paramilitary formations. as illegal formations. Do you know that in the Serbian indictment, Croatian defenders of the City of Vukovar "are charged with shooting at JNA units" and that the Croatian court, in Branimir Glavas' judgment, said that by October 8, 1991. The only regular military troops in the territory of Croatia were the JNA units. Do you know that the Serbian indictment denies the existence of aggression between Serbia and JNA in Croatia, while the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in its June 2010 ruling to Branimir Glavas states: "as only since 8 October '91. It was clear to every other state and every foreign army that by performing war operations in the Republic of Croatia, they were being aggressive in the Republic of Croatia." Did you know that the Serbian indictment of war crimes in '91. in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is treated as an armed rebellion in order to bring down the constitutional order of the SFRY, and that the Supreme Court of Croatia treats these same war events in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as "armed conflicts which did not have an international character", therefore as civil war and not as aggression against the Republic of Croatia. There is no difference between the Serbian indictment and the Croatian court's verdict. The only difference is that those from Belgrade are written with the equka and Cyrillic, and those from Zagreb with ejaculation and Latin. Finally, the question for you, Madam Prime Minister, is when, in your view, the aggression against the Republic of Croatia began, before 8 October 1991 or only after that day, and what you think you will do to protect the Homeland War and Croatian defenders not only from the Serbian judicial authorities but also from the terrible findings of the highest Croatian judicial institutions. Because both are the harshest attempts and revisions of the Homeland War and the threats to the very foundations of Croatian independence and statehood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78110	Thank you. Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, since you've asked me a series of questions, let me begin with my answer. It's a question for you, too, but it's a matter of principle. Namely, do you know that, according to the Croatian Constitution, there are three pillars of government, so legislative, executive and judicial, and that the executive power cannot be luggage in any way in the judicial power and that it cannot even comment on the judgments and then not even the Supreme Court's rulings. This is a fundamental democratic principle, these are the values of both the Croatian Constitution and the Constitution, i.e. the basic documents of all democratic countries. And what the executive government must and what this government does is strengthen the independence of judicial institutions to make decisions without political pressures and to make decisions of course in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. As for the issues concerning the indictments that came back from Serbia, I must say that I learned about them the other day, so the moment they became public, when they were made public. And as you know then I have announced the adoption of a special law, and already today after the current morning, we will meet in the government, members and members of the government and propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the law in a simplified manner, declaring all acts of the former Yugoslav Army and also the former state, but the law is also referred to the law that Serbia passed in 2003. I agree with you in one, which is that we really must not allow the revision of Croatian history because Croatia was the victim of bloody aggression, bloody great-serb aggression and ideologies of Slobodan Milosevic and that we really must do everything possible to ensure that this bloodsuck whose ideology we in Croatia have really broken our teeth and allowed the opening of democratic processes and in the neighbourhood that this ideology is truly to the end and absolutely defeated. Croatian defenders are the most responsible for free Croatia, this is a fact because at the invitation of the first Croatian president, they decided, responded, defended, freed Croatia, and no one can erase that fact from the memory of the Croatian people or Croatian history. Together, we too would have to find more and more strength and strength to gather together in that struggle that we see is still going on. However, the fact that we have completed the negotiations and that on 1 July 2013 Croatia becomes a member, 28th member of the European Union and the Croatian language of the 24th official language of the European Union is also a historical fact and I would call the end of these negotiations the last battle of the storm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78112	Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78113	Thank you. I'm not happy with your answer, and I'll tell you why. I asked you about your position on whether the aggression started before October 8th, not to comment on judicial decisions. However, it is known when you mentioned the Constitution that it is according to Article 4. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The constitution is set up by the state authority on the principle of trinity of power. However, pursuant to the following paragraph of the same article, it is found that the principle of government division includes forms of mutual cooperation and mutual checks by the holder of the authority prescribed by the Constitution and by law. Therefore, it is without prejudice to the independence of the judicial authority of the obligation and of the executive and legislative authorities to verify what this same judicial authority is doing, and in particular when respecting the decisions of the other holders is concerned. Madam Prime Minister, it is the government's obligation to react not only to the attempt to review the Homeland War coming from outside, but also from Croatia. No one has the right to question the Homeland War and the foundations of the Croatian state. Your announcement of the adoption of the law on the futility of all acts of the former state that you have announced will soon go perhaps by next week I must admit that it is not enough. It is not enough for the Madam Prime Minister to react only when individual high-ranking HDZ officials are attacked but always and whenever anyone, anytime, and anywhere haunts true Croatian defenders. Your announcement of the adoption of this Act is only a paraphras of slogans from the recently held HDZ Assembly "Let's Save Croatia". This time under the slogan "Let's keep the Shex" and the one who will remain remembered in Croatian history not as the hero of the Homeland War, but as... To identify, arrest, transfer and which the heroes of the Homeland War have packed and mounted individual judgments are not worth it [[You can't hear the speaker.]] It is worth the true Croatian defenders and heroes of the Homeland War, not Vladimir Seks. [[Intruder President: Please!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78114	You've gone far beyond your right! Thank you. Enough. And here you don't need to further spread the actual question. You asked a question and you got the answer. Please, nice! It's Madam Representative Gjurjica twilight's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78115	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Madam Minister and Minister. So here we are today hearing about the credibility and way of government and government of the SDP in Rijeka, Dubrovnik. We forgot to hear about Vukovar and the small municipality of Zlatar today. But the best way is an example of the city of Zagreb and it is seen in reality their credible implementation of their programme, which means that they and how and how they creatively and systematically fill their party registers through malversion and theft for 11 years. This is about "Zagreb Holding", so we are reading in the press about the malversions involving branches and this is "Zagreb Parking", "Purity", "City Pharmacy", "The City Cemetery", "Zrinjevac", "Zagrebač roads" and "The Bus Station", and now the latest "Plinara" and "Vodobranda". The total real damage of Zagreb Holding was estimated at a minimum of 50 million kuna. The state budget due to this non-payment VAT was damaged by approximately 10 million kuna, so please see what with 10 million kuna in the state budget could be done. And, Your Honor, Mr. Karamarko, I'm going to ask you whether or not this inscription is based on any kind of investigation, regardless of what the Director of Holding is saying in the media that there's some possibility that 30 million kunas have been accidentally stolen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78116	Thank you. Answer Mr Tomislav Karamarko, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78117	Thank you very much for asking. Here I am, unfortunately, gentlemen, doomed to these brief answers, so I will answer that now, but very specifically. So, both the State's Attorney's Office and the police are monitoring everything that's going on around the Zagreb Holding so that I can inform you that we have really started these days on this matter, therefore the reconnaissance actions that I believe will be very quickly and realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78118	Madam Representative Gyurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78119	Thank you, Mr. Minister. With your answer, I will be pleased indeed when procedures are initiated and everything is revealed. Because you see, this coalition is really considered creative. In one way, they say that 30 million unwittingly steal, and then their friend Jovanovic says in a show on HTV when it comes to this 180 million in Rijeka that they were actually saving that money, and when his friend and friend took summers last year on Brijuni for 7 kuna, he called it a real awkward summer. Well, look, we see how awkward it's all in reality, how it's saved and how it's accidentally stolen. But the citizens and citizens of this Croatia see it the most, and that is why they will not give a voice to you, but they will guard Croatia and give a vote to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78120	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78121	Thank you, Your Honor. I refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. We have already warned on several occasions that the Croatian voters' lists are unsettled, incorrect and subject to electoral manipulations. You put your hand on it, accused us of not telling the truth, and... announce that this will be settled until the election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now that the census results were published, it became evident that we were right. Croatia has almost the same number of voters as if there were no minors. There are even more eligible voters in some constituencies than there are living residents. My question is why didn't you fix it and why didn't you do anything about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78122	Thank you. Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78123	Thank you very much. Oh, we've done a lot, we've done a lot of work in that big project of regulating Croatia as a real rule of law. I don't know how you missed that. So, a lot of valuable, important work from regulating the judiciary, from strengthening the judicial institutions that you think would be ideal to obey orders from your party. But then, we've really done a lot. And as for final regulation and regulation and election units, so in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision and with the recommendation of the Constitutional Court against which you jumped out of all your power and did everything that we had to say ok, well, we'll give it up. But I can now solemnly promise you all of this will mean a new arrangement of election units and everything else that is related to the elections will be done in the next term. So, the government headed by the Croatian Democratic Community. But it would be good, Madam Representative, since you are active in the city of Zagreb according to what is just before and asked, since you have personally apologized to the citizens and citizens of Zagreb for all the indifferences made at the time of 10, 11 years of the rule of the SDP in the main city of Croatia that you have consistently followed and your apologies, and to try with people today who decide in the city, in the people who are from the SDP to do everything in order to arrange these terrible things in the Republic of Croatia, but also elsewhere, and to stop the employment of similar, therefore, members of SDP and their families, and to stop purposeless and illegal spending of money. And give me once, please, when you're asking questions that are important to the citizens, once you've fixed this mess with enrollment in kindergartens and this mess of paying for kindergartens. Well, it's getting really intolerable. My office is covered with requests from citizens to do something about it. So do something in the city of Zagreb to stop the circus over circuses, because if you don't know how to arrange kindergartens and records, and that children go to kindergarten peacefully and that their parents come quietly to pick them up and bring them to kindergarten, and they take them out of kindergarten, and what else could you do. So how do you plan on running the country? Set up the kindergartens, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78124	Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78125	Madam Prime Minister, you're doing unskilled spin again, instead of answering our questions specifically. And as for the announcement that you're going to do it in the next term, it would take you at least 100 years to do it. So by simply collecting and subtracting it turns out that in Croatia, not counting the Croatian citizens from abroad 440 thousand voters more than the adult population, 10% of the electoral body is fictitious. If this isn't enough proof that you intend to manipulate the election, we really don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78126	Thank you. Let's move on. She's going to ask Madam Representative Tatjana-Simac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking Mrs. Kosor, or Mrs. Prime Minister, Jadranka Kosor. Mrs. Kosor, you personally and members of the HDZ are very often trying to intimidate the citizens with the untruths, the untruths about how the Kukurik coalition treats drug abuse. I'm asking you. As for the coalition, the Kukuriku coalition towards drug abuse. I'm asking you, do you even know what we're saying about this problem, what it says to the Kukurik coalition about drugs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78128	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78129	And look, I don't know why I should be talking about your program. So I'll talk about my prom, the Croatian Democratic Community programme. So we're against the decriminalization of drug possession, we're against what you're representing to have a joint, that you can have drugs for your own needs, because that's actually what you're giving a message that every drug dealer that gets caught on the road can say this is for my needs, and look, I have half a kilo, and that's what I need right. So that's the message you sent and the message you sent. Besides, your party president admitted how much I remember in an interview that he tried drugs. Madam representative, I'm not. We can all go to the test together. That's the answer. And as for HDZ, there's no decriminalization of drug possession, but there's a fight for every young man who's broken into the world of drugs. We'll fight absolutely with all the means, you can be sure of that. In the end we have implemented many training projects, treatment for young people who unfortunately have entered the world of drugs, but we will not allow the messages that are sent to possess, as many of your friends say having small amounts of light drugs can be tolerated. No, I don't. Every drug is a danger, ask whatever parent you want regardless of political belonging, some won't say it publicly, but secretly, no. Therefore, Madam MPs, be sure that the decriminalisation of drug possession in Croatia will not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78130	Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78131	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor, our position is clear. You're right every drug is evil, and precisely because we keep normal that every drug is evil we have to fight with everyone, but in a very serious way. Therefore, a clear distinction should be made between the aggressor and the victim. When you look at drug users, they're victims, so they need help. Agresors produce, they deal, they get rich on the back of exactly the kind of victims, on the back of weaknesses and accidents. And if the police, or the judiciary, are exhausting themselves on catching and punishing consumers for sure there's no time, there's less time and less will to deal with the very worst aggressors of manufacturers, drug dealers. That's why Mrs. Kosor, and you all from HDZ who interpret our position wrong, which is why we propose to possess a small amount of easy drugs for your own purposes because a criminal act, but gentlemen in the area of crime and punishable by manufacturers and drug dealers, and for them no punishment is too high. That's the difference, gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78132	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Josip Djakic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78133	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. There have been two serious car accidents lately, and in each of them two people have been killed to death. One was caused by a well - known entrepreneur who had already had several serious car accidents behind him. As a result, he spent some time in custody, and he was told a ban on driving vehicles to protect other participants from danger. Another accident was caused by Croatian People's Party President Radimir Cacic. The man is also known for four serious land traffic accidents before the death of two people in Hungary. After that tragic accident, he committed another sea and one on land. And yet, even though it is extremely dangerous for the environment, it was not arrested, not even after the third accident, nor was the public aware of the withdrawal of the driver's license, nor the permission to sail. My question is to ask Mr. Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Mr. Minister, can the Croatian state protect its citizens from such aggressive drivers who have repeatedly participated and caused serious traffic accidents, including those with fatal outcomes? If so, why are measures to protect Croatian citizens on Radimir Cacic not applied?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78134	Mr. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78135	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, of course Croatia can protect its citizens from drivers who have such spells causing such serious accidents. We in criminal law have envisaged security measures if someone is convicted of a traffic crime where such serious consequences arise, our courts express the security measures to withdraw driver's licenses. There is also a new Penal Code that will come here very soon and in a second reading where we have sharpened and we threaten even greater prison sentences than they are today. We're introducing a new crime, and it's an act of hanging driving. It means where there doesn't have to be any consequences and such severe deaths, but it's enough to actually be exhausted... The works needed to get to that ride that is far, far above or contrary to the Driving Safety Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as this part of the part you've been talking about is the fact that there's been an act here in the neighbouring country in Hungary, that it is responsible for the conduct of this case by the Hungarian court. You can see for yourself that the proceedings are being conducted, and of course we can't prejudge the court's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78136	Thank you. Mr. Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78137	I thank you for your response and for all the instructions you have given, Mr. Minister, but I would like to ask you an additional question in writing. Did Mr. Cacic get his driver's license for motor vehicle management, and did Mr. Cacic get his boat management license? Which would be necessary and necessary. If it is right, if it isn't, and who did it to the judges or state authorities that it was not applied to the same measure of law as to everyone else?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78138	Thank you. He will ask a question, Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78139	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor of the President and my Government, I ask that if you already want to shave the truth, you do it with evidence, so when you take an interview, find a sentence that says what is the construction on the cover. Do it not for me, but do it for all those citizens in the Republic of Croatia who do not need to be afraid of such sentences. And my question for you is very precise, and that means were you at the HDZ Bureau meeting when a decision was made to leave management rights to the INA MOL? But please brief answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78140	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78141	Well, that's a very good example of how you think you can rule Croatia. You are not an investigator, you are not Mladen Bajic, you are not Dinko Cvitan to ask me in the assembly as Prime Ministers and executive authorities questions concerning the investigation. But I will answer you, I have been to all the meetings of the HDZ presidency and such a decision has not been brought against you. But I don't really have to answer that question to you at all, because I repeat you're not, and you can't get it into your head, you're not an investigator, you're nothing but a parliamentary representative. You were the chief of police, so I'm going to ask you a question as to how it was possible, and I've been given these days documents from people who were working at the time, that at the time when you were the chief of police you were purposelessly spent, or without the 28 million kuna tender? Mr. Representative, answer that question. But also that one respected member of your party or your representative's husband at the time as an employee of the Ministry of Justice has been convicted by power in the Croatian Court for misusing his position and stealing from the state. So, Mr. Representative, you're not gonna play judge, you're not gonna play investigator, why, and neither the DORH, nor the UskoK, nor the police because you're not a police officer now. Why? Because the rule of law doesn't allow it. Because the legal state said it would do this to UskoK, it would do the DORH. If anyone supports the BOOK and if anyone supports the DORH, it was the Croatian Democratic Community, and you told Mladen Bajic: "Be careful what you do, because it will cost you," and you told in your interview, you say I tell you one sentence, to you with a razor that threatens Croatia and HDZ, to ask reporters about the Rijeka Markets, "It's a real example of politicisation." So when you ask a question about crime in the Rijeka Markets, so we don't know if it was, we ask that the State's Attorney say what it is on the basis of a police investigation, you say right now it's politicisation and you send a clear message to the public – who touches the SDP if it would come to power, and you won't really show those methods very clearly to the citizens what your intention is, so if you say everything would be, as you say in the interview, you don't. This is, I repeat, a democratic state. Croatian defenders fought for the democratic state and the rule of law in the fullest sense of the word where no one from any party will judge any individual but will do so on the basis of investigations by the State's Attorney's office, courts that are completely independent and completely free. And I repeat, and even then, and now, according to the Constitution, everyone is innocent until it is proved to him by a judicial power. You don't mind, I accordingly, you don't mind being Mr. Ferenchak, a respected member of the HNS deputy head of your headquarters for the fight for power. A man who clearly exploited what the court said in a first-degree verdict, but you're setting him up as one of the chiefs to run your campaign. Mr. Staying rules of democracy must apply to both HDZ and HNS and SDP and all parties in Croatia because that is the only way, Mr. Representative, we can go forward. With these methods of yours, which you and your razor announce, we're not going anywhere. And the citizens will recognize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78142	Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78143	Madam Prime Minister, I am pleased with your response. In fact, I'll start at the end, since you've had a chance to say for a very long time I hope that I won't be denied the same time. First of all, if you'd asked around, then you'd know who Mr. Ferenck reported it, but I'll stick to those sentences a little while before I'll stick to your sentences, which is that you should wait for the power to be able to tell someone he's a criminal. What's my message, and you can read it because you have this interview in front of you, it says it's not political to judge, it's political to point to political responsibility. It's my message from the interview and the message is also that neither you nor anyone else can decide on whose door to knock or tell the State's Attorney's office what to do. That's what my message is, read it. And as for the INA, Mr. President, since this is still a situation where we parliamentary deputies ask questions to the government, and we have experienced today that Madam Prime Minister is asking me questions, then let me go back to the part that was related to the answer. So, red obviously applies in this home only to those who speak, as far as you're concerned, about the management rights and decision-making, I'm glad you said and that's where you should respect what the indictment says. Also, it's not true what it says, it's quite independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78144	You've gone right to the good you've got, please nicely, you've got the answer, if you're looking for a written one you can get in writing, but please let's get it over with. Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagaric will ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78145	Mr. President, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask my question to Mr. Karamark, Minister of the Interior, and I would like to begin with one quote from our colleague and humanist Dr. Langa who said it ended in 2nd. World War I beat evil, but we didn't win well. In fact, the evil of communism left behind 100,000 victims of innocent civilians, women and children of deportation and prison, torture and other forms of war and war crimes against humanity, which certainly includes persecution and exorcism, we live with the belief that half of Croatia lives in emigration, for the good part for it. So far, no one has ever been responsible for these crimes, the institutions of this country must act in accordance with their responsibilities, for the responsibility and respect of all victims of communism and their families, but also for the responsibility of our children and the future. This is also in line with the European and Croatian declarations of condemnation of crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have announced investigations involving these crimes. I am interested and interested in the Croatian public what you have done about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78146	Thank you, Mr. Minister Tomislav Karamarko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78147	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Yeah, I announced a few months ago just strengthening the activity in this sphere. So the crimes you're talking about are really scary, we're talking about crimes that were committed by 9. May 45. From the fall of the capitulation of Germany to the creation of a modern, to the creation of a democratic Croatian state. In today's Republic of Croatia, police have registered 731 caves filled with Croatian corpses, in Slovenia it is some 650 caves, registered 120 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as far as Serbia and Macedonia are concerned. I think the problem with this is that so far, there has been a marked insensitivity to address this issue, and that this is exactly the ministry and this government and evidence that from the ranks of the Croatian Democratic Community I only get questions that point to the interest in this problem really speaks of this insensitivity which is incomprehensible. We've started investigating and processing, we're doing a lot of them, I can tell you that so far we've had over 1,300 conscious conversations with people, witnesses. What's wrong with me is the lack of consensus of political will to solve it. There is not only one party who can insist on this, as far as the specific situation is concerned, at this point we are completing two important items that are at the very final stage of the realization that I think will be very soon and I think it will be the beginning and I think it will be a breakthrough of the ice because we simply have to respect the European Union resolution, we must respect the 2006 Assembly declaration. In years, and finally I'd say by digging up those pits that are buried, wrapped in some kind of silence, I think we're going to bury our divisions that are evident in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78148	Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78149	I thank Mr. Minister for your answer, thank you for your interest, thank you for the government of the Republic of Croatia that raised this question, I would only find, despite all those who are concealing, undoing these monstrous crimes, which is also a crime, have strength, continue, the Croatian public is sure to follow this question, monitor what the institutions of the Croatian state are doing in connection with this, the Croatian Church also follows this issue and Croatians living outside Croatia because they are concerned about these issues and victims themselves very often were the communist system. Have strength and insist on this contrary to all those who deny this great misdemeanour, among which are those who work in the institutions of the Croatian state, and one of them unfortunately performed a high duty of the president of the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78150	We have now, I apologize to Mr. Ostojic for finishing this question and answer. Here, he's got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78151	Dear Mr. President, Article 182 has been injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In response to the questions raised, the duration is provided for 2 minutes and, where specifically, for 4 minutes. Since the answer that or not really in my opinion isn't so complex I think I've been denied the right to answer these things but I don't insist on moving forward and not owe this session, I'm just going to ask now to change this thing and that's to get a written answer to my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78152	Here it can be extended to four, but as far as the matter is concerned, it can not be extended but lasts for two or one minutes. It is time to ask Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is to Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Namely, HDZ's majority in the Defence Fund Management Board, which was appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the time, delivered to MOL 7% of the INA shares and only to correct an incorrect quote by Mrs Kosor today, when she said she voted against, namely, we have information written that was made at the press conference, a statement made that a unanimous decision was taken at the press conference. Furthermore, the HDZ Presidency and the HDZ Government have enabled MOL to change its share contract more management rights than their ownership rights do. However, we still do not have an answer where money is as compensation for these management rights, but it is a matter of corruption and judicial proceedings but also of morality. During today's session of the Assembly, representatives of the HDZ Club referred a whole series of questions with a whole series of untruths, which was also a moral issue. Namely, it is known that at the request of the Croatian Parliament MPs, the State Attorney's Office wrote a reply to all MPs in the Croatian Parliament that Radiir Cacic was found no basis for the prosecution or suspicion of a criminal offence. You recently announced that you are going with the change of the INA privatisation law to prevent MOL from trying to acquire a majority package of INAs. At the same time, on a proposal from a fellow SDP ten months ago, the same law has been signed by the government to oppose such a proposal with a whole series of arguments why and why. And my question to you as the appointed president of the HDZ and Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia which is your personal role in the process of delivering INA to MOL and especially in this moral context as your personal responsibility?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78154	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78155	Mr. Representative, great that you are talking about moral responsibility, a representative who comes from a party who does not consider that the issue of moral responsibility should be asked to the president of his party of the CNS, who, as you know, has huge problems of personal nature, but also problems concerning the judiciary, not Croatian at the moment but Hungarian. And you're talking to me about moral responsibility, and you don't have the courage to ask your president how someone who's faced with such huge problems can often threaten Croatia every day that it will be something in the government and that he will oversee and control most of the ministries and will hit the pace of Croatia, and there is no courage from the position of the party president at the moment when he faces a huge moral but criminal issue. So please don't lecture me on morality on this occasion. As for INA and any responsibility, I think I have to tell you, unfortunately, at least that part of what I said just before a few SDP representatives, but apparently that went through the HNS as well. So you don't understand that there are investigations that neither you nor... first or any other party in Croatia but rather bodies that are responsible for it. As far as INA's responsibility is concerned, how dare you ask for responsibility for the INA you who were in the government that spent the INA, and I must now say it from this perspective for insignificant money. And the question is all questions, and I'm sure the day will come when we will answer that question, why, why and how and who was behind it, and then, as you know in the government, was the president of your party, Mr. Cacic. Therefore, the question of responsibility for the sale of INA was referred to the wrong address. And as for the latest indictment, of course I said if there was a reasonable doubt, if the State's Attorney's office were to press charges against someone, then there's a suspicion that some work was done in a corrupt criminal act or on corruption, of course it's here for the government to do everything to make any further proceedings of selling a stop until we see what the court will say. But it still doesn't get into your space that the court has to say, and then we'll see one day if the court finds out that there was a bribe, then of course the State's Attorney's office will probably go back to law to declare that job might be worthless. But it's in the hands of the state's attorney's office. What we can do as a government is protect Croatia's interests at this time. And that's what we're gonna do. And we do not say in the law as you now say, that we will prevent anyone, but we say and we will say, and that is our urgency, of course, in accordance with the agreement with the European Commission, that no one but the Republic of Croatia will own more than 49%. I don't know why you're talking about MOL like Mr. Cacic at a Kukuriku coalition conference immediately told me I was MOL, and no one asked him about MOL. So MOL is, of course, Hungarian companies. And as for the sale of 7% of the Croatian Defence Fund's INA shares, I've told you nicely, and you don't want to hear the facts, because you also think you're an investigator and judge, that the board of directors of the fund has made that decision, and it's really unbearable what you're saying is that HDZ's defence majority in the trust's board has been making. Do you really think you can insult Croatian defenders in this way? One of the highlights is, for example, Djuro Boy General of the Croatian Army who was sitting there on the board of directors and you say that this is the majority that decided on the sale, and I did not vote for that decision, Mr. MP, simply because I thought it would be the right to decide on what fate these shares would be given by Croatian defenders because they are also shares of Croatian defenders, which the HDZ Government also transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund, unlike those of you who sold to the INA, and you did not give the defenders any lip, let alone 7% of the shares. And that's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78156	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78157	Thank you very much. Normally, I'm not happy with the answer, because all we heard was far from answering my question, so I'm looking for a written answer. And when we talk about morality here, we have a 2008 press report, your statement, "A broad consultation has been made, and that is our unanimous decision to the trust board," unanimously. Here, and it's easy to check. So, when we talk about morality. And when we go to compare morale with the fact that our former Prime Minister is in prison, the former vice president is convicted and under investigation, the government minister is convicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78158	That doesn't prove anything or deny it. Let's move on. He will ask a question Mr. Representative Stipe Gabric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78159	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Croatian Prime Ministers and Ministers. I began my term four years ago with one question, and it concerned the price of the mandarins of the same minister to whom I will ask one other question today and thanks to this minister, Mr Pankretić, behind him, Mr Cobankovic, now both Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Government headed by Mrs Jadranka Kosor. The Neretva Valley and mine would say Zagorci peasants or peasants, for these four years farmers raised their price of Mandarin from 2.20 kuna to 3 kuna and Neretva won cca somewhere if we will in kunas about 150 million kuna, if in euro we will raise just over 20 million euros and one great thank to the Croatian Government. And I think it would be smarter today if we had a nice day in nature, today the harvest is full, the Mandarins are more attractive than we've asked many, many suspicious and immoral questions. My question is today, I will ask it to the vice-president of the Croatian government and the minister of regional development, forestry and water economy. Since the crisis first hit the United States and moved to Europe and came to our small but beautiful country, one of the most affected by the crisis was the wood industry, because without a nice chair, you can, without a nice table, you can, without a closet, but without a papacy, you can't. What the Croatian government and the restoring ministry did in this significant branch that is important in the processing industry, which is very much exporting, what it has done to help them and what measures it has taken in recent times.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78160	Thank you. Mr. Vice President Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78161	Thank you very much to the esteemed representative, Gabric. So here's what you said yourself, as the Croatian government has helped with the Mandarin, but as far as the total agriculture is concerned, of course, in this case the Croatian government hasn't stood by with its hands and from the very beginning when, of course, the crisis hit our wood industry first and for the clear reason that the wood industry is a large exporter, almost 75% of the production is being exported and they were the first to feel what was happening in the external markets. We helped with direct measures, we also helped through the state-owned company "Croatian Forests" which made it easier for many and certainly a period of payment, but also for certain uses to survive and for them to be able to establish very specific data today. When we compare for example the first seven months of 2011 to the first seven months of 2010, then we can say exports increased by 11%. When we look at the foreign trade balance, it has grown by 25%. The very specific things I believe are, of course, the result of direct assistance. I'll tell you this year we're at the end, we're also done with the operational program, 65 million kuna of grants came to 147 entities in the wood industry. I will point out that almost 90% of that is for new investments, for new technologies, for environmental protection. When we look at it, it's almost the total investment made by these 147 entities almost 400 million kuna. I think this data is saying enough that we're doing the best we can, but it has certain effects. Maybe some don't know, I'll take this opportunity, maybe there's too little talk about positive things, and here's what we're talking about in the wood industry. Croatia has one of the largest chair manufacturers in Europe. Company, I'm not going to advertise it here, but for the record, the company that produced a million 150 thousand chairs last year. Currently on the French market, the most sold sitting set is from Croatia from Croatian producers. I think this is certainly a positive example, and I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia participated in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78162	Thank you. Mr. Representative Stipe Gabric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78163	I thank you for your reply, and yet I call upon everyone together one day when there is a good time because these next 20 days of Parliament will be just shooting left to right and right to left, to come all nicely to the valley of Neretva. The town of Metkovic is poor but we will gather, always welcome guests, to pay a nice treat and spend one day in nature in the harvest of mandarins that are in export one 90%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78164	He'll ask a question, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78165	I'm asking my parliamentary question to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Djuri Popiac. Dear Ministers, the pensioners of 1 January 2009 after the entry into force of the Amendment to the Law on Contributions hoped that they would be able to earn something for a naked existence because these legal changes had ceased the obligation to pay contributions for the occasional jobs of the pensioners, and the involvement of the pensioners also became attractive for employers. However, in practice on the application of this law today, it decides exclusively to inspect the work that mainly punishes employers who temporarily employ pensioners, although not paying contributions do not violate the existing law. For example, small agencies that hired pensioners on occasional survey or distribution activities of promotional material are also punished with 30 thousand kunas of fines for the engagement of each pensioner. Can you explain to me who in Croatia and how it decides on the work of pensioners and how it is possible that the opinion of the Labour Inspector is more important than the law passed by the Croatian Parliament. So my question is whether pensioners in Croatia can work on occasional jobs without paying contributions or not. If I understand correctly, your party in its pre-election program again promises more work for the pensioners although it is one recognition that other than form you have done nothing to implement it in reality than to prevent the law from being applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78166	Mr. Minister Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, of course, on January 1st, as you said exactly, the Law on Contributions made possible by pensioners on those jobs and in those times that do not have the characteristics of a working relationship. So it's tied up and it's complementary with the Labour Act that defines, of course, a much wider area. It is also clear and defined, of course, as regards the exemption, i.e. the payment of contributions and taxes. It's all built in, and of course it's brought by this government. With regard to the possibility of abuse, of course, if anyone has been unjustly treated by an inspector or inspection officer, unwarrantedly in his opinion, has paid the penalty, of course, to seek appropriate other solutions in the next procedure. However, I would not agree that you stated that this government does not take care of the status of pensioners. So it's already been mentioned here. 850 million kuna this year returns to the pensioners. 145 kuna for certain categories of pensioners up to 3200 kuna. You will be discussing in the Assembly these days 4 legislative proposals that seriously correct certain illogicalities that have so far been in the pension system and everything that has been regulated and implemented during these two years in order to improve the status of pensioners. Not to mention, despite the severe economic financial crisis in the world, of course, which had consequences for both of us, not one day the pensioners were deprived of their pensions, nor were they rightly or in the amount of pension touched. So here's what you mentioned in the program. We will continue to take care of pensioners, and we will also find solutions for quality inclusion of pensioners and the labour market as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78168	Thank you. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78169	Well, Mr. Minister, I'm very pleased that you've answered my question that I haven't asked and told a lie because the Law on Contributions has not specified exactly what jobs pensioners can do on occasion without paying their contributions. But in practice, we have one situation where the state pays and employs citizens regardless of whether the pensioners and the workers can then make a net payment to current accounts without a contract. Writers all received net amounts on current accounts without any contracts, without taxes, without contributions. When the employer does so and hires the pensioner, then 1001 is the obstacle, and I will be pleased to discuss the laws here in the Croatian Parliament and I would be pleased to have you present. There's only one thing I'm asking you to do. I am the representative of the Croatian Retirement Party here and no one has the right to change that name in his speech. And another thing. Listen to the phonogram. I listen well to what is said in the Croatian Parliament and if I am not here then via television. And secondly, please don't mention the debt to the pensioners because you didn't mention him in the 2003 election either. For you there was no election programme and was resolved only because there is a Croatian party of pensioners as a parliamentary party.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78170	It's hard to understand that one law can be passed with three MPs. It's Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78171	Here I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mrs. President of the Croatian Government, Ms. Minister and Minister. I will refer my question to the Minister of the Interior Mr Tomislav Karamark. It is known that SDP's party officials often point out and generalise certain cases of abuse in other people's ranks, while concealing crime in their ranks by relativising and tolerateing these facts in any creative way that is not politically mature or acceptable, especially damage in Croatian democracy. A series of citizens in my constituency Istria, Rijeka warned me about the case of the chairman of the SDP County Mayor's Committee of Istria whose wife's mate was filling his current account with stolen money, and that he allegedly didn't know about it. Mr. Minister, the citizens are wondering if only the husband could be responsible for stealing the money of the fire department that they obviously spent together?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78172	Mr. Karamarko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78173	Ladies and gentlemen, so very specific. A criminal complaint against one person has been filed in this case. Did they spend together and who knew what, etc. We have another person's claim that she didn't know, so to alienate these funds. But I think it's very, very prominent here, this moral, I would say, actually, immoral sphere of the whole case.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78174	Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78175	I am pleased with your response because, indeed today, corruption is bound to all and it is necessary to eradicate from Croatian society, and indeed, for the sake of Croatian society, we need to raise high standards of sensitivity in both legal and moral terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78176	Thank you. The question will be asked by Ms. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to refer my question to Mrs. Prime Minister. Mrs. Kosor, the amendments to the Penal Code in which we proposed that non-payment be treated as a criminal offence were proposed in March 2009. So two and a half years ago. You didn't accept it until the elections came to the door, and all these years the people who worked and didn't receive the wages no one asked how they would pay for the water, or how they would pay for the electricity, or for their children's books. So since you said that the Kukurik coalition signed over my program from you, my question is: How is it possible to rewrite something that is not available? How is it possible to rewrite something you didn't have at all or suggest until today or to be more precise until yesterday? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78178	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78179	Madam MPs, since you're asking party questions, I'm going to answer that question. You've overwritten a lot, but of course a lot of what you've copied can't be accomplished because you've shown what you can do between 2001 and 2003, and you just need to listen carefully and watch, read what's being announced by 80% of the people who are going to be out of a job in the state administration, which announces your program further. But when you ask me about the non-payment of salaries, that is, those employers who don't pay their salaries. We clearly said that first of all we need to determine how many people this applies to, and as you know in an excellent dialogue with our social partners, we have established it, so it's about 18 thousand people, and you've claimed something completely different. And of course we have built that into the provisions of our Penal Code, and of course the Penal Code will, when it comes into force, be more than rigorous to those who, of course, employers who do not pay their wages, or who do not carry out their basic obligation. So I would suggest that you ask that question to your coalition partner who, as we heard today and on the issues, for example. The representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community do not pay their salaries today to their workers, so it is the Coning company where salaries are not paid and where salaries are late 6, 7 months, but this question of course you do not have the obvious courage and strength to set up the partners, so to answer how it is possible that someone who has such large assets and ships and cars etc., etc. In fact, it cuts off its workers and does not pay them what they have earned bloodyly. And on the other hand, of course, when we're opening up that payout topic, it would be very interesting to hear from you that it was possible for your husband to rent a place owned by the city of Rijeka for which he didn't pay everything he was supposed to pay, and then the city of Rijeka in which he forgave all these debts in the power of the SDP because you are a member of the SDP. This would be an important issue for Madam MPs, and we expect an answer to this question as to how this is possible in the city of Rijeka, in which the Social Democratic Party is in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78180	Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78181	Mrs. Kosor, I'm here to ask you and not you to ask me. I'm sorry you're going back in time because she's pretty black for you, Mrs. Kosor, the balance of your two-year disaster, just 170 thousand unemployed in two years. Today you are visibly nervous, but you will not provoke me, but I will tell you that the Kukurik coalition has also proposed the Labour and Social Courts Act because it is the only solution for non-payment of salaries, but also greater financial discipline, because it is unacceptable that no financial institution reacts to violations of labour rights. We also propose a solution to reduce indifference, because it is the biggest problem in the Croatian economy, and you have not done anything about it either, Mrs. Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78182	The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78183	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I would like to join my fellow colleague, Gabrića Jambe, to take a trip to nature, but I call to my Podravina where our farmers have to say thank you for all the efforts that the government has made to create competitive agriculture. But let's go to the question I'm going to refer to the Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Gyura Popioč. Pliva was therefore a world-renowned and successful pharmaceutical company, one of the pillars of the Croatian economy. In its privatisation, certain irregularities have been identified... A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that year, Pliva enters with strategic ownership of the Republic of Croatia in the amount of more than 20% of shares. This means that with a strategic package of shares owned by the Republic of Croatia, Croatia could also participate in making important business decisions. Unfortunately, during the period of Racan's coalition government from 2000 to 2003, the Republic of Croatia lost ownership of the 20% strategic package, 5% of the shares and thus lost the potential to influence the important business moves that followed. The recent amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia abolished the obsolescence of crime in privatisation, so conditions were created for the examination of how to sell the strategic package, the sale of Pliva. It is known that the public has never been informed about the sale, nor have the media informed the public of the government's decision to sell the strategic package of shares at the time. The question, Mr. Minister, is as resolute minister known as the results of the investigation in... A strategic package of Pliva state-owned, and how do the privatisation actors then sell the primary vice-president of the government for the economy and not the resolute ministers? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78184	Mr. Djuro Poppie, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78185	Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. So in other words here is the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute right 10 years ago, so by 10.12.2001 he owned 25.5% of Pliva shares, and the Croatian Privatisation Fund was owned by 0.6% of Pliva shares. 10.12. is 8.98% of Pliva shares transferred to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, which was transferred to Pliva 7.94% of shares for the then estimated stock price of 413.60 kuna. This settled Plivi's debt of about 670 million kuna and the debt to the Zagreb bank of around 80 million kuna, and these transactions, therefore, caused by the transfer of shares of the state of course, i.e. the Croatian Pension Insurance Office fell below 25%. It was, therefore, the way in which the problem of individence and debt of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance was addressed to the faithful. Of course, the question of how is it possible for that debt to be over 700 million kuna only for Pliva, and we see how it was solved, not only obviously in the context of Pliva, because Pliva also then entered the list of all those companies that were privatised at that time, so INA 25% plus one share, Croatian Telecom, hotels in Dubrovnik, etc. Now what was the process and procedure, in which the process in the judiciary, at which stage is it you will have to ask the second Registrar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78186	Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78187	I thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm sorry about that lapus. But I would add that our backup ministers are stronger than the best of the opposite sides. But I want to say that it is certain that this information will contribute to public intelligence, because there is a great interest, if there is work for institutions, then I believe that they will have the possibility of uninterrupted work, but not in a way in the circumstances of noise and pressure and insult as it is done. And we're socially sensitive, we're the best and, and they were the best at the time because they had a record unemployment of 425 thousand unemployed. They denied debt to pensioners, reduced salaries to nurses, introduced work obligations of doctors, not to speak of those most sensitive categories, so births, small children, Croatian wartime disabled. So everything that could be cut could be cut, and now the razor is still being announced. Which is too much, it's too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78188	The question will be asked by Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78189	Thank you, Mr. President. The question is for the prime minister, I would like to ask you immediately to somehow ensure that the prime minister answers my question since she has shown great curiosity today, so she keeps asking instead of answering. In two months, he'll have a chance from these benches to ask how much he wants. Madam Prime Minister, you are saying that you have just launched a fight against corruption and that the fight will stop if it wins the Kukuriku Coalition elections. On the other hand, the fact that it is not scientific yet and not historicly etc., determined who actually started fighting corruption you or your predecessor Ivo Sanader who also claimed it for himself but at that time very much supported him in that claim, endlessly praised him and even sometimes caricatured him. So, dear Madam Prime Minister, on what grounds do you base your completely absurd thesis that the coming of the "Kukuruku Coalition" on power to fight corruption will stop?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78190	Thank you. Mrs. Prime Minister Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78191	First of all, I'm going to answer your question because you're asking why I'm based on a claim to fight HDZ corruption? On the basis of the results of Mr MP and on the basis of the fact that the negotiations for EU entry were blocked in 2009, that we have made efforts to unblock and that we have opened and closed all the remaining chapters including the most difficult that only Croatia, Chapter 23 concerning the judiciary and fundamental rights. Therefore, all those conditions, all those standards, all those requirements for reforms that were asked of Croatia, we made thanks to the HDZ-led government. Thus, the results are both in the fight against corruption and in the fight against crime, but also in the punishment of war crimes. And that's a fact that you can't dispute in any way, Mr. Representative. Why are we talking, and that's true, that you're not ready and your SDP party is not ready to fight corruption until the last breath, the facts say. It's just because of a few of the examples we've set here. So, and the book that speaks of your coalition partner's path and these examples from Rijeka, many examples, and here are the questions from the representative lady whose husband normally doesn't pay rent to the city and normally to pay the city, and that's all normal to you. And it is of course normal for you not to solve these cases that are actually higher in the air, which are whispered about, but here are your colleagues from the bench in their interviews which represent the "Kukuriku Coalition" programme, clearly talking about the fight against corruption against everyone but you. Because it is clearly stated, so here I will once again quote Mr. Linic whom your party president has never denied, who says, "We will take good care of what Bajic is doing, what the courts are doing, and therefore we will decide whether if we come to power to replace the Attorney General or not to replace him." Finally, Mr. Representative, when HDZ again proposed Mladen Bajic at the head of the State's Attorney's Office at the moment when many of the problems of course concern the HDZ, which is why this party, which I am proud of today, bear the greatest burden, you were absolutely not prepared for this kind of fight and did not give your trust to Mladen Bajic. And yet now you're texting him, and we're investigating, so we're in the HDZ that's being investigated and all of what we've done is the most we've touched because we've been honest and open in the fight against corruption, we've given him support. Therefore, I could list a lot of cases, and the fact that it is normal for you to have one of the chiefs of staff is a person who has damaged the City of Zagreb to do nothing in Holding, that you do nothing in the City of Zagreb, that debt is accumulated, all talk about many facts that are actually known to the general public, but nothing is done, because you threaten that the fight against corruption can only be fought against HDZ, but against members of SDP, HNS and certainly "Kukuriku coalition" does not. And I'm saying that this fight makes sense, ladies and gentlemen, because I'm sure even on the basis of this credible HDZ struggle, we'll get citizens' trust because citizens are not blind and aren't deaf, they hear what they're saying, but they see and they remember what they did. During the time you ruled Croatia, I do not remember that there was an honest and open struggle and that any of you against the SDP officials who were later discovered, and were high-ranking in certain ministries, I will mention the MUP, that he has ever said any word of confirmation that if he is guilty he should be held accountable. Therefore, Mr. Representative, the threats that I am telling us very clearly and openly, which you are giving us through various interviews, threats that your party chief has also said, threats and falses that he has often said, often speaking to the HDZ qualifications, clearly give us the right to conclude the SDP is not ready to fight corruption, HDZ is not only ready but has proved it. And he proved it today, and he'll prove it for the next four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78192	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78193	Madam Prime Minister, you've waved your hands so much that your gesticulation is stronger than your articulation. You see, you keep saying you should knock on the door of the SDP, your hand will fall off, there's no crime behind that door. You can knock by tomorrow. That's right. And the crime is right under your nose. And you won't convince the citizens that all politicians are the same by, say, Mr. Karamarko raising false charges, criminal charges against my colleagues, Tonin Picula, a colleague of Mršić, and that the DORH normally rejects it. When the SDP comes, and it wants to come to power, then we'll say things differently, it won't be a political dictatorship to conduct investigations, it won't be a political dictatorship to file criminal charges, that, yes, Mrs. Kosor, that's what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78194	Thank you. Anyway, it looks like we've got a great and pink future ahead of us. It's nice to hear that everyone wants to, just don't let it be as selective as most or less so far. Thank you. Let's move on, they'll ask Mr. Representative Milivo Schwartz.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78195	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When I listen to this on the left and all these accusations and the story of how someone is honest and good, I would remind you of one environment where you ruled it until the last local elections. Where the small Kukurik coalition was in power, so I have to mention this beautiful town of Zlatar that has experienced a not-beautiful situation but a little things change for the better. HNS's Chief of Staff, Zlatar, has committed the city beyond the limit of a certain law, because of large and illegal debts, it is impossible for the city's administration to function normally as well as all the institutions that depend on it. There was a situation that I couldn't pay my aunts in kindergarten, that there were no public lighting and many seemingly small things but great when we look at their needs. It led to a financial blockade of three city budgets, which is about 35 million kuna. It is known that the mayor is being prosecuted, which is still pending. My question is, Madam Prime Minister, it is known that the city services after the departure of the HNS mayor and these authorities have functioned and that the city of Zlatar is slowly coming out of the financial blockade and a little bit of living, please answer us for us and for the public how you have succeeded and what has been done to repair the great damage that has been done under the leadership of the HNS Mayor and his crew. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78196	Prime Minister Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78197	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, so you said well, I can really say that at the moment when you were both a representative and Mr. Jarnjak and many others from that neighborhood came to talk about the situation that was in Zlatar, she was more than tragic. Because there was no street lighting, and I remember then that Mr. Mayor was currently mentioning that he was afraid because there was not even one light bulb near the bank or the mail, that he was afraid of robbery, that people were afraid to move around the city at night, and all that happened with all those problems from kindergarten still, I can't understand that someone so destroyed the city that there's literally no three aunts in kindergarten. So, the situation was more than terrible and we, as Government, managed to help as much stabilize the situation at the moment and thank the mayor for the efforts, for the wisdom he showed, the situation was better we helped from the budget reserve, so it was hard that the government had to help from the budget reserve but also in other ways through different ministries. Mr. Representative, the important thing is that it's better now, it's important that the situation is fixed. The fact is, as you well said, against the former mayor of the CNS, a procedure has been initiated. Of course, it was on the cover, it wasn't on the cover at all, it was in the media for a short time, one moment everything went out as we know it, because of course probably not the media, one big part of the media doesn't think it should be followed in any particular way. We'll see what the verdict will be but certainly a huge evil has been done, but as far as we're concerned in politics is shown in the town of Zlatar the model of governance and the model of governance. So, without any responsibility but Zlatar, of course, is not the only one, look at the Varazdin County and the whole situation in Varazdin County, but look again at Rijeka where the unintended, peaceful souls spend their resources without anyone blinking, and without anyone from that political option deeming it a bad thing. I think that all our efforts and in helping Zlatar to get on his feet can help change the way people who get the chance to lead the city, and I will certainly mention here the fiscal responsibility law that now applies to the mayor of Zlatar and every other city, every chief and every minister I repeat once again, and it will not break into the public opposition here in the Croatian Parliament, members and members of the opposition did not want to raise their hand and did not want to give support, so the fiscal responsibility law that can take place in one word and it is responsible. And in the case of the city of Zlatar, it's a matter of responsibility and a lot of worse things, and I welcome all the citizens and citizens of the city of Zlatar, and I wish them all the best, and I believe that we will see each other soon. I believe there will be opportunities to come and talk about what the government is investing in the progress of this beautiful city over the next four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78198	Thank you. Mr. Millyov Schwartz, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78199	So I have to express my satisfaction with the answer, thank you for your help given to Zlatar on behalf of all the citizens of Zlatar and on behalf of the leadership that we have to admit that we have a very agile team right now to ensure that Zlatar compensates for his problem over the past seven and eight years, when I have to mention that this leadership of the former under the leadership of the CNS did not ask for even one co-financing programme from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it was that they were simply blocked and we expect this moment and some things are being realized at this time and I think all this will help with your great engagement and support that the Zlatarčans see the better situation. And I repeat the call to Zlatar has been given and the Goldilocks are expecting you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78200	Thank you. And as a last resort, he will ask Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78201	Dear Madam President, you are almost daily exposed and here you are now in the Croatian Assembly with nervous and increasingly aggressive criticisms that are in the service of the Kukuriku coalition or some imaginary singers who are singing less and less like crows. When it comes to SDP's honesty, I would only mention whether it is enough when the leader, and from the SDP comes Holding admits that the citizens of the City of Zagreb have been stolen by the SDP for 50 million kuna. Or when the leader of the SDP in Karlovac goes back to prison, etc. However, it is obvious that in the Kukurik coalition and its supporters it bothers you to visit every inch of the Croatian country and that in direct contact with citizens you assure them and give them optimism about economic growth and better social tomorrow. It bothers them that I can't deny you the fulfilled promises you made, and I'll just remind them of some, which is that we'll be up to 6. The month ends negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU and this has been achieved. Maintaining the level of labour and social rights, then regularly paying wages and pensions regardless of this global crisis that shakes the whole world, you have introduced working courts that have been a union dream for 20 years, you have reduced non-taxable payments, the gross social product has grown from minus to plus, the Brijuni project should be the pride of Croatia, regardless of the low blows that we witness every day you did not give in to this attitude and about the zero tolerance rate on corruption. And I could say a lot more, but I'm just going to point out one more example that might be relevant for the SDP, which is that over the past 8 months this year, a total of 132 thousand 159 people have gone into the world of work, which is 30% more than last year or in seasonal jobs that employs 33,000 people, which is 18% more than last year. And my question in the end would be, how much an impact on the work of both you and your government and the further activities of this government would have this kind of directing of bribery from the ranks of political insatiables and their prone media.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78202	Madam Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78203	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Well, mostly very directly I'll answer. Most of the time, she didn't have any influence because we spent all our ideas doing a huge job. As you know, we would have resolved the deblockation, and you yourself mentioned whether the deblockation of the negotiations started in talks with the Slovenian government, and when we proposed to Parliament an arbitration agreement which, after 18 years of age, was supposed to solve an unresolved issue, unblock negotiations, then certainly the opposition was strongly opposed. Remember, however, the debate here in Parliament where we are accused of treason and high treason, but also where high EU officials, the European Commission has been declared to be small mice, etc. who should run to their holes. However, if we had not been so persistent and had not yet known that the goal should be achieved regardless of the lunches, regardless of the humiliations, I am very sorry that at the end of this term I can say that my... mandate but also the mandate of my colleagues and colleagues in these two years was actually followed daily by an incredible hatred by the opposition. I'm extremely sorry. Not for ourselves or for us in the government because as you can see, we could handle it, but because I think we could without that hatred, without humiliating, without often telling lies that we could do more. Why am I saying that? Here's what I'm going to say about the Labour Act. So, the programme of economic recovery that we are implementing has, among other things, foreseen amendments to the Labour Act. That's very important, we were all alone here. In fact, remember that when we proposed this to Parliament, there was a union action, which unions have the right to do, but the first to jump and sign those demands, that the Labour Act did not change until forever, was Zoran Milanovic. When we proposed amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, which are all EU countries where we will enter thanks to this government and you in the ruling coalition, when we proposed it, of course the opposition said no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Then there was a message from the SDP lines, when we came back, which, of course, is neither true nor will this happen first, nor will this happen second. Therefore, it would have been much easier if there had been a constructive opposition and that projects such as I will repeat the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest measured, thus measuring the conditions for closing Chapter 23 without which the opposition could not have supported. It would be much easier to introduce order if we had received support for at least one law, and this is the Fiscal Responsibility Act because it requires responsibility at all levels and responsibilities in every form. So that's something we're up for. I'm a lot of people all over Croatia. I think anyone who's been following for a while what I've been doing for the past few years as a member of the government knows that I've always worked a lot, that with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, she's been with people every weekend, with lawyers on government projects, and I'm doing it today. And that certainly no one will forbid me, even though as you can see, there is such an effort. And I'm sorry about the double standards, you know. When I travel or my colleagues travel, then we get miles every day, how much it costs, etc. I'll just say it because it's facts. When the president of the country travels, then no one counts on him how much he spent miles, gas, etc. The president must travel as well. The president must be in Dubrovnik, must be in Osijek, the president must hang out with the citizens. Here in Dubrovnik with the mayor and it was a birthday party, and it was all really nice and impressive, but I've got ladies and gentlemen measuring everything. It's not good, it's not good because it creates double standards and introduces some practice that one can do anything, and others can't do anything, and even do their job. Here, Mr. Representative, in conclusion, I would say that if I was still traveling I would continue to travel, so it's my job, to be with people, to listen to what they say, to listen and to hear, to hear what people say. And what they've been saying to me all over Croatia lately, but they're telling us, too, don't be afraid, and it's especially important to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78204	Unfortunately, even today, it has proven here that these illusionists from this coalition, in fact, as I call the coalition for funerals, weddings and moaning, and now you might say... , they do not care about serious debates on current economic and social issues but rather about the depravation and attack of HDZ and this government. [[You don't understand.]] But I have to say that these ovaries in the Kukurik coalition obviously don't wear healthy eggs, they wear masculine eggs, and that's why they gargle like ravens and don't sing like singers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78205	And as the last one to ask a question at this session is Madam Representative Vesna Buterin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78206	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister with a member and members of the government. I'm referring my question to Mr. Davorin Mlakar. We are witnesses of the ruthless and very powerful fight against corruption in Croatia, and the prime minister always stresses that there are no untouchables and that there must be no untouchables. Just now, Mr. Jurjevic said there is no crime and corruption behind the door of the SDP, and what I am about to say is one example of what is being done where the SDP is in power. So, as part of one of USKOK's anti-corruption actions, a director of the Business Space Directorate in the City of Rijeka was arrested. The media reported that it was a case of setting up a business space tender for similar persons, she was assigned one month detention and after all the witnesses were examined she was released to defend herself from freedom. So the principal is suspected of corruption and setting up tenders to the business premises she runs. She was detained and spent time in police custody for preventing the influence of witnesses. And what happened in the City of Rivers after your witnesses were questioned? Believe it or not, not only was the Director's office returned to the City of Rijeka but it was even returned to the principalship post, I would say almost that she continued from detention to assign business premises. Instead of being suspended in the City of Rijeka, they suspended the decision on its suspension. Of course everyone is innocent until proven guilty, but this is a very sensitive and specific matter. It's like there's untouchable in the river. That's why I ask you, Mr. Minister, if there is any possibility that this principle of untouchables can be prevented in Rijeka but also in all other cities if this situation is repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78207	Thank you. Mr. Mlakar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78208	Thank you very much. I'm going to try to stay in that part of the answer where we have information on this particular case that you've listed to the distinguished MPs. So it is true that there was a procedure against the person who is the director of the Business Objects Directorate in the City of Rijeka. It is also true that BUSKOK conducted an investigation and that I assume that, due to a reasonable suspicion of committing a criminal offence, it has designated a detention which has probably ceased with the termination of some of the conditions, which is this influence on witnesses or the possibility of re-enactment of the crime. And now we come to the point where official legislation and what is prescribed by the Law on civil servants in local or regional self-government. Here I am going to allow myself the freedom to say that the provisions of this law regarding an officer are somewhat less favourable than the provisions of the Civil Service Act have now been amended. So, apart from the fact that those holders of responsibilities in the local self-government, what we can do about this law is that their working relationship is regulated under this law, and this law which I am now talking about is the law on local officials, or officials in local and regional self-government, says that a person cannot be removed from the service or that no decision can be taken to distance from the service, which you probably have implicated in your own question, without a criminal case being brought against such a person. And by the way, like this case you cited, there were two similar cases in the City of Rijeka where body managers launched procedures and removed persons from the service but were returned by the official court because of the fact that the criminal proceedings had not yet begun. The criminal proceedings shall begin by confirming the indictment and, until that moment, those persons shall not be legally removed from the service. I suppose that's why this one, in this particular case, was returned to the place from which it was processed. But believe and we are confident, no matter what these actions may take long, that this procedure guarantees the state of rule of law, guarantees the protection of your official rights so long as the prescribed conditions for you to answer in such a case for something you had no right to do. Unlike the Law on civil servants, where corrupt acts are specifically mentioned and why the state service ceases by law, there are no such provisions in the law on local or local self-government officials, but I believe that with a similar solution that exists for civil servants, we will propose that labour relations be resolved in local self-government. The additional problem is that since local self-government has been directly elected, these instruments that I speak of are worth working and acting as local officials but cannot be applied against officials. They are responsible only to their voters and test their mandate every four years in local elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78209	Mrs. Buterin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78210	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for your reply. In fact, I would say that this person is still deciding on the area for which he is also a suspect and I would say that this is another example of how we are not all in the same parties when it comes to fighting corruption and crime, but this is also an example of how in some parties, in this case in the SDP, the fight against crime and the corruption of the door are still very, very tightly locked. In addition, these days we have announcements from the Kukuriku coalition that if we won power, which, of course, won't be 80 percent of civil servants subject to dismissal and dismissal. They announce that staying in the leadership positions will only be possible for those civil servants for whom they so assess. I'm just wondering if what I've just set is one of the criteria for their assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78211	Thank you all for your patience. We've really been sitting here for over four hours, almost four and a half hours, so here's the ladies and gentlemen of the morning's actual morning, and at 3:30. The session will continue at 3:30 p.m. with a agenda report on the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78212	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session. It's on the agenda - 1. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. You got the report in the mail. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr. Damir Sesvecan, to take his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78213	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. So the first report on the request for authorisation to launch a criminal proceedings against Vedran Rožić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament. At the 46th session held on 28 July 2011, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the County State Attorney in Split from 22 July 2011, sent by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Vedran Rožić, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed crimes of abuse of position and authority as set out in the article... Article 1(1), (3) and (4) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr Vedran Rožić is a representative in the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same may not be initiated or prosecuted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed that between the meetings of the Assembly the decision on the above is taken by the Mandate-Immunity Commission, by the fact that its decision must be subsequently confirmed by the Croatian Parliament at the first next session. As the Croatian Parliament therefore held a summer break in the session prescribed by the Constitution, the Mandate-Immunity Commission is on the basis of Article 76(5) of the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously with 7 votes for a decision: approval is granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Vedran Rožić at the request of the State Attorney's Office in Split number DOK89/00 as of 22 July 2011, sent through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by Act No. CRIDO1176/11 of 26 July 2011, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed offences of abuse of office and authority referred to in Article 337(1), (3) and (4) of the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78214	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. They'll vote when the conditions are met. Get to the next report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78215	So the next report is a request for approval to initiate criminal proceedings against Ivo Sanader, a representative at the Croatian Parliament. At the 47th session held on 5 September 2011, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime from 31 August 2011, through the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by means of a act of 31 August 2011 to the President of the Croatian Parliament to grant authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Ivo Sanader of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed a criminal offence of abuse of the position and authority referred to in Articles 337(1) and 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the non-depreciation of wartime profits and crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation. Mr Ivo Sanader is represented in the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament, and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same may not be initiated or prosecuted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed that a decision on the application for authorisation for the initiation of a criminal procedure shall be taken by the Mandate-Immunity Commission, with the decision being subsequently confirmed by the Croatian Parliament at the next session. As the Croatian Parliament held a summer break in the session prescribed by the Constitution, the Mandate-Immunity Commission is based on Article 76(5). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 8 votes for a decision: approval shall be granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against representatives of Ivo Sanader at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. KUS48/11 of 31 August 2011 sent by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by Act No. KRIDO1334/11-1 of 31 August 2011 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed a criminal offence of abuse of position and authority as set out in Article 337(1) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on the non-depreciation of wartime profits and crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78216	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78217	Mr. Vice President, the chairman of the Mandate-Immunity Committee. This Decision states that authorisation is granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against representatives of Ivo Sanader at the request of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, the number of which, since 23 September 2011, has been sent through the State's Attorney's Office, also since 23 September 2011, because of a reasonable suspicion that he has committed the crime of taking bribes referred to in Article 347(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Penalty law. As an agent, I am interested in what the procedure is and what it is to receive bribes, given that several affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78218	My colleague Vinkovic, you now, will now come up with this next report that you are now talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78219	Okay, they didn't give me this, but here's the thing. So I'm curious.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78220	Well, then, when this comes next, you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78221	And here I am, as far as I heard this was for war profit, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78222	Well, that's legal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78223	Let me finish. So, me as an agent, since there are no mention of what work it is, since, with the name of the gentleman or the other captain with the little vitre of Eve Sanader, I would like to ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to explain exactly what work it is and what amount it is. I would ask him to immediately and answer the question whether he was being removed from his representative Sanader's immunity as former HDZ president or former Croatian Prime Minister, and I can explain this further, which means that the former HDZ president did not inform his entire party about what he was doing while he was president of the HDZ, or that he did not inform and give the vote a certain decision while he was the former prime minister of the Croatian government, and most of the Croatian government today in the Croatian government. So I suggest that by removing Evi Sanader's immunity, we remove the immunity of the entire HDZ, but also to the entire Croatian government. And I'm giving my immunity for free, so you don't even have to decide about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78224	It's about removing someone else's immunity. It's about removing immunity from Agent Eve Sanader. There are no other suggestions. Your initiative is not based on anything. You can't, but you know this is crossing a little bit of a line, right, to discuss the immunity of HDZ members, that's a little bit over the line. No words, no words. It's one day, one special day, so it's worth taking care of. Is there anyone else interested in discussing this issue? I'm closing the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78225	Next report also
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78226	Now the president will also give you an explanation on these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78227	Okay, then I can answer first. Therefore, the Mandate-Immunity Commission does not enter into the measure of matters so that it may comment on the indictment or any other request of the State's Attorney's Office. That is why this report is also conceived in this way as it has been envisaged, it has been tolerated for many years. So, of the likely independence of the Croatian state. So it's the usual way. If we were to talk about what case you're looking for, and what the State's Attorney's Office wrote in the indictment, then we would go into the measure of things, and we are neither a court nor an investigative body, but we are a Parliament that simply allows the competent state bodies, so to the State's attorney, to do its own thing, and therefore an agent equates with all the other citizens, nothing else. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78228	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this third report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78229	Therefore, at the 48th session held on 26 September 2011, the Council of State, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime of 23 September 2011 discussed the request by the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Ivo Sanader in the Croatian Parliament on grounds of suspicion that he committed a criminal offence against the customs duties referred to in Article 347(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Penalty law. Ivo Sanader is in 6. Meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed that a decision on the application for authorisation for the initiation of a criminal procedure shall be taken by the Mandate-Immunity Commission, by the subsequent confirmation of the decision by the Croatian Parliament at the next session. Following the discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission shall, on the basis of Article 76(5). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 6 votes for the decision, are hereby approved for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs Ivo Sanader, at the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, US-145/11, as of 23 September 2011, by Act No. KRI-DO-1447/11 of 23 September 2011 on the grounds of suspicion that he has committed the crime of customs duties referred to in Article 347(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Penalty law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78230	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78231	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament as a representative, I will vote for the removal of immunity, and I believe that MPs should have no immunity at all, but that is another story. But I didn't get an answer to my question again. Agent Sanader, as far as I know, is in one facility where there's a limited movement called Remetinec. I am asking the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to simply say, not to read all this, which led to the State Attorney's Office or the Office for the Prevention of Corruption, but to this that he committed a criminal offence of taking bribes to whom he was bound, to which institution, from whom he received and to what it is related. And I repeat my question that is very important, is immunity being removed from the former HDZ president or is immunity being removed from the former prime minister of the Croatian government? Because all this time and HDZ, and God damn it and government members pretend they didn't know anything and didn't vote for anything. And that's why this question is very important. Whether it is to remove immunity from the former HDZ president, in this way you can amnesty the entire HDZ. I don't mean to say that he suffers from amnesia, but you can't, on the other hand, amnesty of the Croatian government current that can't suffer from amnesia,... I would ask you to be cultural enough to be a gentleman from Dubrovnik a little more cultured or to play a little guitar. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So either the Croatian government that can't claim to know anything because most of the ministers, here you still have cards with their names sitting in the government of Captain Little Vitre Ivo Sanader, whom Mr. Representative used to bow down not to say he didn't do any other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78232	Okay, I'll answer that question for you, because this is clear and clear. Immunities to Croatian Parliament MP Ivo Sanader, not according to the former prime minister or former HDZ president, are sought, but to the MP. And it's required by an authorized body, it's required the removal of immunity just as an authorized body requested the removal of immunity from you when you were charged with one crime. That's what you're looking for against the MPs, that's the answer to that question. Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78233	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Each time a similar subject is spoken of, it should be determined that the Assembly is not a place where no criminal liability is determined or prejudged. In criminal proceedings Ivo Sanader is charged as an individual, not as president of the Croatian Democratic Community, nor as Prime Minister and in criminal proceedings Ivo Sanader will answer as an individual. What is a place in the assembly is to pollemise and determine someone's political responsibility. In which case political responsibility does not necessarily mean that there is a criminal responsibility. Politically Ivo Sanader is responsible as the former president of the Croatian government and former president of the Croatian Democratic Union and the cost of political responsibility of the government and that party is to lose the election. How and how political responsibility will be or perhaps a reward from voters will be decided by voters in the elections. It is up to us as their representatives in the Assembly to warn us of some facts. In this particular case, it is the facts of the privatisation of INA and that of the second INA-MOL contract. As you know, we've been discussing this for a long time, we've had the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, and that's what the Committee has come up with two opinions. What it says in the indictment coincides more with the opposition's opinion than with the opinion of the ruling majority, although in some way we will give greater importance to the opinion of the state's attorney and USKOK as an independent body and not to the parliamentary clubs as well as to the biased institutions, then it turns out that the political us of the opposition were more right than the ruling coalition, it is again a matter of political match and determining someone's political responsibility. What I'm saying is that it's obvious that citizen Ivo Sanader is being defended in the process by saying that some of the provisions of the contract came out of the first 2003 contract. Years between INA and MOL during the SDP government. It's his right to defend a citizen like Ivo Sanader. However, in this way the political community is still being defended by the Croatian Democratic Union, it is also their right and it is our duty to warn that it is wrong. On page 21. Charges at 2. And three. The state's attorney's paragraph discussed the defense of Ivo Sanader and disproved the evidence that points to the contrary. Therefore, all those who continue to benefit from the INA privatisation in the 2003 case. They deny the State's Attorney's office and defend themselves in the same way as Ivo Sanader, so it's their turn to share his fate politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78234	Thank you very much. A colleague as you have rightly noted here is a personal criminal responsibility to remove immunity for citizen Ivo Sanader, not political and not moral responsibility, the assembly is not for this place. The Croatian Democratic Union has politically determined itself towards its former president and the judicial authorities will be determined within its scope. I'm closing the debate,
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78235	And now we're going to decide on the debated and closed agenda points. We have the first Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Vedran Rožić from the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament prescribes that the immunity of the representatives between the meeting of the Assembly shall be decided by the Mandate-Immunity Commission with approval... at the first next session. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the basis of these provisions of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I hereby approve the decision granting authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Vedran Rožić, representative in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the State's Attorney's Office, Split number DOK8900 25. July 2011. Years. Please, let's get involved and vote. Who's to confirm the approval of the mandate-immunity commission? Score. The Mandate-Immunity Commission's confirmation of the decision was voted by 97 MPs, 2 were abstentions and nothing was against it. Further report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on granting authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivo Sanader of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed, Articles 27 and 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to decide on the immunity of MPs between the Assembly's meetings a mandate-immunity committee with the approval of the Parliament at the first next session. On the basis of these provisions of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I am giving confirmation of decisions granting authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivo Sanader of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Please state the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Thank you. The approval of the Mandate-Immunity Commission was accepted by 96 votes to 1 abstention and 1 against. Next, let's go to the report of the mandate-immunity commission to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Ivo Sanader in the Croatian Parliament and the debate is closed, Article 27. And 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament prescribes that the immunity of MPs between meetings of the Assembly shall be decided by the Mandate-Immunity Commission with the approval of the Parliament at the first next session. On the basis of these provisions of the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, it gives the decision to grant authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against Ivo Sanader of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion to confirm the decision. Score. The decision was unanimously confirmed by 96 votes. I am moving to the agenda point - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission President of the Committee Mr. Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78237	So I don't think there's any need to read the reports now, reports have been received by representatives on benches, so it's two reports, I'm just going to say one thing about the request to grant a criminal trial against MP Petar Mlinarić, and the other is a report on the granting of authorisation to launch a criminal proceedings against MP Zeljko Jovanovic. In both cases, it is a criminal act of slander.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78238	Thank you. I am opening a debate on both reports, for Mr Mlinarić and for Mr Jovanovic. Is there any interest in the debate? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. Then, the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, we have a decision to deny the authorisation to open proceedings before the Municipal Court in Vukovar in the case against representative Petar Mlinaric on the legal case of Prosecutor Željko Saba for the criminal part of the slander referred to in Article 200(2). Penalty law. So here we vote on the adoption of the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. Please, let's get involved and vote because, Memedi. Score. 75 votes for, two abstentions and nothing against. Then, the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission initiating the criminal proceedings against Dr. Željko Jovanovic, representative at the Croatian Parliament. And here's the proposal, he didn't get the necessary majority to remove immunity, because it was four votes for and five against. We are now voting on the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission whether we accept it or not. Berislave. Nothing registered. What? It's not. Now it is. The result? Therefore, no report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, 65 votes for, 3 abstentions, and 9 for. So 69 against, 3 abstentions and 9 for and immediately put to the vote, we've actually already voted in some way, but who's in favour of removing immunity from MP Željko Jovanovic. Please vote who's in favour, who's against, who's abstention? Take it off now. The result? This decision to remove immunity to Mr. MP was voted by the majority vote 67 for, 3 abstentions and 7 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78240	moving to the next point 2. Proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 875 The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Management Pavle Maticic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78241	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament may, for a period of no more than one year, authorise the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in its work, except those relating to the development of the constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure, detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. 7 October 2011 In the course of the year, the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia ceases to apply to the regulation to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section of the Croatian Parliament, thus suspending the government's power to regulate certain issues in its legislative delegation in accordance with the Constitution and the said law. It is therefore proposed to adopt a new Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. This power shall be conferred on the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 1. The proposed law would have a period when the Croatian Parliament is not sitting under the Constitution, which is of 15. December 2011. Until 15. January 2012. And 15. July 2012 Until 15. September 2012. Years. This power shall also be conferred on the Commission under Article 2. The proposed Law would also have the government during the period from the date on which the Croatian Parliament's term of office ended until the first meeting of the newly elected Croatian Parliament. As things stand now, the government would have had this power from the day of the Croatian Parliament's disbandment and then at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet. Furthermore, as the proposal for a law stated by the government has very rarely been used by the government so that it has adopted only one regulation under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78242	Thank you. Committees, legislation, constitution, rules of procedure and political system? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78243	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Proposer, Representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, colleagues and fellow MPs. So this is what I would say is almost the traditional way of reacting to the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the Constitution and there are no new developments. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament is in accordance with Article 88 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The important constitution can indeed be delegated to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate matter from the part-circular and jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament. That's not controversial. For many years now, this proposal has not been disputed either. But I do have a few restrictions that the government has called and that's fine. Therefore, the Government cannot change human rights and fundamental freedoms by regulations, the position of national rights or the position of minorities, the electoral system cannot change, the structure and the detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government, with the restriction that the regulation can still last, this is now important, that the regulation can only last for the duration of this law. So, if the regulation was passed in the 8th month, and in 7.10, the deadline of this law, which is now in force and the regulation ends in 7.10, is where we are creating problems. So now we have one regulation on the price of gas or the government's authority to regulate the price of gas to some entities. And that's what the government does in a way that changes the law, and the hierarchy is opposed to the government changing the law, and the Constitution says it can edit differently, not change the law. So, within a year, the government can edit the matter we gave her under legal authority, not change the law. We have total legal uncertainty, the government will change the law, and it says it changes the provision of that and that member of the law, and it seems completely logical, but it should last permanently while the law is going on. But it would be logical if this regulation had come with a proposal to amend the law. Yes, yes, that is why it was not necessary to amend the law by a regulation, but rather to tell the Government that the gas team and the team will be in its jurisdiction and propose immediately a law that will be valid permanently and have permanent authority to the Government. "De lege pherenda", they know what it means, so it should have been resolved, not that the government in just don't know anything, or I won't say anything, traditionally no matter what it is, comes in and says, I'm changing the law and thus disrupts the hierarchy of regulations, but it also disrupts that the Parliament can make decisions that change the law, so the amendments to the law are in the power of the Parliament. Ever since I came out, I think it's very important to mention the hierarchy of regulations again. It's very important that we stick to it. Why? We have recently been in the pre-election environment and in the pre-election mood to say so, we hear from the leaders of certain democratic institutions that they will do something or impose on someone. It's a derogation of the rule of law, so it's either the Prime Minister or a parliamentary representative. We and our Constitution and according to our constitutional obligation must develop a legal state and a democratic system, and the rule of law implies that democratic bodies act by their own initiative, by order of the law, so the rule of law, and not by order of the higher body, the lower body, even if it is the Prime Minister. According to the rule of law, the rule of law operates. That is why it is very important for these powers to stick to the hierarchy of regulations, not to interfere with each other, because this implies the democratic responsibility of each body to act in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the law, not by order or at the request of a higher body or some more instance. So, of course, we support the adoption of this law, we also accept a report on the government's regulation on the price of gas, but it is important to note that democracy is only a whole, not when one works, even if it was the Parliament's intention but by the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78244	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78245	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at the very beginning, I'm going to say that the HDZ Representatives Club of course supports this bill. We have already had the opportunity to hear, therefore, the usual practice of adopting this law, in order to give the Government a legislative body to the executive authority to lay down regulations with the legal force and that certain specific questions can be regulated on the basis of the Constitution and constitutional provisions at those time intervals or when the Croatian Parliament does not meet. Therefore, the constitutional basis or basis for the adoption of this law is just cited in Article 88 of the Croatian Constitution, which literally states that the Croatian Parliament can empower the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at the most in time of a year, to regulate certain issues in its activities by regulations. Therefore, it regulates certain issues from its part-round, with the exception of those relating to the development of the constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, structure and detour and way of working of state bodies and local self-government. It is also very important to note, and this is also the provision of the Constitution, so paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Regulation, on the basis of the legal authority, that the regulations adopted under the legal authority cease to apply within a period of one year from the date of the power granted, unless the Croatian Parliament decides otherwise. And here it is, every year, the almost identical issues are raised "disputed" question, whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia can intervene on the basis of a legislative delegation, when, in what situations, to what extent it does so and whether it is all expensive in accordance with or consistent with the provisions of the Constitution and the law. No doubt from the practice so far, and not only from the content but from the number and character of the regulations that there are absolutely no constitutional derogations or that these regulations that the Government adopts in these time periods are in line or that they are based on the provisions of the Constitution, Article 88, which regulates the constitutional legal institute of the legislative delegation, but also on the legislation that we adopt here in Parliament's practice every year to allow us to show the smooth work of the Government in those situations where the Croatian Parliament does not meet, and when it is necessary to intervene with the tax-based areas when the government can and should intervene as it was with this regulation, and we have heard just before the presentation of the honourable representative of Mr Lek that it happened only once and when the limits of the price of gas were established. It should also be noted that the parliamentary procedure has entered exactly the law, regardless of the regulation, so amendments and additions to that law that will regulate and legal that matter in the manner that the Government intervened with its regulation for the time when the Parliament did not sit. So, I think we'll all agree together that there are no constitutional or legal obstacles to bringing this law here, so one absolutely specific law. It is a constitutional legal institute of a legislative delegation which will allow us, by assessment, if necessary by the Government of these specific areas, therefore not in all but the Constitution has laid down Article 88 in which and when it can intervene, and in the extreme line that there are no disturbances, especially in the economy and when the Government assesses that it is necessary, useful and good to do. Therefore, in the constitutional practice of all modern European countries, this is not, therefore, any particularity or particularity of our Constitution, the Croatian Constitution or our constitutional provisions, it is simply valid both in constitutional law theory and in the practice of the functioning of Parliament, the executive government, or government, which is one good, useful and smart solution, and therefore all the relations of parliaments and governments function in such a way. Of course there are constitutional fences and legal fences, this institute must not be misused, it must always be used as prescribed by the Constitution. And I would like to point out in the end that the practice of us is behind it, therefore the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government did not occur if there was no disturbance in Parliament's relationship, the executive government therefore, that the Constitution and the law were respected in each situation and that was in the past period of time, so we can analyse the regulation that was adopted by the basis of this law. And here I am not saying again, we also have in the parliamentary procedure a proposal to amend and supplement this very law, which has been amended in part of the said regulation, and it is not burning or it has to be noted that, throughout the year, we have only one such regulation throughout this observed and analysed period that this is the institution, so the bill that absolutely needs to be adopted, supported and one institute that has been properly entrenched in our constitutional practice and that the government has always reached out for this instrument when it has assessed that it is necessary, but always and I always, finally, stress, always in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78246	Thank you. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78247	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-HSU club will support this bill. The constitutional basis is perfectly clear and there is nothing controversial about it. I would just like to remind myself that the HNS-HSU club welcomed the government last year, I would call it abstention from the regulation, especially a number of regulations, because it is essentially an extraordinary measure, one of which should only be extremely rarely used. And here we must express our satisfaction that this year too we can conclude that the government only did this once, that we have only one regulation regarding preventing the increase in gas prices by distributors. And what we have already been told and what we would like to underline is that once the government adopts a regulation, it is necessary to seek to translate it into a permanent legal solution as soon as possible. We also have a proposal for such a law on the table, the only question is when we will discuss it and when we will vote on it. What I would like to say, however, and what is not mentioned in the previous two debates is something we have been insisting on for a number of years, and that is not essentially how it is done, and that is the order with which we are essentially discussing certain points. My colleagues and colleagues, wouldn't it be much more logical if we had a report first for the past period, that this report got green light and that we then extended the government to work in the same way because we were satisfied with the process and work so far. This is how we're going to have the 25th item of the agenda report, today we have a new legislative proposal, so it seems to me that we've got a little bit of a mix of order that we could go along with and we should go to make it clear to individual representatives and citizens who are following us more clearly than this way is going to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78248	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78249	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. It seems to me that like last year when we discussed the same issue, so the proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament with the final draft of the law and it seems to me that the debate was not to say the same as this. And then Mr. Leco was just saying that this should actually be settled permanently by one law because it is quite clear that the Croatian Parliament does not, according to the Rules of Procedure, work from 15 July to 15 September and from 15 December to 15 January. So it's three months, it's three months or 90 days at least. Furthermore, between the meeting of the Croatian Parliament in the days of the computer and when we were to add together, and our statistics on this can give precise details of how much it was held by the Croatian Parliament and how many days it was between the sessions and what the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament had foreseen, these holidays are summer to say both winter or how you want Christmas-new year in that case it can be said that the Government could regulate by regulations what is under the Constitution, I am clearly not saying that anything was done which was not in accordance with the Constitution but almost half of the terms of office of four years, i.e. So for two years, for more than two years, regulations regulate certain issues from above all the domains of the economy and what everything here is written by what the Government can do. So, the current economic policy and then use the powers at a time when the Croatian Parliament is not sitting and I say more than half of the mandate, certainly. Well, now, if every year, it was seven last year. It's a October. Therefore, this regulation, i.e. the proposal, was passed legally until 7. A October to be valid, to last, and now again. Once again a year, we will have to run this same debate again, spend a certain amount of time on this High House, and have some of these proposals again, instead of having this once-permanent discussion, so I have no objection to the permanent regulation of this matter, that the government can regulate it in accordance with the Constitution, so that the problem from saying the economy at a time when the Parliament does not meet. Is it so hard for us to pass a law here that will then be valid for me to say permanently, but every year we go to a debate like this? Of course I'm going to say this one technical law, something that can't and can't be adopted, so the HDSB Club will also raise for this bill. But we also have a proposal to get rid of this matter by a permanent law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78250	Thank you. One correction, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78251	Well, my colleague Grubisic incorrectly said that the bill's proposal means that the government would, given that Parliament sessions do not physically last for a week in meetings, etc., so that the government could then pass the regulation by the basis of this law for almost half a year. So it's just not true. It is necessary to read a law saying that the Government has the power to adopt regulations at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is of 15. December to 15. January and from 15 July to 15 September each year according to the Croatian Constitution. Only at those times does this law say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78252	Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78253	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretary, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposed law for a certain period of time empowers the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issues of the current economic policy in the part of the Croatian Parliament, except for changes in the state budget and tax regulation, and those issues which can be governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia only by the Croatian Parliament, relating to the development of the Constitution of established human rights and fundamental freedoms, national rights, electoral system, establishment, part-line and way of operation of state bodies and local self-government at a time when the Croatian Parliament does not meet and during the period from 15 December 2011 to 15 January 2012 and from 15 July 2012 to 15 September 2012, and, exceptionally, during the period of disband or the expiry of the term of the Croatian Parliament, until the date of the first meeting of the new elected Croatian Parliament. Also, the proposed law, and in order to allow time-limits for issues governed by the regulations to be governed by the applicable law, provides for an extension of their validity but no longer than 31 December 2011. For this reason, given that the proposed law prevents the creation of a legal void and allows the Government of the Republic of Croatia to and in the future when it is necessary to adopt a regulation on the basis of legal powers, I support the adoption of the Law on the power of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78254	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will, of course, support this law for the reason that the Croatian Parliament uses its legal authority to mandate the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for a period of no more than one year, to regulate certain issues from its part-round. I'm not going to repeat everything else because it's already said exactly at what time. So, only when the constitutional break is in the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. in the time from the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament to the constitution. So, when Parliament does not sit down and when certain questions need to be resolved. I cannot agree with my colleague Grubisic for his proposal that this should be settled permanently, because it would simply be unconstitutional since the Constitution allows the Croatian Parliament to, at the most, in time of a year, have the power to bring it forward, to regulate certain issues by regulations. Similarly, I would not agree with my colleague Lek, who supported this Law, which in all terms agrees with the transfer, delegations of these powers to the Government, but believes that regulations should not intervene in the law because the hierarchy of the regulations is then violated. Namely, this Law, as well as the Constitution, says that it is delegated, that the Croatian Parliament delegates its power to the government, to settle certain issues with regulations when the Parliament does not sit. Of course, if it settles some issues from economic relations that have not been resolved, and they need to be resolved, then it will be dealt with in a way that does not derivate the laws and intervenes in the law. However, the question is how else can it intervene in the law to resolve a question which is regulated in some way by law and should be regulated differently, during the period at which the Government is empowered, of course by submitting a report to the Croatian Parliament, and that, after that, if it wishes to remain so permanently, it proposes to the Croatian Parliament a bill that will then be passed in the form of the law, in order to ensure the permanent resolution of this issue in the intended manner. So I think that this law is good at all, this proposal, that it meets exactly the one, that it realises that the Constitution has given the Croatian Parliament, and that in some ways there is no delay in regulating certain issues, of course with all these constitutional constraints that we have heard, and with the additional restrictions that are proposed by this law, which is the adoption of budgets and regulation of new taxes. Here's for all these reasons, I'll support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78256	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78257	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 875. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section. Let's please get involved and vote on this bill. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 90 votes for, 2 are abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78258	Moving to the next point - 3. Proposal for a Law on Art Education, first reading of P.Z. No. 868 Proposer is Government, first reading. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, education, science and culture and local and regional self-government. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Želimir Janjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78259	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me briefly tell you about this bill, the law we intend to implement in two readings. So in these past few years we have passed all the necessary laws, starting with the Law on Preschool Education and Education, the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, the Law on Professional Education and the Law on Adult Education, of course establishing both the necessary professional institutions, both the second and third agencies, and then the National Centre. The only part of the system left without being entirely covered by a special law is the Art Education Act. So far, we've only actually had a rule about education, about art education in elementary school, and that rule is from '93. the years and actually through him took place education in our art schools. Therefore, there is a lot of uncertainty in this system and it is very difficult to treat the inspectors themselves when they come to our schools for oversight. Of course, it is done as the profession says and there are no deviations, but it still needs to be normalized somewhere, and this is why we are actually finishing this normative framework that covers all parts of this part of the education system from preschool to high school education. The current state says about this: we have 90 elementary and secondary music schools and we have 12 schools that have art and design programs. The total number of students in our music schools and primary and secondary schools is 19 thousand and 789, and a thousand 687 is in art and design schools. So quite a number of students. I will also mention that in elementary schools we have about 17,000 students, and in secondary schools something over 2,000 students, the reason is that basic music education takes, say, 6 years, which is where we have a two-year preparatory degree, and in secondary schools is over 4 years, and therefore this population is much smaller. But in making this law that I admit we've been doing for a little longer than a year, the experts have been involved, and here we have come to this war, so at first I want to ask you that all of you who are going to take part in the debate to make your proposals and remarks, we are open to everyone, it is our intention to make a good law, and to say that we have finished in this term the job of norming the entire system from preschool to high school education. With this law, we have defined all the conditions for enrolling students, so we want to actually use the current curricula and the programs, and the future curricula to ensure that it is the same for all students, and here we are talking about two parts of such curricula, one part would be core, and the other would be differentiated into this core, so the student will choose for himself which subject, which instrument will be defined, but also have a theory, or solfeggio, and in that differentiated part of what the school can offer him, and I must immediately say that we will take care of this particular teaching plan, because at this point we have this quite ambitiously set up, so let's say in secondary schools we have a weekly burden on such students who attend this course, except for this original school, for example, at the age of 32 or over 50. Of course it's a matter of his choice, but in any case, this number of hours in the teaching plan we'll try to reduce exactly in that differentiated part, and we don't think that we'll actually, in fact, help students on the one hand, and on the other hand, the whole system because we need everything professionally covered, and we don't have as many experts in this area as we need. Furthermore, there are some restrictions in overtime, unlike previous times, so we are in a position for teachers who teach children, especially in dislocated departments, to do some gratis because they want to give children what they want, and on the other hand, so many part-time hours simply cannot be paid by law. Here is also the age limit for enrolling students, but I would say quite flexible, so when we talk about enrollment in a basic music school, we talk about age in a 7-year-old rule, so it goes there up to 24 years, or 22 years when we talk about a musician, singer, or musicians, singers, it's simply years when, which must be so set up for mutating voice, and for a number of other reasons, and so the profession says, and we actually stick to it. But you noticed probably in an article that defines it from, at 9 points, that at 9 point we say that an exception can actually be accepted, but that is what the expert bodies of schools in the course of the exam will question the students... Of course, those entrance exams must have gifts that are different cannot be examined, and there is no fear that someone will now profanise it and that someone who really doesn’t deserve it will appear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that actually opens up the possibility for someone who knows for what reasons he could not have been involved until then in the regular system of this kind of art education. Of course, here we have defined the duration of education. The primary education is 6 years, secondary education is 4 years, I'm talking about music schools, but when I talk about dance schools then it's 4-4 and the age limit is a little bit later, so in elementary school. And in fact, we're kind of easing that there's a so-called. the preparatory degree when it comes to dance schools for 1 year, or music schools 2 years. In fact, it is possible for a child who is gifted and who is in such a programme that who knows for what reasons whether he is living in a rural part, for reasons of inability to pay the costs of transport, etc. It could not have been included then we open up the possibility that in this preparatory section the part needed to enroll, for example, high school music and we think it is correct that there is a reception exam waiting for him there in any case and if it is a gifted child, why would it not realize these wishes. Here we also defined the way in which art schools are funded and established. So, according to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools. So, which belongs to the state budget as a cost, therefore, pays, all contributions to salaries, all collective agreements, etc., but there is one part that will cover the founder from that decentralised part, but there is also one part that will cover the users themselves, or the parents of children who will pay a certain amount. We didn't mention it here, it's a baroque, so I don't know about 150 kuna, and then, on the basis of which the school is involved, but we wouldn't define it by law, but in fact every year the minister makes a decision to enroll students, and then in that decision, there's actually some kind of the lowest and possible maximum amount that can be charged from the user himself. So we would like it to be stimulating even though we are aware that this segment of education is extremely expensive because teaching is mostly individual and it is actually a large number of trained experts on not so many students themselves. And finally, let me just say, when it comes to the staff that I have done several times, that we have certain experts who in the Republic of Croatia because we don't have all the academy's experts, we don't have all the profiles that could end up with the highest possible professional equipment, and therefore we allow the lecturers to be the ones who finished that expert training that's highest in the Republic, and we know that it's still not enough. First of all, this applies to dance schools, but I have to tell you right away that 10 days ago that two culture and education ministers signed an agreement that brings two study programs into this particular dance section. And we count that the first students will be the next 2012/2013. years of being able to enroll in these studies. But it'll certainly take a certain number of years for them to go to school, to get the first experts, and by then there would be a solution like this. I ask you once again to be very specific in the debate because tomorrow we will be taking over phonograms and working on making a final draft of the law, and we are actually starting from one setting that we should all be interested in this because at the 2006 World Conference on Art Education, there is a convenient question – is there an artistic education due to a small number of gifts for individual artistic areas or, in fact, because of all of us? I believe that we all share the same opinion that it is because of all of us and that culture is not really a luxury, nor is it a private matter, but is in fact the right of each of us and therefore we want to normively regulate this segment of education how best we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78260	Thank you. The committees? Legislative? Education, science and culture? Vice-President of the Committee of Ms. Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the Committee on Education, Science and Culture held at its 47th session on 27 September this year discussed the proposal of this law as the home working body. According to the proposer, the main intention of the bill is to create legal assumptions for the recognition of artistic education as an equally important component of the education system of the Republic of Croatia. According to the promoter, implementation of the Law on Art Education will enable the construction of an art education system in such a way as to improve the intellectual, aesthetic and social development of students in accordance with their abilities, which will contribute to the acquisition of appropriate competences and qualifications. The proposal of the Law according to the type of curricula and the program, i.e. the girlculum, is also defined by art programs such as music, dance, art, drama and others. It also defines the duration of art education as a basic dance education that takes place in a 4-year period, a basic music that takes place in 6-year and middle art education in a 4-year term. The preparatory dance education for secondary school is conducted according to the curriculum, i.e. the one-year course and the one-year course, while the preparatory music education for secondary schools is carried out according to the curriculum, i.e. the curricula and the 2-year course. In addition, it is proposed to regulate the methods, conditions and procedures of enrolment of students for the entire system of artistic education from enrolment in the first grade of primary art school to enrolment in the first grade of high school as well as to prescribe the status of students of the Art School. The bill also contains provisions on how to finance art schools and programmes, as well as provisions on the way, conditions and procedure of setting up and starting work of the Art School, which will contribute to the development of the Network of Art Programs. In the debate, the board members expressed satisfaction that the adoption of the Law on Art Education would become part of the legislative framework of the Republic of Croatia, given its unquestionable importance in the education and education system of the Republic of Croatia. They praise the introduction of order in the way they finance art schools. In order to pass as high-quality legislation as possible, board members have also made several proposals. The members of the Board shall propose such that the powers of the school board, normised Article 7 of the proposal, should be laid down in a teaching or teaching council which, in the opinion of the members of the Committee, would be more professional in concrete action. They also suggested that the development of art curricula should be raised to a higher level in order to represent a general culture trend. Discussing the programmes of art secondary schools, the opinion is that there should be two different programmes, where the first should be intended for students whose art will be a profession, and here they will get the first qualification and preparation to continue education while another type of programme would allow students to develop their artistic tendencies even after primary school, although not in professional terms. The Committee members proposed that when drawing up the final bill, they consider a legal clause that would free parents of guardians of artistically gifted students of weaker property from participation in the register. After this debate, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by a majority of votes 6 for and 1 abstention, the adoption of the Art Education Act proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78262	Thank you. The Committee on Regional and Local Self-Government? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78263	I thank Mr. Vice President, I welcome the secretary of state with my associates, and at first I would like to say that the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this bill that finally introduces order in this area. No matter what the State Secretary pointed out, the art school relied on laws that are in force regarding primary and secondary education in the Republic of Croatia. However, it did not regulate all specificities of this extremely important activity. So, art education in full, so that many schools and music and dance, art, art, etc., had major problems in their functioning. Therefore, this commendable move of the ministry should indeed be welcomed and supported because it will ultimately regulate all specificities through this law or through sublegal acts that will follow for all artistic areas inevitably after this Law, which will solve the problems faced by art school workers in the long term. So, as is said here in the opening statement, you could see that Croatia has a long tradition of institutional education, over 100 years, some cities in the Republic of Croatia are proud to point out this, but I would say it is very bad for Croatia as a whole that it has only 90 schools. Music schools, there are over 530 units of local self-government in Croatia. So, the largest majority of these units of local self-government, so these municipalities and cities, no art school, no music school or dance school, the more you take into account that a good part of the music arts schools are located specifically in the city of Zagreb, and you further reduce this by one 10 schools located in the city of Zagreb, and then you will see the devastating fact that in the Republic of Croatia you have only 80 cities and municipalities in which you have music or dance education. It is a devastating fact for Croatian society. Of course, it was inherited from a period in which music and dance schools were completely neglected and thrown onto the margins. I remember, I started as a professor at music school, Luke Sorkočević's art school, in the mid-80s, and I'll just remind myself of one fact. At that time, the principals of these schools had to visit the so - called “moon ” every month. You secretaries for culture to beg your monthly wages, to beg their monthly salaries, literally. And just imagine the conditions these people worked on, fortunately their love for art kept them in these institutions, their love for art passed on to young artists, to young students, passed on to them what was needed to ensure that the line of artistic education in Croatia survived. Fortunately here is the arrival of the Croatian state we have managed to regulate a lot, put in place and managed to reach the final stage of the adoption for the first time, the adoption of the Law on Artistic Education which is indeed a valuable move of the ministry and we have talked in the Committee on Science, Education and Culture about the need to adopt this law and in fact initiated me as president of the Croatian Society of Music Dance Pedagogogogogals, whose head I have been on for many years thanks to the Ministry, here... in a double triple role, thanks to the Ministry for understanding and absolutely certain that this Law will welcome all institutions that are engaged in artistic education in Croatia. Why art education has been neglected for decades on this matter should certainly be taken into account in other discussions, but what I want to say is that the importance of artistic education for society is of invaluable importance. When a colleague of the State spoke earlier about what was said on behalf of the Conference on Music and Art Education, I would also add that the Council of Europe has brought a large series of documents in which it commits in some way the Member States of the Council of Europe to enable art to be done to every child. To ensure that every child who goes through a system of education has the ability to master an instrument, either to sing, or to dance, or to deal with art, etc. So these are a number of Council of Europe documents which, unfortunately, we cannot, at this time, allow every child in the Republic of Croatia to deal with art because of the fact that we do not have organised education in these municipalities and cities, but that does not mean that we cannot make an effort in the future, and that I see first and foremost the responsibility and counties and leaders of the counties and those responsible for this area of education in order to in some way support the establishment of these institutions, which is no longer required by these institutions, because basic art school can be created when you have at least three instruments, so three teachers of a specific instrument and one for the subject of the solfage, you can already form a primary institution, a music institution. So, with all four, maximum five employees you can have one music institution that will certainly change I would say the total landscape in the middle in which it works. Here I will give just one example of some cities that have a tradition of music schools and without which it would be unimaginable to talk about these environments as cultural environments, because they rely exclusively on these institutions. Here is an Imotski who, of course, has a number of other cultural activities, but who is extremely proud of his music school, whose students in the national competitions also win first prizes, whose orchestra, the tin music consists exclusively of students and music school that monitors all the protocol events in the city of Imotski that monitors all the celebrations, including those unpleasant moments etc. So by music we can truly enrich and enrich the daily life of each one of us. That such initiatives exist in the world are extremely focused precisely on really trying to solve certain social problems in adolescents right through artistic education. One of the best examples in the world is the example from Venezuela. A project instead of street, a musical instrument was launched in Venezuela a few years ago. In Venezuela, on whose streets children were exposed to drugs, violence, unmanned behavior, etc., they literally picked up children from the street and gave them instruments in their hands, gave them musical instruments. Today, from the same Venezuela, under the direction of a young conductor Gustavo Dudamela, you have one representative world orchestra of young artists, numbered by artists somewhere around 200, so a large orchestra of philharmonic orchestras that performs in the most prestigious halls of the world, which performs in Musicferain in Vienna, which performs in the Berlin Philharmonic Concert Hall, which performs in the most prestigious halls of London, New York, Paris, Rome, etc. These are children who were on the street and who were pulled off the street thanks to music. So, as much as that music can work on any man, I think it's clear from this example. But I'm also going to say one example that is scientifically supported. In fact, we all know that man is composed mostly of water and the highest percentage of water. Recently, a book came out, very interesting by a Japanese author called "True Power of Water", which I recommend warmly to everyone, which tells about how music works on water. This author of the book conducted a research that was scientifically evidenceable and treated water with different compositions, different authors from different periods of music history, and so on with modern compositions. Among other things, he played music, such as Johan Sebastian Bach, Ludwig van Beethoven, Mozart, etc. The moment he froze that water according to a quick freeze method, it could be seen that the crystals of that water were so properly shaped and such amazing beauty was always different, depending on the music and depending on the music that was being played in that room where the water was. At the same time that they played music that is not artistic music, which we can call cacophon, which unfortunately we are exposed daily through various media, that water has not been able to form crystals at all, so there was no possibility of forming crystals. Now you can imagine when music acts like that on water under controlled conditions, you can imagine how music works on us every day to people who are emotional beings and who feel very directly the influence of music. So here's why I gave a little specimen that's very good at painting how music can work on people. Of course it can also act negatively, of course it can act negatively. There was an experiment described in the book "Secret Life of Plants" where plants were treated with a certain kind of music. When the music of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was played, the plants grew faster than usual, also under controlled conditions. When they were playing some music some groups of heavy metals and the plants died. So it's quite clear that every kind of music is working on us, it's just a question of how it works, the question is what we're listening to. We are most often exposed to the five-pare music of art, which is shown to be art, and with art it has nothing to do with art. It is the most common and most often spoken of by artists who are not artists. But that's another problem. It's a problem of the media, it's a problem of society as a whole, etc. So, in order to keep this from going on, I think we can give one boost to our ministry. Here I, on behalf of the club, dare propose to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as we have the "Sport for every child" action for physical health, I would encourage the Ministry to deal with the action of art, so music, dance, art and all other arts for every child for the sake of the mental health of Croatian citizens, for mental health. Because if this music were really listening, then we wouldn't have come into a situation that a few minutes ago one of the MPs was making fun of an instrument and probably with a profession that's connected to that instrument. We wouldn't definitely be in this situation. And we wouldn't be in a situation to really point out that this kind of education has been on the edges of society and that in some ways you can't imagine total education without artistic education. Here in this sense I invite you, of course, colleagues from the ministry, to jointly try to come up with an action that would indeed benefit our youth, and certainly all of us, because this opens up the possibility and education of adults who will certainly be interested in programs in art schools because there are a lot of people who want to master certain instruments, who want to deal with art as a whole. I once again support this bill on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78264	Thank you very much. You see, one set of music and politics was held in Warsaw the other day at which our president Ivo Josipovic's compositions were performed, a very interesting music. She needs to be listened to. And tonight it's going to be one concert, and there's going to be a concert in Lissinski, and there's gonna be especially important tambourine music. In that tone, then on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Now he's going to start with that thing that's going to go to Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78265	There is also a song of shocker, it only springs into God and I fear only God and the Croatian judiciary. But here this would not be a dream of forest, since I come from a city that is fortunately only has a basic music school that operates within the basic school "Ivan Goran Kovačić", and all this activity of artistic education as it stands in this explanation, has been carried out so far in accordance with the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools where it is prescribed that the school, therefore the primary and secondary education can be performed in accordance with this law if the specific regulations are not otherwise defined and decided. The HDSSB Club will also propose, here and praise the adoption of this Law on Art Education, but also propose, since there is a State Secretary, since I spoke to the Society of Pedagogical Engineering of Slavonia and Baranja before the trip to Zagreb, so not only the City of Đakov or Osijek-Baranja County, I suggest that a similar law be passed and technical education is primarily sought by the European system of education, i.e. just an increase in the number of those hours, but I will return here to artistic education. I don't know how the music of President Josipovic affected her, but here I will remind only that they spoke about the Beatles as well. Now we are left to see in the future whether this music will experience such success as Lennon and McCarthy, who also today represent a kind of classic and I believe that plants with them are better successful. But speaking first of all about this law, I want to point out on behalf of the club several objections to the law itself, which is that the founders of these primary and secondary arts schools can be the Republic of Croatia, the unit of the regional self-government, the unit of local self-government and other legal or physical persons. I believe that here in the founders themselves should be the current founders of these art schools, which are primary or secondary schools that have music schools in their composition. Not only enter the pedagogical standards, but also as mayor of one city who has helped not only this basic music school but also the entire schooling, although only the schooling is not in the jurisdiction of the City of Đakov, I will pay particular attention and in the name of the club HDSSB, regardless of the funding of the arts schools, regardless of the material, dance, art school, but also all the expensive art school, especially this page 13, this Article 23 paragraph 3, which states that in the budgets of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government provide funds for the material costs of art schools, and for the material and financial expenditures of schools covering expenditures for materials, parts and services of current and investment maintenance, expenditure for construction, construction, reconstruction of school space and the equipment of school institutions according to standards, normatives that include expenditure on materials, parts and services of public service, public service services, standards for public service services, public service, public service, public service, standards of public service, public service services, public service services, public service services, public service services, public service services, public service services, public service services, public service services, public service services, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education, education and education, and education, education and education, and education, and education, and education, and education and education of education of education, and education, and education of education of education of education of education, and education of education, and education, and education, and education, and education, education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education of education, and education, and education of education of education of education of education of education, and education, and education, and education, and education of education of education, and education, and education, and education of education of education of education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education, and education of education, and education, and We believe that this part, as well as these broader public needs, must be resolved through decentralised means precisely through those 33% that go from income tax to 33% of those 33% of 21% for decentralised functions and 12% for income tax relating to balancing funds. At present, there is a tax system in force in the Republic of Croatia, which represents a clean centralisation because of all tax receipts and all government taxes killings about 92%, 92% of the funds are being poured into the state budget, only 8% are going towards all units of local self-government, according to all municipalities, according to all cities and all counties, including the City of Zagreb and those 8% regardless of the good intensity of this law, not enough for units of local and regional self-government to take on practical funding, but also for the functioning of all art schools in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This is the basic objection of the HDSSB to this law, but also to the Croatian Government, who has not done anything for four years or eight years on the issue of decentralisation, particularly fiscal decentralisation of Croatia, but has just increased one part of the income tax that goes towards local self-government units to take over the total tax, a profit tax that was mainly going to the city of Zagreb until then because the headquarters of large companies were in the city of Zagreb. So, what is necessary in order to liven up such laws, including the law on artistic education, is to decentralise Croatia, fiscal decentralisation in order to possibly have several tambourine professors in Djakov, too, so that they can be formed there even though there are now a dozen very prominent tambourine compositions and orchestras. But so that there might be some new "Slavon Lolas" or "Dukati" or "The Bells" in the future, or I don't know that someone doesn't get angry, but there's no transmission, so they won't hear me. The gentlemen are a little further away, they're from Osijek, they're not from Djakov. That's what he knows best. There's no Ronk with two hot festivals. He knows very well that there are 16 of them in the finals from Djakov. So, intent and I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must understand that in this first step decentralisation must change this relationship at least to 70, 30 this time in favour of the state. But precisely with this 30% and through income tax and profit tax, through real estate tax, the units of local self-government will be able to perform and behave and assume on themselves one responsibility to care for art schools. As regards the participation of the amount of participation for parents here without false demagogy and what the Education Committee has made only parents, or children with a weaker property status, should be freed from payment and participation, I believe that it should be decided that this participation should be an integral part of the decision of the unit of local self-government that will either take over that participation and pay for all children or my proposal is that it certainly does not pay for the ministry. Because I'm afraid we could pass as well as that free ride of students for a high school student. And finally here, I hope this is a small step towards a lost land called Croatian knowledge. State secrets were then the secretary of state, only the minister had changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78266	Thank you. A few corrections. The first Susana Bilic Wardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In his commitment to artistic education in Djakova, Col. Vinkovic presented a number of incorrect allegations that I will try to correct several of them. I cannot correct my colleague Vinkovic to measure the Government of the Republic of Croatia you must know much more about the area you are talking about. You said, quote: "There should be schools in which music education works today." As mayor, you should know that in elementary schools there is also one founder of those who are prescribed there. And secondly, when you talk about decentralised means, don't you know that even now some of the needs of art schools are being financed from decentralised funds that cities receive, or counties to which these functions are transferred.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78268	Okay. I'd like to see that breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... And what's hurt? ... [[You can't hear him.]] Come on! [[You can't hear him.]] What kind of demeanor? Well, it's not a misdemeanor. [[Intruder Vinkovic: So the representative says I should know, and I know.]] Come on, buddy, you... [[Invader Vinkovic: I know very well that today it is financed from decentralised funds.]] Okay. [[You can't hear him.]] But it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. If the MPs or vice versa say he doesn't know what's wrong, it's not demeaning, you know. It's like, as a grade one, one court of law. No one must be offended when someone is told that something weaker knows, knows less or knows nothing at all. Yeah, right. And Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78269	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Vinkovic, unfortunately, I'm also going to have to go on about what you were saying about financing basic, secondary and these art schools are not true. I must remind you, I point out that even today art schools, and it's good that this law has defined that correctly. Later in my debate, I will tell you why they are also financed from decentralised funds through units of local self-government or regional self-government. Because you need to know that all these material expenditures for schools other than salaries, what falls under salary benefits are secured through decentralised funds. Ask that in your primary, secondary schools, and also in your music school, which is if I understand it well inside the elementary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78270	Here's a replica under the cover of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78271	There's too much time here. I don't know what the article is right now. But here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to call Article 214. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78272	That unfortunate article 214 is truly unfortunate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78273	I found this guy today, and I told you that my Rules of Procedure ended up in Zenica, and now I don't know if he's in Mostar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78274	So there's this fellow next to you right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78275	He's preparing for Remetinec. Here's the thing: I'm the only one who'd ask an esteemed representative to read and agree with her that so far it's been such a way of funding and that almost 90% of these music schools or art schools have been financed precisely from these decentralised funds. The proposal for this law and if this is adopted it will no longer be so, but will be paid and compensation will be provided in the state budget. Material rights contracted by collective contracts, fees for transportation to work and work for school workers, vocational training and training, external evaluation, public graduation, teacher licensing, teachers, professional associates, directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78276	Okay, now it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78277	Allow me. Implementation of an educational programme at primary school level.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78278	Okay. Come on, you'll do it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78279	In the budget, please read the financing of Article 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78280	Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78281	This is a bill of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78282	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78283	And my entire debate was about the state taking over what had been allocated to the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78284	All right, fellow Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78285	And equipment and space and all that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78286	Well, let's not start with Mark's strings now. And please don't, I've seen a fellow member of yours start shaking a little when you mention it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78287	When you're not here, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78288	When you're not here, then.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78289	And the Serbs are preparing for you. It is a new aggression on Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78290	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78291	While they do, and some pretend it won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78292	That's what I'm supposed to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78293	Now I'm giving myself a warning here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78294	That's what we concluded in Djakov the other day together. And Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78295	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Vinkovic, you have incorrectly stated how much money ends up in units of local self-government. If you look at the state budget, then you'll see that all the funds, all the income tax revenue in one way or another ends up in units of local self-government. Over 300 units of local self-government are located in the area of special state care, and if you remember in 2003, all these units of local self-government have been blocked due to income tax returns, since 2004 income tax returns are going from the state budget. The second thing, the Compensation Fund, which provides an equal standard practically for everyone in Croatia as far as education is concerned, provides an opportunity among other things to finance a series of activities, and this is suggested to you probably for reasons that some would not be justified tomorrow not to go with the application of this law because they do not have the means provided. Well, it's better to start with the Ministry's resources, and then decentralize them tomorrow. And if you're already talking about decentralised assets, then you need to talk about decentralisation rights, you need to look at what your percentage of the payment of municipal fees and other revenues is, then you'll see where the problem lies with the units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78296	There's the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm weak to you fellow, I'm weak, but don't just, on one condition that you don't mention a colleague of Drmic and Remetinec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78297	He's not going. It's all taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78298	He's not going there, he's not going anywhere... That guy, he's not going. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78299	Well, I'll tell my colleague that he said he hurt his Rules of Procedure, even the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78300	We don't have a friend's license plate in violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78301	About local self-government, I don't know what it's like in Velika Gorica, nor do I get into it, but I know very well what a municipal fee, what it can serve, can't afford to finance this, but on the side of it. If it were a better charge for community compensation, so on, the units of local self-government would be, but not getting into that story. I'm saying that the fact is real, and it's about decentralisation, that fact 52% of income tax, you know very well because you've made such a decision going to the local self-government unit, that this is where Zagreb goes best, possibly large cities, that 33% goes to decentralised functions 21 plus 12, and that 15% goes towards... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78302	There you go, thank you. Okay. ... My people, it's not a matter of funding, let's let it go now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's let it go now. ... Don't, don't, so I can't break the Rules of Procedure so much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can't break the Rules of Procedure that fat. Although the last session is just as fat. ... Come on, let's go to the SDP Representatives' Club, Mrs. Representative Marija Lugaric. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. ... I've had, I've seen, but I've seen something. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, now that the lady's here, then I wouldn't want to. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78303	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Let's get back to this Art Education Act. The SDP Club will support the adoption of this law in the first reading, and indeed we agree with the good part of the statement of the assessment of the situation in the light of this bill, as well as the fact that it is really necessary to pass this specific law. In this regard, we have only one small problem, not a big one, but we will still mention it, namely the time when we are actually passing the law. Mr. Secretary of State, you know well and know it and other colleagues and colleagues from the Committee on Education here from the Croatian Parliament, we, if not more than a year and a half ago, have reached a unanimous conclusion that it is necessary to pass the Law on Artistic Education, we were hoping that this would be something earlier, even the public debate in this law was concluded on 16 April of this year, and we really do not see any valid reason why this law is coming to the final session of the Parliament in this term, which is more about a law that is first regulated in Croatia by one area that has not been resolved so far. In the debate, I will highlight some concrete remarks that we from the SDP have simply out of the desire that, especially the need to adopt them until the second reading, and expressing hope that perhaps even in this session, there will be a second reading that will accept all the constructive and professional remarks that have been made in this debate. The second principled remark we have and which we would like to adopt until the second reading is that although the law is called nominal on artistic education, he is colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry speak primarily about dance and music schools. Art education is much more than dance and music schools, in some fields of art we do not now have a school, which does not mean that we should not create the conditions to have them, and some schools do not know, for example, the art school which is now in Brač, which is being conducted as a crafts school deserves that change to say so in art school, so the law should be talked about other types of art education, and not exclusively about dance and music schools, which is somewhere in this law and quite directly stated that it applies exclusively to each other. Now I would like to say a few concrete, I mean concrete remarks in the articles themselves, simply to be faster and more operational in this part of the adoption of the law at the last session. Article 1 states that public institutions carrying out the activities of art education are art schools and other public institutions. I'm asking, and we're interested in what other public institutions really are. So far, art schools and art schools programmes could be part of popular open universities. The transitional provisions of this law provide that they must be abolished within two years. So, we don't think it's a bad concept, but if those within the mere open universities which is one plus to say so on the availability of artistic education are abolished then the law should talk about that art education is only in schools. If it can be in schools and other public institutions, then there in transitional provisions it must not stand to be removed from the mere open universities. Article 5, Mr. Secretary of State, the representatives of the ministry are once again problems of a termological nature which I fear are the result of a deep misunderstanding of the concept of a girlculum and of what he really means in school. In paragraph 1 of Article 5, you are talking about a national framework girlcullum. As an official document, there is no or can and must exist within the system of education and education as a document based on which school girls are planned and brought. I ask you to stick to the definition of the Law on Education and Education in elementary and high school because it says something but quite another. Secondly, equating the girls and the curricula and the program is something that is completely unacceptable to the profession. Kurikular planning and planning based on the curricula plan and programme are two almost equally legitimate ways of programming in education, but cannot be both. It's either one thing or another. You have it in every article of article 5. And we really ask you, we warn and talk about it several times a year with every law on education and I must admit it to me is already a bit embarrassing to warn the ministry, but these are simply mistakes that can't happen. So, really termologically clarify that and call terms the real names that they really are. Article 5, paragraph 9, reads: “In secondary art education, students acquire knowledge and skills to work and continue education.” Absolutely, absolutely necessary with one small but – in dance education in Croatia, you do not have a vertical on a tertiary level. And it is not enough in the law to pass only a regulation that is a condition for continuing education but the ministry should do much more not have encouraged higher education institutions to continue to develop this vertical. Article 6(1), if I hadn't explained all this to you again about the girl's core, differentiated, that's what you've done, but I'm totally afraid that if some students were to take the test with these definitions, they wouldn't have passed the basic didactics, but about that. Contradictions in formulations, quite a mess. Really fix it because otherwise we won't be able to support the law without it. It's really an alphabet. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – this is this example where you speak exclusively of music and dance schools. What about art schools? What about some drama schools we don't have? So, you should either apply to all art schools or work especially dramatic, i.e. dance and music and these others. We're in the SDP's opinion that you might consider that the age of enrollment in school is not limited to these, say, seven years. The truth you leave open the possibility in the 9th paragraph to be exceptionally agreed by the school board although I think it should primarily be the consent of the teaching and teaching council, not the school board which has one other function within the school so that the enrolment and the younger child can be approved, etc. However, this part of art education must be subordinated to a child, to his talent, or to the gift of some other children, and to be maximumly flexible, and we may be there for a little more radical to say a approach that would truly respect that anyone within that artistic education can achieve the maximum of what he wants, not thinking too much about how many years of life he has. Article 8(1), paragraph 3. Excuse me, one basic subject is not a subject but a programme. So it was obviously about programs, not objects. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – student Paragraph 1 again. - the evaluation is assessed in accordance with the current curriculum and curricula and programme. It's either a little girl, or it's a plan and a program. He can't do both. We have a systemic question to say about Articles 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21. As a rule, here is a copy of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, provisions relating to norms, professional bodies of schools, documentation, pedagogical documentation, establishment of schools. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. - that he has a So this Art Education Act is a lex specialis compared to this one on primary and secondary education. If we're completely passing from one law to another, I mean, it's really unnecessary. This law should go into specifics that are not mentioned there in that law because knowing us or rather the proposals that come from the ministry in one law will write one, and in another, then people will have problems on the ground that actually respect the law and what they do. So consider removing articles from 17 to 21, that is to sum them up exclusively to things that are specific and different in art schools compared to these general primary and secondary schools. Similarly, with a small supplement, Article 23 and the financing provisions apply. Here I would like to say very clearly on behalf of the SDP, if the principle of artistic education is that it is equally accessible to all, then not participation and funding of parents can be a condition for attending primary or secondary music school. The funds for financing public needs in artistic education are provided, but several indents are the last – by participating parents, i.e. custodians. Of course, it is prescribed that the minister will determine what this level of participation is, but if a child can choose only to go to a basic music school not in this general or high school, vice versa, our Constitution which speaks of the availability of one and the other and the obligation ultimately cannot be tied to the monetary participation of parents. Such behaviour in higher education has led us to a whole mess in the higher education system and to this day again strike students in colleges. So, if participation is not equally available to everyone because those who do not have money cannot go to music school, if the principle of equal availability to all then parental participation does not exist. There's no third or road in between. By the way, note Article 6 of that paragraph 23 mentions Article 9 and paragraph 3 which discusses the price of education, i.e. the participation of parents, and Article 9 has only two paragraphs, the third does not exist so that we cannot even see what it actually refers to. But please think about it and it will be very important somewhere in our decision in the second reading about this law is therefore a story of equal availability and its connection with participation. If a parent pays, then it is not equally available to everyone and of course it is not good. Article 26 and Article 3 I have already said about dance and music schools that work within the framework of open universities is something that you really need to clarify and what you really need to clear up. I agree that Mr. Matušić spoke of some smaller places, for some smaller environments that should encourage this network and art programs that do not necessarily have to be related to the institution of the school as institutions, which can be related to something else, there may even be more specific about this more flexible variant at the expense of the content and availability of the programme to children and young people than the very formal conditions of establishing art schools. And in the end only Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, two notes. Pedagogical standards for primary and secondary education again speak exclusively about dance and music programs, do not talk about any other kind of art programme, as in one part they call for special regulations that need to regulate artistic education and refers to the establishment of a school institution as many children and departments must be for a school institution, so we need one supplemental pedagogical standards related to art schools or some special standards related only to art schools. This Law applies exclusively to art schools, dance schools, music schools, but we in the SDP would like to say in the end that education of art about music, about theatre, education on painting, about all forms of art is not and must not be elitist and is not and must not be reduced exclusively to these special art schools. The tragic situation is that today he is with us in primary and secondary schools and art are reduced to the captain's office for one single hour a week. Little children, 7.8 years old, and that's what fellow Matušić was talking about where it was acquired, it's one basic art literacy, if we can call it that they don't actually have when and where to get it. These children who will go to art schools are those who have already stood out as gifted or talented or have special tendencies. Most of the population remains completely beyond the reach of artistic education and if we want to do good for artistic education it is to change the captainship of these art in primary and secondary schools. Art education, unfortunately, I repeat, is too often for us to be elite but not to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78304	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78305	I'd just like to correct the part where my colleague was talking about equal availability, and yet she's mixed up some things, namely, basic music school can't replace elementary school. So it's not about equal categories and it just can't be compared, so it's important to factor it out. And as far as participation is concerned, it is essentially not a condition for art schools, it applies exclusively to improving teaching, we will talk about it later, and in fact to equip these art schools. What are the expensive art schools in? They're expensive right in the instrumentation, one instrument, one piano for art school if you want top-of-the-line it costs 100,000 euros if you want the best for our children, and you have a school where you have 50 teachers voting where each needs at least one such instrument then you know about the costs and restoring that instrument it's really expensive but absolutely precious.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78306	And since it's a good tambourine? Drums. And the cymbals? Club of representatives HNS HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78307	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to be much shorter than the predecessors because I think important things have been said and I'm going to underline what we agree on and I'm not going to repeat myself. The HNSU club will support this bill in its first reading and I would like to go perhaps on what counterpart Matušić said in his presentation. This law finally introduces order into this area, undermining the word at last. In fact, colleagues and colleagues are asked a question about why we have not heard why the law relating to over 100 schools has not been drafted before, why the Law concerning 1000 and 1000 students has not been passed before. Why is the law for which no additional funds have been passed before and whose application is not required. This Law has only nine pages, from which I agree with the full part of the text copied from other laws. So if we reduce that to three, four, five pages of text. And we were waiting for September 2011. Years. Croatia is a country that should live on cultural tourism, music, art activities, dance, and we should just encourage this area to be strongly encouraged. Sadly, we have not been able to recognize or do anything to this day. I don't know how many people in the ministry follow the field of art education, I don't know how those people are educated and how much they're allowed to perfect themselves in their area, but I think this is unacceptable. I thank my colleague, Lugarić, who has made very correct and precise and extensive the most basic objections we have and we are particularly surprised by the lack of knowledge of the difference between the curricula, the programme plan, etc., which I don't know what to say, better not to say anything about it. But unfortunately, that's how it is. We agree that there have been a number of shortcomings in this area, and I think that in the assessment of the situation, Mr. Secretary of State gave it correctly and objectively presented this situation, and you made it clear what this bill wants to change. I hope that I don't know if you'll make it in two, three weeks again to this session of the Parliament with the final bill, I hope it's possible but I'm very sorry that we're working in this way that in the last session, here's this 6. We come with this important law, I say, in the broadest sense, a significant law for both students and their parents for our society, for our economy, for our tourism above all, that's something we can't agree on in our club and we're sorry to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78308	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78309	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will support the safe adoption of this law, because as a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture as well as my colleagues on several occasions I will not say I insisted, but I have proposed the adoption of this law because in a whole series of regulations that this Government has implemented and in the last adoption when we passed the Law on Professional Education and when we talked about those 14 new education sectors, we said that one belonged to art, but that surely this art education is a specific education and that it should be separated by a separate law. I am sorry only that my colleague Lugaric has now made really good proposals on behalf of the club, but she did not present these proposals on the parent board. We discussed some proposals on the parent board, unfortunately the opposition did not come to the parent board, so she did not hear your answers as a ministry promoter about some of the remarks we had and which we have established here. Of course, this is a specific education, which aims to enable students with special abilities and preferences to acquire knowledge and in this very adoption of the proposal that we have agreed on on on our parent committee, perhaps we should separate the teaching programmes for those students who think that education is so far away from them that it becomes an interest to them, that it becomes something to deal with in the future and indeed those students who simply want to create a common culture. Maybe it would be about proposing a curricula that we don't have so far, so I believe that's why you keep mentioning the word or the curriculum and the program, which you explained on this committee. I must say that we have just proposed, and I have also noticed that in the part of the law in which you speak about the registration age, perhaps in Article 7(9), jurisdiction should be given to the professional bodies of the school, which means that it decides who, other than those mentioned at the age of entry, should have the right to enroll the art school, because we consider it to be a matter of profession rather than a school board, so the board that works and manages the school in some way, so that expert council. I'm not going to repeat what's already been said, so I'm going to cut my debate short as much as possible, but I need to look back at one particular area, which is the school's establishment or the school's funding area, and I'm going to tell you why. It is good that this law sets out exactly who can be the founder of the school and what are the obligations of the school founders in terms of funding. I'll tell you why. We started Music School in Novska from practice 15 years ago. Believe me, as beginners, I worked at the County Office for Social Activities at the time, and neither the Ministry nor we could in the regulations of the existing then know who would be the founder and who would fund what. In fact, we started with basic music education, but soon we had to turn it into a high school music education because a large number of students who traveled to Slavonski Brod who traveled both to Zagreb and Sisak, because Sisak was then the only music school, high school to that education. Opening primary music school as a private music school created a condition that we also have a high school education. And there was then the founder of the music school of the elementary school and the one who encouraged the establishment was the city of Novska, this took over the county and through decentralised functions was financed by the ministry. I'm sorry there are no colleagues, Vinkovic, to explain why it's good that you listed exactly who and what you're funding here. It's the founder's question. It is also good that the music school can be established here by the Republic of Croatia and the units of local self-government and administration and some third-party legal persons, and it is also good that you retain it, and this is on the trail of what counterpart Matušić was saying and colleague Lugarić, and also a colleague, Doric, that we should spread art education in general and be available to everyone in the Republic. I'll talk about my county and the one in Sunja and the one in Novska and the one in Sisak and the smaller places. And that's possible if, with the basic existing elementary school, you start some grade primary school. Why am I going to support this that the popular open universities, they're not going to greet me and I believe that they're going to object, why maybe it's not really good, and you believe that in some way through practice, you've seen that even open-school populaces have music departments not schools in their system, because fewer people, really these people who work in open-air universities that have other interests are less involved in these music schools. You have a better quality of teaching and organization if a music school that has a place of origin in one larger place has its separate departments in smaller places and that is that we will finally regulate. And we'll also regulate for funding. That's where I'm going back to the participation because it's just participation and it's the big elevators of the open-air colleges. They were collecting this big one, they call it a scholarship for music and art schools. Here, I'm sure we should uphold this law. I think it's good, we don't all have to agree with the same, that what's regulated by the basic Law on Education and Education in Elementary and High School is still being prescribed here. Because when today-to-morrow people who will control, who will have to exercise administrative control and professional control over the work of art schools, will know that they must first of all relate to their law, which is the Law on Art Education. Because there were really some illogicalities here, and these illogicalities often led, dear colleagues and colleagues, in practice to major riots. That is why I really welcome the adoption of this law, along with those proposals made by the State Secretary in the committee debate, I ask that in the second reading be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78310	Thank you. Three replicas. First respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Roxandić, in any case, I will support your presentation and, of course, the adoption of this law. I wanted to say that here it is said that children are a gift from God, and children who have a talent for art are truly a special gift from God and only parents who have such children know what it means when a child goes to a double school to lead, and in the end, it is fortunate to hear a child play a beautiful instrument or sing or dance, as well as a picture and act, or is a director. What I was going to say and support is the initiative of young musicians, and these are musicians who play jazz music. They're musicians who graduate from our academy or they'll graduate. Unfortunately, the jazz department at our academy is gone, so our children are leaving outside Croatia, paying dearly for the conservatory. What makes us so happy is that they're so talented and then they're kind of low in value, but of course they live somewhere where they have to pay for the apartment. Well, here's my one initiative and a request if it can in some way encourage the music academy, the music initiative and young people to support the establishment of the jazz department and, of course, the new academy to end as soon as possible because there will be a lot more room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78312	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78313	I want to tell my colleague that I will support you in that, and I will tell you why. In smaller places and in some places and in Sisak, there is so-called. Jazz Academy. These are private schools, initiatives that are highly developed and can tell you extremely well with a number of students, young people who play jazz. I support my colleagues, Sumrak, and I encourage all of us, and above all, the ministry to guide the music academy, the Music Academy in Zagreb, the opening of this department. I think it's also the academy that once has, and I've been saying that in the debate about the Higher Education Act, it's opening up to some modern educational flows, some new departments. It's a academy that doesn't even have a scientific study yet, which doesn't even have a doctoral study, and I think it's high time that a very, very famous and good music academy in this part of Europe certainly opens up one of these new departments and that we will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78314	And Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78315	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague, Roksandić, you've opened one issue that is extremely important for the functioning of art schools, primarily music schools, and that's the question of verticals. When you were talking about elementary and secondary music schools and the fact that after primary school simply children who want to continue have to go to high school, high school music school, and it is not easy for them because they don't have that school vertical in their midst, and all because of the fact that we actually have very small numbers and high schools that are usually found exclusively in the centers. County centers, county headquarters. As a rule. As a rule, I don't even think they're in each one. I should check that out now, but I'm not 100% sure. In any case, a child who finishes his primary music school in one small municipality is left with nothing left but to move to another center of the council where there is a high school of music, which is, of course, much harder than later when they decide to go to high school, after high school, when they are alone in life. So it's a lot harder to go to a bigger middle after primary school, into another environment and do that motive, and that's why we actually have a smaller number of high school students, not because of interest, but simply because of this technical fact. And indeed, when we talk about artistic education, then we should always keep in mind the vertical of this education that needs to be established, and in this sense here I think it is necessary to think long-term and where there are conditions and to open and secondary art schools that would be a continuation of this primary school action that is quite broadly compared to high school, but that should be complemented by that vertical.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78316	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78317	Comrade Matušić, I really agree with you. I wanted to point out in my debate, and it was my idea to highlight this vertical passing, but also the difficulties that students face in smaller places where there is no secondary music school. I agree with you, I spoke very often about music school, but there are a whole range of other art schools, mostly dance schools. My colleague Lugaric said there is one problem in these dance schools that there is no continuation of education and that is one big one, after the middle you can't go on, you stay in high school. But from at least what we learned at the Education Committee, the secretary of state said, I believe that he will now and in his response to all of us that the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Science has also signed an Agreement on the Dance Academy which will be financed and implemented by the joint forces of the two ministries in order to just get this one higher degree of education and that dance art would get the possibility of a higher degree of education, and certainly those who will carry out that education back in secondary and elementary dance schools. I agree with you, it should be possible and the intensity of this law is to allow education at all levels by verticals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78318	And Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78319	Thank you very much. My colleague, Roksandić, you encouraged me to this replica by bringing up the problem of setting up or lack of high school, at the level of secondary school art education in smaller environments. My colleague Roksandić, I think your Sisak or my Slavonski Brod in our Croatia would not be less middle. But here's Slavonski Brod, the town of Slavonski Brod had the same problem. The elementary music school with more than 50 years of tradition in which young people who had to continue in larger centres were educated and highly gifted in Zagreb or Osijek were asked to create a vertical artistic education in Slavonski Brod and to transform the basic music school with great help and cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports of Brod-Posavina County as founder of secondary schools and the town of Slavonski Brod, which has the founding rights of the basic music school, founded the Slavonski Brod Music School and thus provided this vertical which was spoken of by fellow Matušić. But as well as the procurement of instruments that are, there are no colleagues of Vinkovic obtained from decentralised funds. Namely, the county's assistance in the establishment of art education in high school and thus gained the conditions of colleague Roksandić to support in this law that primary schools that still have a better and wider network in the area of counties should be the holders of art programmes. So, not to set up institutions, but to provide children and young people with artistic education where there is room, where there is interest. And for this reason, it is for each commendation and co-operation of two resolution ministries, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education to jointly finance and assist the development of artistic education in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78320	And there's a horn, a musical instrument, a horn? Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78321	Thank you, very briefly. Well, my colleague Bilić Vardic, you didn't get me very well. I didn't think it was a ship, or a Slavon ship, or Sisak, which is very similar to small towns. I mentioned another small town, which is Novska where the students from Brod started to go because there was no music school in Brod at the time, so I said it was a really good program, that it was good for other cities to start music schools. Here's just so much, and Sisak has a very long and good, extremely good music school from which a lot of very good and very high-quality musicians came from.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78322	Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78323	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So the inclusion of children, i.e. students in such artistic processes, develops in each individual a sense of creation and purpose for the initiative. Cognitive development is also encouraged. During the very appearances that are part of their education, they certainly create self - confidence, such children are released from the porch and are certainly easier to walk into life. I'd say, in fact, that most children, and almost certainly all of them have some creative potential. This law that we are talking about today refers to more than 22, almost thousands of students, which is not small and exactly why I support this law. Because so far, as already stated, this activity is based on the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, i.e. on rules that spoke about both norms and conditions. But they weren't defined. A lot of things weren't defined. And the conditions of registration, age limits, or any possibility of crossing. That wasn't defined. And that is why I once again say that I support the adoption of such a law that regulates art education, which prescribes the specificity of artistic education as part of a single system. My colleague, in front of the SDP, made comments on the articles. I'll just look back at a few of them. Here I will say in Article 2 which says that artistic education is available to everyone under equal conditions, etc. However, I would say, of course, that residence is a constraint factor. Because from what we heard, we only have a few, about 90 schools. Therefore, we have no damage in rural areas and smaller areas. Hence, that residence is one of the limiting factors. I would then refer to Article 13 which states paragraph 1 in the event of school leaving, the student may continue his education in the same class at the latest in the following year. And paragraph 2 says the school board decides in the follow-up to education where the student wants to continue his education. I wouldn't agree with that. This is about the competence of the expert bodies. Whether it'll be a teaching council or something, not a school board. And I would also suggest that in the event of a school dropout, that although these are parallel schools with primary school education, that these other schools may be some condition that it is small. So I would suggest that it be longer than the next school year. Then I would refer to funding, Article 23, which is about participating parents, guardians, students. It's like we've heard quite a charm. There were suggestions that it would be without payment for a particular category of children. I would, however, agree with those who have proposed that local self-government determine it through its social measures, etc. that we actually leave it to them, and otherwise there is now, I think the other child pays less. At least that's how I, as a mother, used to pay less in a music school with a child. And also point six, which says, paragraph six, excuse me. The school board, with the consent of the founders, makes a decision on the amount of parental participation, etc., of course I disagree because the school board, I think, I don't know whether it's the competence of the school board or some kind of profession. I would return to Article 7(9), which I support, which speaks in fact the whole paper on enrolments, and Article 9 is said to be extremely generous on the basis of the exceptional gifts shown with the consent of the school board, but not of the school board but of the expert body, it is possible to enroll in the preparatory programme of the secondary school, i.e. the first class, etc., etc. Because I remember when I went to music school that she was a group of adults, that's when we called them a group of adults who are also great musicians today. So I think this is a good thing, just that that competence, actually that decision should still be made professionally. Here or we have an example of our Mrs. Sheparovic, which means as an adult, she also graduated from the academy. So I guess that's the age limit for music that I don't think should be expressed. Now I would just briefly look back on, when we were listening to a fellow representative of Matusic, I think, and he was talking about how the music actually works on the organism, how it works which music, which kind of music acts on the organism, creating crystals, or structure, I have to say here that it's more coherent and structured to listen to today's talk about music, means sometimes it's enough to talk about music to actually feel it and certainly that we can create crystals, not when it comes to politics sometimes how to talk. Why do I say that? Well, here's what you said in your speech, in fact, that in times past, that somehow that musical education was on the margins. I have to give an example that I was thinking in the '60s or '70s at music school, and that then in class we were more of a number that we went parallel to two schools, than... when my kids went to high school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't think it's true that in the past times that music education was, or artistically, on the margins. But I also agree that this has been working for a long time and that it is finally introducing order into art education, remains, of course, now as we have heard the problem of the staff that will develop over time and, of course, providing funds because the art schools are very expensive, of course, that this is a very important area of education and I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78324	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I didn't mean to, it's quite a fair debate, but I have to react to this statement from my colleague. And first when I was talking about margins then I was talking about funding, I was talking about funding, I said that art school directors were then praying every month to get paid. Prayed. So these music schools that were really on the sidelines at the time were. I'm glad you enjoyed listening to me talk about music without listening to me talk about politics, but listen, these are our political commitment. But now you've pulled my tongue, because now I'm going to tell you something that I had no intention of telling you. And since you mentioned the past times, then I will mention to you a situation from the 1970s when I went to elementary school, or already in the first high school of music in Dubrovnik, in... And we had this performance in a town next door to Dubrovnik, not to mention the name of that unfortunate city. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there, on the schedule of concerts performed by children of music schools from Dubrovnik, was Handel's "Alleluja" from the oratorium. After that, all the participants of the concert, school professors and directors had to go to the committee and justify themselves why Hadendel's "Alleluja" was performed at the concert, at the concert in the city. Who allowed Handel's Hallelujah to be on the concert schedule. And then something to say about a former system that wouldn't allow the most beautiful works of artistic music, the highest works of artistic music to be thought out in the H-Mole of Johann Sebastian Bach, or Beethoven's Mass, or so on, that, therefore, which in some way did not allow these works to even be performed, even to these absurdities went this system, to such absurdities. If you don't believe you have living colleagues down in Dubrovnik who are very well known, I'll tell you the names so you can ask them what happened after that concert, who had to go to the committee to explain why Handel's "Alleluja" was on schedule.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78326	Well, why was she?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78327	It was because of the artistic value of the work, because it was one of the highest works of art, Hadendel's "Alleluja" is today being heard every little bit at a concert etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78328	Is that not like an opening to a woman's gate? Fran open the women's gate and how it goes. Hallelujah. Final review, State Secretary Željir Janjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78329	Thank you very much, Vice President. So let me just say this briefly, I'm going to start with respected MPs and MPs from this last one when you talk about the number of students involved, of course we have a lot of paper in preparation and a lot of data because we've really worked so hard on it, so I'm going to answer the esteemed representative Doric to that observation about why it took so long. So the school year 1984, '85. We're not in total, I'm only going to talk about music schools, because these other segments were less developed before, almost certainly not, and now there's something and we're developing and vertical. So there were 2 thousand 669 students in the Republic of Croatia in '84, '85. School years. 15 years later in '99, 2000 there were 13 thousand and 622 students, and 10 years later, so last school year 2009, 2010. 19 grand and 787... I mentioned earlier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here if you want to compare those periods, that number of students in our, in this case to music schools, I dare say is quite an increase. And that's something we're really proud of. It's not an accident, it's not an accident. I'll remind you, in these few years we've established several high-school music schools with the help of the founders where there were none. So when a colleague named Susana Bilić Vardić spoke about Brodo-Posavina County, of course they didn't have high school music, she was just a basic music school. And it was founded, their children went to both Osijek and Zagreb and Požeg, but three years ago a high music school was founded. Now they don't have to travel, and of course we'll expect more students to participate not only in high school but also in primary schools because they have a place to go. Or when we talk about a draft of new ones where we took care of this vertical and there was no such thing in Krapina-Zagorje County, we now have a high school of music, a very high-quality high school of music and of course we can also expect to include more students who are gifted. But it wasn't even in that county where I came from, it wasn't even in Vukovar-Srijem County, so we started a high school in Vinkovci about five years ago. I hope she's not the only one. And our children traveled to other centers. So when we talk about that vertical, of course we take care of it as much as we can and cover the part that wasn't covered. Now thank God in the entire Republic of Croatia we have satisfactorily covered that vertical, except for higher education, but here we are now starting to work on that part as well. And you know, when we were preparing this bill, we hired among other things the Dean of the Music Academy in Zagreb who knows it all better than we do. And the respected colleague Doric made an observation about why it was not before, or what capacities we have at our disposal. Well, I will, although he's gone, you'll probably pass it on to him, and when I see him, we at the ministry have one single counsellor for music schools. So, not for music, but for all art schools, one single consultant. At the Education and Education Agency, one single consultant for all art schools. No more, we can't even work anymore, that's the regulation, that's the structure. So we count on all the experts who are in our institutions and thank them best from this pay phone for selflessly helping us with this. And when we talk about these jobs and, of course, we'd love to round up this normative framework and pass the Art Education Act, but we didn't want any objection that we did anything over our knees and that we didn't do it right. The public debate lasted a long time, after the end of April of this year and the public debate of course that we had to give to our lawyers to legalise as best they can, and then implement all of that procedure by GSV through all the ministries that should give their opinions, through the coordination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government, and you got it on benches, in fact not on benches but was published on the web pages of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 21 July this year so that you had enough time to look at this all together. And if you will when it comes to these jobs that we could have done before, I will only remind you of the part that applies to the system of secondary education in these few years behind us and with which we both conclude our mandate here and I dare say that we did a good job because without you in the ministry, of course we wouldn't have done it. So let me, therefore, with legislation, along with the Law on Professional Education that was passed here in the regular procedure where you made a lot of good proposals and hopefully we made a good law, so we passed that law equally in the regular procedure of the Law on Adult Education, and here we came to this law. But don't forget that we've established several professional institutions that support the entire education system, I'm talking about middle school so far, the National Centre for the External Evaluation of Education, the Agency for Professional Education of Adults, the Mobility Agency; that we've spent a state degree that we've been preparing for quite a number of years and we've all been involved in it, it wasn't enough for us to engage only in the ministry, but actually a number of experts from our schools from our higher schools. Now, for a few years we've been working on IPA projects, you've had a chance to read in the paper that when it comes to IPA projects located in the Office of Secondary Education, so our withdrawal of these European funds is 99%, please show one segment where they were so successful. Not to mention the new girls, so from a few years ago CNC operators, shipbuilders, dental assistant who has now entered the system, nurses general care that we have done in accordance with the directive and that is actually the first occupation that will be able to find their place in Europe and run there for jobs. Electronicly enrolling in higher education that did not only transparently everything but simplified this complete process, cheaped for all the accessors, i.e. for their parents and dared to now create confidence in such a single system. And what we have now continued in that part because in this part of the secondary education system we want to adapt especially to new technologies, so with this enrolment, with the e-matrix that we have going with the pilot project that has already started, you know that from the media so far in three schools of electronic journals. We've changed the law together with you where we've released some 20 million kunas based on one year and opened up the possibility that the founders of these funds that we won't take from them will remain decentralised so that they can go to projects like this, as I've just mentioned. And, of course, we're closing everything in 2012/2013. years of electronic enrolment in high school where we will again make the system more transparent and efficient and much cheaper for all parents who have enrolled their child in first grade high school had to come once with documents to register, second time to see what they were like on the rank list and third time to enroll their child. If that's a 50-mile distance, then you can figure out how much it costs. So in all parts I dare say we've done a lot. And in the end, all I ask you about is the funding of Mrs. Bonačić, let's be realistic. I accept that we determine some kind of right measure, but allow this is a kind of education and it's good that we support it and it's expensive for us and we don't feel sorry for the money, a lot of teachers need to pay, a lot of equipment to take, but don't forget that basic education is mandatory. This is paid to the students in full, and this second part of their interest is not an obligation to let it be some kind of participation because we are nowhere in the Constitution or anywhere obliged to declare this kind of education mandatory and open in some way completely free of charge. I dare say that what we pay from the state budget and from the founder's budget is a very large amount that covers 88 or 89% of all costs and that small cost must be some responsibility and a parent who sends his child because he wants to develop his generosity and we help in this earnestly. So in that formulation, when it comes to funding, I hope that we will find ourselves somewhere in some kind of compromise that will fairly determine how much it costs. Of course, at the end of the day thank you all very much for making a contribution to this debate, we'll look at the phonogram, we'll take it tomorrow and we'll try as soon as possible to make a final draft of the law, and I hope that in this rounding around the normative framework you'll help us to do this one more reading by the end of this session of the Parliament and that we can say that we've done a great job in this education system. And in the end I was talking about verticals, I was talking about what we don't have, so at this point it reminds me of me Mrs. twilight at this point we have it covered when it comes to musical education, about these other parts not, but in any case we'll be taking care of it, such schools are the only basic God we have at this point, but as private ones, no one has shown any interest until now, but in any case we're going to encourage and try to get it their own vertical in the future, it would be unspeakable to say how much time we need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78330	Thank you. And one correction by Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78331	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On the verge of correction, it is more complementary because I know, Mr. Secretary of State said he was proud of increasing the number of students, but not only of increasing the number of students I know, but also of increasing the number of teacher staff, because the last few years has employed over 250 new teachers, teachers in art schools, which on behalf of music and dance schools I thank the Ministry and Secretary of State and his associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78332	Which is the provision of the musical rules of procedure for this provision. I close the debate, interrupt the session, resume tomorrow at 9:30 with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade with the Final Bill and then that set of pension laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-09-28-0.u78333	We move to the Art Education Bill's proposal, it was first reading, PZ No. 868. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a law on artistic education is adopted. Secondly, all comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be forwarded to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage and let's vote on the proposed conclusion. This proposal for a conclusion was accepted by the majority of the 95 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. We will continue the work of the 24th session with the agenda item announced, which is: 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 869 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr Ruđer Friganovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
