ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68938	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session. - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Youth Programme in the Work Programme and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme (2007-2013).) emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 704 Proposer of the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Education, Science, Culture, European Integration. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports Ivana Mrkonjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Memorandum of Understanding between the EU and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Youth Action Programme and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme was signed in Bruge on 7 December 2010. Since it is an international contract that represents a multi-annual financial commitment, it is proposed to adopt the Law on Confirmation of this Memorandum. In the framework of the negotiations on Chapter 26 – Education, culture has taken over the obligation of full inclusion in both programmes. The Agency for Mobility and EU Programmes was established as part of the 2007 preparatory process. From 2008 to 2010 through the IPA project Preparation measures from EU funds and the state budget were financed by the establishment of an agency, professional training and staff training. An information campaign and the first pilot projects financed has been carried out. Through the IPA fund, around 3m350,000 euros were invested in the preparatory period. In August 2010, the agency and the competent ministry passed an audit by the European Commission, which confirmed accreditation for the implementation of the programme. The Lifelong Learning Programme includes 4 sub-programmes, Comenius, Leonardo da Vinci, Erasmus Grundtvig, and the Transverse Programme covering the entire horizontal education. The Programme enables the public and private sector to participate in mobility and partnership activities. In doing so, the knowledge and skills of participants are enhanced by creating a working force competitive on the European labour market. Participation in the Youth Programme will enable the implementation of the project, such as the exchange of youth, volunteer services, education and networking in the field of work and with young Europe, thus opening up opportunities for mobility and informal learning to young people. The funds for the financial commitments made by the Republic of Croatia are planned and settled in the framework of the budget at the positions of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity and in front of the IPA Access Fund. Since it is centralised programmes for their implementation and direct financing, the Agency is in charge. The national contribution to the full accession of the Youth Programme for 2011 is 1.8m euros, of which 0.47m euros will be settled through the first component of the IPA. The national contribution to the Lifelong Learning Programme is 6m euros, of which IPA million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68940	Thank you. Committees, legislation, education, science and culture, European integration? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club Mr. Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68941	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the distinguished secretary of state with an associate. I would like to say, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, that we welcome the confirmation of this memo, that is, the Law confirming the memorandum of understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Youth Programme in the work and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme. As is known, the Republic of Croatia signed in 2004 to participate in the Community programme on the basis of a framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the EC. By confirming the memorandum of understanding in the Croatian Parliament, it allows institutions from the Republic of Croatia to participate fully in the activities of the programmes in question and in equal status to the institutions of EU member states. As we know, Croatia is waiting 28th place, and then between half a billion and slightly more Europeans will be able to make full use of these programmes, but we are already doing so from this memo. It is particularly important to note that, with the full accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Youth Programme in Action Programme in the field of lifelong learning since 2007-2013, the Croatian Educational System has become part of the European space of lifelong learning, which we hold extremely important. We also point out that this Memorandum of Understanding sets out the principles, criteria, deadlines and conditions for the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the Youth Programme in the work programme and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme for the granting of financial support aimed at international mobility in education and international mobility of young people and the payment of national contributions. This is about two articles of this law that are adopted and confirm a memorandum of understanding signed on 7 December 2010 with an EU representative. He signed the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Dr. Radovan Fuchs. What's more important is that this memorandum has three additions, because that's where these relationships are regulated. And this add-on, conditions and provisions for Croatia's participation in Youth Programmes in the work and Action Programme in the field of lifelong learning 2007-2013. Perhaps what is important, the addition of two that regulates Croatia's financial contribution to the Youth Programme in action and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme. It clearly shows what funding ratios are, and most of these funds paid by the Youth Fund in action and lifelong learning for the use of these programmes will be allocated from the state budget, and one part will be financed from pre-accession funds, therefore, from the EU budget. As an example, I would like to point out that the Youth Programme, in part of the financial contribution of the Republic of Croatia in 2011, will be 1.8m euros, while 0.47m euros will be paid from pre-accession funds. For 2012, the total amount is 2 million euros, of which 0.45 million from pre-accession funds. For 2013 2.2m euros, while 0.47m from pre-accession EU budget funds. It's the same situation from the Lifelong Learning Program where the numbers are a little bit bigger. For 2011 6 million euros, of which 1 million from pre-accession funds, thus the European Union budget, for 2012. 8, of which 1.25 from pre-accession funds and 2013 10, of which 1.3m euros from the European Union budget. And Appendix 3 to this Memorandum is financial control, return of funds and other measures against fraud. Therefore, a very concise, comprehensively elaborated memorandum used by the Republic of Croatia. What is important to say is that the Republic of Croatia has been extremely prepared for this programme, that these programmes are already being implemented in Croatia thanks to the Agency for Mobility and Programmes of the European Union and its activities here and because of our public, I would like to say what the programme for lifelong learning is. We know that today education is the strength of every society that drags on and those programmes that already live in the Republic of Croatia are simply a lifelong learning programme that the European Commission programme aims at all degrees of education and professional training. That's what you need to know. So, as long as we live until then and learn and can constantly develop and the European Union has clearly set up such programmes in which the Republic of Croatia participates, I repeat, and by accepting this memo, then we can almost consider ourselves to be full in this regard. The structure of the Lifelong Learning Program consists of more than one kind of sub-programme, so the program... refers to preschool and school education, Leonardo da Vinci on vocational education and training, program... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] High school education, grand... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] education of adults and transverse programmes relating to the cooperation and innovation of lifelong learning, language learning, the development of information and communication technology, the dissemination of the results of lifelong learning programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In some ways this is the European reference framework based on the competences that are constantly developing and perfecting, and it is good that Croatia is in this already before full membership in these programmes. And there is another programme, Jean Monet, a support programme for institutions and activities in the field of European integration. Youth policy is also particularly important, especially for the age of 13 to 30, as is the case with the European Union, so in youth programmes it aims to encourage the feelings of active European citizenship, solidarity and tolerance among young people, Europeans and the involvement of young people in the creation of the future European Union. We all know that Europe respects diversity, all kinds of identity, cultural, national and in this respect these very programs are the convergence, knowledge, development, life and you are who you are, and you can confirm that in a much broader context of a civilization in which we live. Therefore, the Youth Programme aims at promoting active citizenship of young people, developing solidarity, promoting tolerance among young people, promoting mutual understanding among young people from different countries, developing quality support systems for activities and youth organisations, promoting European cooperation in the field of youth. Similarly, the priority of these programmes is European citizenship, active participation of young people in society, in community life, cultural diversity, inclusion of young people with fewer opportunities because of social, economic, health, geographical and other reasons. In addition to these four constant priorities, there is an annual priority of the Youth Programme in the work established by the European Commission, which is published on the website of our agency. And all those who are already thinking or already having contacts through the Mobility Agency and the European Union programmes can realise their ideas, their wishes in these programmes. Indeed, the Youth Programme enables the implementation of various activities aimed at young people and people working with young people through five actions. I want to especially highlight them, which is: Action 1. Youth exchange, youth exchange, youth initiative and democratic projects for young people. Action 2. The European Voluntary Service, including in Croatia volunteering is well-founded, but somehow we do not apply it, should be made far more secret solidarity, so the European Voluntary Service, volunteering abroad for the benefit of the local community. So we can build on the experiences of very wide space and in our communities, but some often wrongly argue that regionalism can develop the country. This can be done by national states alone with their identity where regional cooperation, cross-border cooperation can help, one small segment. Some have the wrong picture of these relationships because Europe is what it is and in this respect we must learn. Action 3. Youth in the world, youth exchanges and training and networking activities with neighbouring partner countries of the European Union, other countries of the world. Then Action 4. Support systems for young people, different support measures for organisations and persons active in working with young people and Action 5. European cooperation in the youth sector, support for cooperation in the development of youth policy at European level. I do not want to owe it, but I would like to support once again on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club this Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Youth Programme in the work and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme. And I would like once again to underline that the Croatian education system is becoming part of the European... Lifelong learning of this ratification is, in a way, before and before the accession of the European Union and full membership in this part of us, full of justice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68942	Thank you. Club of HSS Mr. Representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. With the full accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Youth Programme in the work and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme from 2011 to 2013 or by active participation of institutions from the Republic of Croatia in joint mobility projects in the field of education and civil society activities with partner institutions from the Member States of the European Union, the Croatian education system becomes part of the European space of lifelong learning. The proposed law confirms the Memorandum of Understanding so that its provisions become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and we at the HSS Club will support its adoption. The Memorandum of Understanding regulates the principles, criteria, deadlines and conditions for the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the Youth Programme and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme for the granting of financial support aimed at international mobility in education and international mobility of young people and the payment of national contributions. For the implementation of the 2011 Lifelong Learning Programme, funding amounting to €41 million and €484 million has been planned in the state budget, and according to the 2011 Memorandum of Understanding the national contribution to the 2011 Lifelong Learning Programme amounts to €6 million, €8 million for 2012, and for 2013. 10 million euros. The amount of membership fee for 2011 according to the average exchange rate of the Croatian National Bank on 20.1.2011 amounts to 44 million and 340 thousand kuna for which not enough funds are provided in the national budget for 2011, and therefore additional funds will be needed for the payment of the national contribution for the Lifelong Learning Programme of 2 million 527 thousand and 516 kuna, as seen in the proposal for this law, to be provided by internal redistribution in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. The development of the 2012 draft budget and the 2013 budget projections will provide also insufficient funding for the payment of the national contribution. For the implementation of the Youth Programme in 2011 funds totalling 12 million 942 thousand kuna were planned. The adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Youth Programme in the Work Programme and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme from 2007 to 2013 is one of the measures of the Economic Recovery Programme. The Memorandum also states that the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Croatia will, in the context of the existing provisions, seek to make the free movement and stay of students, teachers, students and trainers, as well as other participants, as a result of their participation in activities to which the same applies. One of the main features of this Youth Programme is that it is available to everyone because one of his priorities is to include young people who, for social, economic, health, cultural or any other reason, have fewer opportunities than their peers. The objectives of this programme are to promote active citizenship of young people, in particular their European citizenship, to develop solidarity and to promote tolerance among young people, to cultivate social cohesion in the European Union, to promote mutual understanding among young people from different countries, to develop quality systems to support youth activities and opportunities for civil society organisations in the field of youth and to promote European cooperation in the field of youth. Young people through this programme have the opportunity to meet young people from all over Europe, share experiences and enrich them both their local community and community in some other countries. Associations and local and regional public bodies can share experience in working with young people and acquire new skills needed to work with young people, and share experiences with colleagues from all over Europe. They can also receive and send international volunteers, and work together on projects and find international partners. The Lifelong Learning Programme was established by decision of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union in 2006, and continues to be the previous generation of Socrates and Leonardo da Vinci educational programmes related to the years 1985 to 2006. The objective of the programme is to create an advanced knowledge society, sustainable economic development, a greater number of quality jobs and stronger social cohesion in the European Union. The programme promotes cooperation between educational institutions across Europe, mobility of participants in the educational process, development of tolerance and multiculturalism, while also preparing participants for successful participation in the European labour market. The programme is intended for all persons involved in the education process at all levels from preschool education to higher education, i.e. It is intended for students, students, educators, teachers, teachers, administrative staff in kindergartens, schools, universities and other high school institutions as well as those already present in the labour market who are employed in various enterprises, public and private institutions at local, regional and national level, and are engaged in some form of formal or informal education. The programme can also be part of the programme by proposing projects resulting from cooperation between educational institutions, businesses and associations from the Republic of Croatia with those abroad. The institutions of the Republic of Croatia shall register with their project proposals for an open competition, and individuals shall, through their institutions, except in the case of the application of senior years of study of teaching orientation for internship activities abroad. Finally, all of these are reasons why the Croatian Peasants' Club will also support this proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68944	Thank you. The club of representatives of HNS, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68945	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. HNS Club, HSU has always supported such and similar cooperation programmes with the European Union in various areas, so we will also support this proposal for a Memorandum Confirmation Act. If we had conducted this debate last week, we probably wouldn't have had more than a few questions. However, we remained truly surprised by the morning statement by Minister Fuchs on Croatian Radio when he said, quote: "These programmes will allow for the best integration of young people into the European labour market." My colleagues and colleagues, I was deeply convinced that these programs have a completely different goal, to aim at our people, to make our young people especially professionally perfect, to get to know the latest technologies and enable them to what, on the Croatian labour market with their products and their services to be competitive in Europe and the world. If we 100,000 young people currently at the Employment Office are preparing for the European labour market to go to work tomorrow in France, Denmark, Germany, then I do not agree with it, nor the club HNS, HSU. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. Look, we're going in chronological order. Croatia signed a Framework Agreement on Cooperation with the European Union on such and similar projects back in 2004. Then, in February 2007, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out four years ago the Community programmes for which the authorities of the State Administration will launch accession procedures during 2007 and 2008. My colleagues and colleagues, we are now in 2011, so it took three or four years to develop accession programmes for these European Union projects. I can interpret in two ways, first of all, that the government has really been very serious, very thorough and very detailed about all the elements of these programs that we will be involved in and how we will make optimal use of them. On the other hand, this can be interpreted in a very negative context. So we would ask the secretary of state to explain several very important details in his address, I suppose, at the end of this debate, especially in view of this morning's statement by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports. We are interested in one part of this bill, which I will now read to you, the conditions and provisions for surrender, evaluation and selection of requests from institutions, organisations and individuals from the Republic of Croatia that meet the conditions for participation, are the same as those applied to institutions, organisations and individuals in the European Union. It is here that we need to explain the mechanism of selecting those who will be able to go, get resources and learn certain technologies, certain skills to help Croatian economic and other entities to be truly competitive tomorrow on the European and world market. We are interested in further what are the profiles that will especially encourage the Croatian government to perfect themselves. We are particularly interested in what are the economic branches that you see as priority and to which you will be particularly careful and especially trying to ensure that workers within these economic branches have a priority in training. Is that the Croatian pharmaceutical industry? Is that shipbuilding? Is that road construction, low construction? Is that the food industry? Is that Djuro Djakovic? Is that Conchar? What kind of economic operators are these? Has the Croatian Ministry of Economy, together with you, designed this project in these four years? And it would be good if we, MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and Croatian citizens really knew how optimally to spend the funds provided for the implementation of these projects? And it's not about small funds. In total, this year, only to find a table, this year will total 7.8m euros, 10m euros, and 12.2m euros in 2013. So these are significant funds, and it would be a very significant and minimum of decency to know in which directions and priorities these funds will be spent. Furthermore, I'd like to warn you again about what I said last week. When we compare some of these agreements that we sign with the European Union, then sometimes we are surprised, when last week we had the assistance of the European Union in restoring Croatian cultural heritage, then we saw that the European Union will pay the funds for the reconstruction of the workhouse in Vukovar, in a way that only works will be limited to two years, that for a full year thereafter, the European Union will be allowed to pay off the funds for the reconstruction of the Working House, and if necessary, it can be extended with reasonable reasons for the payment of European Union's assistance. In this case, we see that there are much stricter rules. When we are paying the national contribution to the European Union, then look clearly at this agreement a little more carefully, and you will see that we have to pay within 30 days after the invoice is laid down, and then this tight interest is on the way. Therefore, very strictly when we are paying and much more flexible when the European Union helps us to realise certain projects. So I am just making this clear because it would be good for individual ministries to agree to strive, on about the same terms, to commit the Republic of Croatia to European projects, but also the European Union to our projects and our interests, the interests of our citizens and institutions. This would be what we would really ask the secretary of state to explain to us, details about ourselves, especially when it comes to lifelong learning, technology transfer, from mastering certain skills, it is important to see what you and what areas of economic activity you gave priority to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68946	Thank you. One correction, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68947	Well, here I was in part of this statement by Minister Fuchs who said that... They are preparing for the European market. [[You don't understand.]] I am correcting this allegation, counting on a statement that I understood quite differently, which is that young people are preparing for the European market, prejudged that the Republic of Croatia will be part of this European market, just as all these educational programmes, the education system becomes part of the European system of youth education, and I support that with a weak mobility quota, so here we have already one programme where we are already Europe, which is Erasmus, where we have, we do not have a very large percentage of young people in the mobility area. I think Minister Fuchs thought Croatia was already Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68948	HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68949	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I would not like to, as Mr. Maric said, that Friday is the day to raise hands, but here we are today discussing something very important for, and what is a very important segment of our society, which is young and lifelong education and learning of young people, it is really too little for me to dare and say this kind of assessment. When it came to our banks, the capitalisation was carried out, considerable funds were invested and then the banks were sold for less than the amount of capitalisation. This was done by Croatian citizens, Croatian taxpayers. Here is today the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and Croatia, on Croatia's participation in the programme, in two programmes. One is young and the other is the Lifelong Learning Programme from 2007 to 2013. The state of Croatia will allocate no less than 30m euros for these 2 programmes according to the data contained in this legislative proposal. So, for the Youth Programme at work 6 million euros in 3 years, 2011, 2012, 2013, and for the Lifelong Learning Programme 24 million euros. And then these 100,000 young people have a better chance than now to go and find a job in EU countries. Since jobs, according to the latest data from yesterday, can't even be obtained. When we talk about the Youth Programme in action regarding the creation and learning of tolerance and solidarity, then about the active participation of young people in social events, then volunteering, not volunteering, then I guess this applies to one example when a lawyer who cannot get a job clearly in her profession has them in all employment offices in Croatia, I also know a father who has a son and daughter who ended up right in Osijek – none can get a job anywhere. So when she works as a cleaning lady at the hospital. Well, then I guess she has to be tolerated and she needs to be tolerated, so she learns tolerance that way. The European labour market, so Croatia is preparing to export or export so young people who are here and so far say some figures that 10 thousand young people annually leave with their stomachs after bread to other countries. Is this figure also going to be this lifelong learning even more and more because here we have created the integration conditions for the European labour market, the labour market fluctuation to make Croatia actually blacker than 7% of higher education perhaps even lower. So 7% of those educated in society in our Croatian society. It's true that nowhere around here is said to have no vision or strategy. In which references, which profiles, which of the economic branches of Croatia are priority in order for these programmes to have priorities that, therefore, of this funding in the amount of, say, 24m euros in lifelong learning, would be invested more. What is more important to Croatia. Perhaps the areas where young people can find a job in Croatia right now. A few years ago when the parliamentary elections were held, one of the parties that appeared in the elections was also a youth party. She had her own program and lifelong learning. It was clearly based on an international contract between Croatia and the EU, which was still signed in Brussels on 22 November 2004, and the party appeared in the 2007 elections. In addition to this problem of hiring young people who weigh most on them, which is the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia, which causes revolt among young people in the Republic of Croatia as we see for ourselves or do not see for ourselves and hear of their problems. There are a number of other youth problems that other countries that have survived so many wars have, and these are free kindergartens, etc. So here we are dealing with the Youth Programme in action and on the lifelong learning that will say that approximately, as the Secretary of Resorship, Minister Fuchs said this morning, we are allowing the Croats to see Europe even though they have seen it without this programme, although our young, smart, educated, intelligent people have been obsessed with while studying foreign managers, recognising their minds, and unfortunately Croatia does not recognise and how much it is only in higher education employment offices that is said in Mr Doric's previous debate so that I would not be able to prolong it, these are tens or hundreds of thousands. If I knew this 30m euros would improve the situation, if I knew it would fix it, then I would really be more than happy. Although the HDSSB club will support this proposal because we think that any investment in young people will still bring some benefit. If anything at least expand their knowledge and what it says here and what someone said about learning solidarity, tolerance, meeting Europe and European traditions, etc. However, Article 2 of this legislative proposal states - except for the injustice when it comes to paying in which Croatia is obliged to pay these fees within 30 days, except for this injustice, and in reciprocity when it comes to some other problems, then the EU has a year and more to pay, there is an article 2 in which it writes: "This memorandum of understanding applies during the period of the programme, so until 2013. However, if the EU decides to extend the duration without significant changes within the programme, this memorandum shall be appropriate and automatically extended. Therefore, the European Union reserves the right to extend this period until further notice, clearly on the cost of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Very interesting, what it continues to say about our negotiating extraordinary mentality towards Europe, or about agreeing to the tutelage of Europe over the Republic of Croatia and over the thoughts and brains of our negotiators and our policy and our country. I don't know, it can't be hit so badly at the market and arranged for some things like it's written here, and as a matter of fact, it's this contract and clearly and loudly said. That's not even the godmother's way of making a deal with someone she sells cheese and smokes with. It seems that here when we talk about lifelong learning and when it is said that Croatia may unload its Employment Service, whose unemployment rate has risen to 20%, in Slavonski County over 30%, over 35%, we continue to hold records in terms of twice the number of unemployed but on average in Croatia. It seems that some people are still thinking here about the one that was long ago said that it's not an intelligence problem, nor is there a brain that has two marks of a kilo. That's what hurts most of us, that's what hurts young people, that's why, because of the way young people think and leave this country, because they're underrated, because no one leads, a little who takes care of them. Now that this is some investment in young people and some of them are likely to use this legislative proposal in terms of their lifelong learning, advancement, development and that they will also create programmes for in terms of Youth in the work of the HDSSB Club will vote for this bill but clearly with these comments made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68950	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Nevio Šetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to correct a quote by Mr. Grubisic, he says when these programmes are completed, the young will go to find a job in the European Union countries. That's completely incorrect because the intensity of this is completely opposite. If you want to live in one community and be a full member of about half a billion Europeans who will live, then you need to know culture, ways, communication and in that same European Union will be our budget from which we will be able to withdraw funds, therefore, we need to know, communicate, develop and see that it is not all ideal there and that we can apply it much better at home. That just strengthens our identity on this side.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68952	Mr. Iron Flego's SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68953	My colleagues and colleagues, this is about a law that is affecting every country's strategic activity, i.e. in training young people so that the labour market is better equipped and that the competitiveness of the environment in which this is happening will grow. It is an area where Croatia suffers to express a deficit, in the area of education, where the qualification structure of the Croatian population is insufficient and the deficit should be compensated. It can be compensated so that from the beginning of education students, students of appropriate areas, appropriate occupations, but we must be aware from the beginning of education to the acquisition of high professional training takes 16 to 17 years. There is a much more efficient, much more flexible, much more usable way of equiping labour markets and training people for work, and that is lifelong learning. This Law speaks of lifelong learning. It is the most effective way of education, it is the most efficient way of persuasion, specialization education or retraining. Today, already in the 40-year working age in developed industrial countries, people change over 3 professions, and for each profession they have not been educated since the beginning, but are actually educated by what they call lifelong learning. This way of education is the most efficient time because, as soon as possible, new qualifications are acquired, it is the most efficient human being, because people are allowed to acquire new qualifications and specialisation within a relatively short period of time, it is the most efficient financial period because, in fact, overall education does not last for 17 years, or, say, 5 years, how long a cycle of higher education takes, but it lasts significantly less, it is the most efficient market, because it allows people to retrain or specialize in the current needs of the labour market. Lifelong learning is mandatory in almost all areas because knowledge, given the progress of science, is now extremely rapidly getting old. In a whole series of developed universities, professors especially in medicine, biology, in electronic professions tell their fellow students and colleagues what you will learn in the first year, when you reach the undergraduate study will certainly become obsolete. Today, it is impossible to use new technologies with, for example, chemical education or biology education that ended 20 years ago without new knowledge, so lifelong learning is an obligation of every environment that takes care of its people but also of market and competitiveness. Lifelong learning enables us to acquire new knowledge and skills that are very effective that we can learn from examples of countries with good experience. Scandinavian countries are among the most competitive countries in the world, according to data published in 2007 in Scandinavian countries 20 per cent and some per cent of the population each year passed one course of lifelong learning, otherwise speaking each employee during the 3.5 years of his working life has passed one qualification or qualification. It is equally necessary for a teacher who must be as you say "up to give" actually at the level of the latest knowledge that he could effectively educate students and pupils. Lifelong learning therefore significantly improves employment not only but also employment, for people who already have an interest train them with new skills and skills. In order to be fully effective, we need to be compatible with the EU and this is what this document is talking about. We need to start operating according to the rules by which the EU's functionator is. So I hope the consequences of this law and the abolition of that nonsense that was passed in 2006 is the Law on adult education, although we from Brussels have made a recommendation to make a law on lifelong learning an integrated lifelong learning "Instituting Lifelong Learning" that was a European programme, for which colleagues and colleagues to warn you was foreseen 13 million euros for the first stage. We didn't pick anything up from that. Turkey participated with us in the negotiations together, she picked up more than 8m euros. Are we so much more incompetent than Turkey? It will also mean that the agency should do its job as it... in Europe. It is necessary to train for the accreditation of lifelong learning programmes. That's it. that a whole series of programmes that train people and give new qualifications is accredited. This also means that the agency should encourage the development of a lifelong learning network. That lifelong learning isn't just possible in big cities. This also means that modular arrangements should be made for the acquisition of different educations for the acquisition of qualifications. Otherwise, I'm already using the problem when a man in his youth decides to be an autolimar and then, during his occupation, he finds that he's much more interested in autoelectrics. And he spent three years in autolimary education. And then he says, well, I can't be educated for an electrician right now because I'm three years old. And by chance, a happy person from the Lifelong Learning Agency tells him, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, All you have to do is absorb five more modules. And then I go to lifelong learning and then I master one by one, and when I finish the last one, then I'm actually an electrician. And then my grandmother hears it and says, "Sonk, if you were a little smarter, you know, then you'd be learning about autoelectrics and autolimars right away, so with five extra modules, you'd get two jobs, not one. So education must also be modularly organised, which will not be any Croatian innovation because it exists in the world, only this should be taken over and implemented by us. It exists in Europe and it will be our obligation to join Europe. In that sense, we will uphold this law. But as you know, colleagues and fellow MPs, the laws are just empty papers. It is much more important to train ourselves to implement the law and to improve the improvement in this country, this country, its competitiveness and its market efficiency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68954	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Bianca Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68955	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State So here is today the time of economic and social change and the rapid transition of society to knowledge society, and the democratic situation under which Europe's population is increasingly growing challenges for a new approach to education and learning. And that is why this idea of lifelong learning or learning activities is increasingly being discussed during schooling, throughout life, with the aim of improving knowledge, skills, abilities both within the personal and within the civic, social perspective. For the first time, the idea of this lifelong learning is also mentioned in Plato’s Republic, and over the years, this means more and more acquiring and modernising all kinds of skills, knowledge, qualifications from preschool to post-retirement periods. Promoting the development of knowledge and skills that will enable citizens to adapt to knowledge society and active participation in all areas of social and economic life, thus affecting each individual's own future. This before us today is one of the laws that represents the harmonisation of our legislation with the acquis of the EU, and in the negotiating position for Chapter 26 - Education and culture, which has been temporarily closed since 2006, Croatia’s readiness for full access to Community programmes has been demonstrated. The EU, the Lifelong Learning Programme and the Youth Programme. The memorandum was signed on 7 December 2010, and since it is an international contract that is financially binding and the Republic of Croatia needs legislation. With Croatia's full participation in the action programme and in the field of lifelong learning, it is possible to report individuals and institutions in Croatia on a tender opened by the EU Mobility and Programmes Agency and the European Commission, and accordingly to implement projects under the programmes in question in Croatia. This programme as the largest EU programme in the field of education includes 4 basic and secondary education programmes, vocational education, higher education and adult education, and a Transverse programme covering all horizontal education. The aim is to contribute to the development of Europe as an advanced knowledge society with sustainable economic development, stronger social cohesion and to increase the number of quality jobs for citizens. Here when we talk about the EU on the development of Europe, of course I also think of Croatia as a future EU member. This programme enables the public and private sector to participate in the activities of young people, activities and mobility of students, students, employees and unemployed and partnership activities, means work on joint projects, together with partners from the EU or EFTA States. This programme opens up numerous opportunities for mobility and informal learning to young people and to all others involved in working with young people, regardless of their education or social or cultural membership. Ensuring financial support for Youth Programmes will enable the implementation of projects such as youth exchange, volunteering, education, networking in the field of youth work, and the development of new partnerships in the EU. The funds are secured meanings within the position of the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Defence as part of the pre-accession IPA Fund. The national contribution of the Youth Programme in action is 1.8 million, which is half a million from the IPA programme's first component. A colleague, Maric, here in the Parliament about ten days ago, said in one of his discussions that power comes out of function, but that real real power comes from knowledge. I absolutely agree with him, but I also add that the knowledge we acquire as children or as young people will not last long, should be upgraded, and an active continuation of learning is an important form of life-long learning. Motivation and diversity and the possibility of education are a basic condition for successful lifelong learning, so this memoranda is one of the quality steps in this direction and I fully support it because I really believe in that old Bolivian proverb that incomplete knowledge is more dangerous than ignorance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68956	Thank you. Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68957	Thank you very much, esteemed Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Youth Programme in the Work Programme and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme 2007-2013. On the basis of the Framework Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community since 2004, assumptions have been made for the proposal for a law on the confirmation of this Memorandum. The Memorandum allows for the equal status of institutions from the Republic of Croatia with all institutions from the Member States of the European Union. The Youth Programme and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme 2007-2013 will allow institutions from the Republic of Croatia to adapt to the Croatian education system in cooperation with partner institutions from the member states of the European Union in order to become an integral part of the European Lifelong Learning System. In order to achieve the programme, it is necessary to engage individuals and institutions that meet the conditions for participation and to find at least one partner from one of the Member States of the European Union. This would create the possibility of obtaining European Union financial assistance for projects and activities. I particularly support and believe that it is necessary to carry out the coordinated management of the implementation of programme activities at national level, but also at lower levels, local and regional level. In this process, institutions should be prepared and continued education should be carried out in order to achieve the memorandum. Control and measures are fully supported, and I suggest that deadlines be established, time frames for reports. I'm in favour of this memo-confirmation bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68958	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68959	Thank you. A colleague, Djurdjevic, was talking about a problem that we are all aware of. In fact, it seems to me that it is not enough just to accept this memo, but also in the spirit of what my colleague Flego was saying, to change the mental set of all of us in approach to what we could call lifelong learning, and that means first of all that people in Croatia must understand that the education they acquire is not once and for all given. But we need to make it easier to get new knowledge and that, as Col. Flego pointed out, with minimal obstacles you can change or supplement acquired knowledge, so you can get used to changing the jobs you do during your working life. It seems to me that one of the great obstacles to us, it would be called this mental circuit that says when I was educated for something I have to deal with all my life is exactly the team, although the daily experiences of our old people say that they've very much been educated all their lives, if they think about those who worked from agriculture to fishing, to anything else, they're on an instinctive and everyday level of life, and they're very much applying what we're trying to do now, sometimes into high-mented or dry parameters.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68960	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68961	Thank you very much. If you notice in my statement that I have said that the implementation of the programme requires that individuals and institutions who meet the conditions for participation and find a partner in the countries of the European Union be engaged. And this I absolutely agree with you and I know in my address to me at the Faculty of Engineering at the University when they solemnly receive diplomas for their hard work to say for that piece of paper that a lot of sweat has been spilled, a lot of drunk coffee, but that's just the beginning, that throughout life you should be educated, educated, perfected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68962	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68963	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. As a member of the Academic Community, it is logical that I support every form of youth mobility, especially young people in the process of higher education and young scientists. So we have before us a law relating to the signing of a memorandum that is related to two programmes, one programme of youth mobility, one programme is therefore the one related to lifelong learning. This signing should therefore enable Croatia to participate fully in all the activities these programmes offer and in an indirect manner in the integration of the Croatian education system into a common education system of the European Union. These programmes are among the most important, if not the most important European Union programmes in the field of education which have been found before Croatia, especially because they allow young people from Croatia to become equally involved in the area of mobility that governments in the field of education in Europe. That this is a very important issue shows a whole series of European Union documents which, since the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, defines a specific area of community action in education, vocational education, or in dealing with young people. Therefore, a whole series of activities that need to improve education in all Member States of the European Union have been established in this Treaty, of which young students and teachers are just encouraged to exchange, i.e. in cooperation with international institutions and organisations. Then fostering the exchange of psychological social workers, encouraging the exchange of young people in general, etc. It is known that the 2000 Lisbon Strategy defines a series of objectives, among which the most important one is that the European Union should become the most dynamic and competitive economy, based on knowledge. So the priorities of what is a way to achieve such a high goal are recognised. Of course, some things are not going well and neither have been going well, so another new Europe 2020 Strategy has been adopted in order to achieve these objectives, which has encouraged certain modernisations in education, higher education, science and everything else that relies on this area throughout the European Union. It is interesting to note, the strategy particularly highlights the goals of reducing the number of students who leave primary and secondary school too early and bringing about 10%, which is a very high goal in relation to Croatia. Equally defined is the goal of raising the number of highly educated young people to 40%, which is an extremely high goal for Croatia, at this point difficult and imagined. So the laws that are before us refer to this particular area. In any case, I encourage the mobility of young people as one of the key things in the education of young people but also in general in their development simply because mobility and knowledge-sharing ensure a significantly higher level of quality, a significantly higher level of dynamicity and creativity of young people, and thus their entire development rises to a much higher level, i.e. a higher level with the ultimate goal of obtaining a quality and professionally trained young man who, in the Republic of Croatia, will, with all his creativity, knowledge and knowledge of the conditions in which other institutions work, other economic operators from the entire economy of the European Union, ensure the same thing in Croatia. Yesterday there was a show on "Good Morning Croatia" where there was an international exchange of students. The fact is that the part still works very poorly in Croatia. The fact is also that the exchange is even worse in that direction, so in the arrival of foreign students in Croatia. It's even said there to measure it in differences. Therefore, youth mobility is very important to the European Union, to centres in the European Union, in the countries of the European Union, but also to the mobility of foreign students and other young people towards Croatia. Youth mobility is very important because it is simply one of the fastest, most efficient, I would say the most direct way to adapt Croatia to the European Union. Because ultimately the future of Croatia is right in young people and they are exactly at the age when they are the easiest to accept what is to say better or what is more modern, it doesn't have to be better anyway. But they quickly skip those language barriers, which concern the establishment of those basic communication forms, etc. Today in Internet, Facebook, Twitter and other social networks, young people communicate with the whole world. If we are talking about the mobility of students and students, then this specifically means that one mobility ensures access to all literary and other data sources that do not have to be fully published in certain publications. You have a mass of data that are purely what the Bureau would tell me that are nowhere unpublished but very interesting for certain research. Young people have the opportunity to listen to the world's leading lecturers, scientists. And many of them even who have run or received Nobel Prizes for certain achievements, which in some other conditions will not have opportunities. What particularly encourages me to support any mobility of young people is the mobility of members of the academic community, so above all young scientists. This is exactly how it will be possible to get to know these young people with one new system, with a new system of higher education, with a new system of scientific research, a whole organisation of science, etc. One contact is ensured with scientists who may not be able to meet with them here in Croatia, let alone cooperate with them. Ensuring entry into some kind of joint research. A joint international project shall be provided, etc. It's just that today it's unimaginable that you have a scientist, to open his resume, and you have no record of him being at a study room somewhere in his time of development at one of the famous and recognized universities in the field of his scientific work. And that's what I'm going to believe with one of these programs anyway. I would say that in Croatia, in the good part, this part of the international exchange still does not work for this reason on the one hand that systematically some things are not set right. On the other hand, the popularization of such an exchange is very weak. I won't talk much about popularization in a wide field, so at the state level. But I'm going to say that unfortunately, there is still some colleges and higher universities that teachers, therefore, teachers, are under-emphasising the importance of international student exchange. I'm not going to say that we have a professor who wasn't alone across the border to see any of it or not to say it to the end. Some didn't even go to the international symposium across the border. From some personal experience, since I have been on the study board three times even before these programs. I know there are various models, various ways, but looking back on this presentation, Doric, I think this guy's statements that we educate people for the international labour market can be interpreted in various ways. You should be careful with those statements. The goal is to educate a man to do his job in Croatia, and to establish that the international market is part of the international market. So we must educate people to work in Croatia, to develop Croatia, and then Croatia will be part of the European Union in the full meaning in which it should be, not just formally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68964	Thank you. In 10 and 35, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. HDSSB representative club, 5-minute debate, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68965	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I really must underline what Mr Grubisic said in his debate. We at the HDSSB club support this law, this proposal for an agreement, but again we point out the problem in Croatia is not only the problem of highly educated unemployed, but the full unemployment of young people. Today, we have more than 335 thousand unemployed, most of whom are young people between the ages of 25 and 34. Almost a third of the unemployed are so young people, and we are talking about investing 30m euros in the next 3 years. Yes, we will invest and that should be done, but we are going back to what Mr Grubisic was saying in the opening and said, that money will be invested in the education of people, their requalification, but where will they work in Croatia, when there is no work in Croatia? We made a decision at Parliament's presidency last week that we would not label ourselves with names, that there would be no insult, that there would be nothing, so I will stick to it. So in that sense, I will say that the Croatian state today is indeed a land of knowledge. Young people from college don't go to the desk, they go straight to work. Those young people who are not working, come to a relaxing protest on Mark’s square, where they are welcomed here and receive in their arms a kind and smiling SWAT team, offering them instead of a cup of tea, cooked sausages and cookies. Today’s debate on young people in action and lifelong learning means that our youngsters do not have to fear for work, they will know what they will do for a lifetime. The young will be in search of work, and until they find him their whole lives they will study and end two, three or more colleges, so when they grow old and stop being young, they may get lucky and get a job out of dreams and apply all acquired knowledge with two, three schools in the care of sheep, the act of Samaritans, the census every 10 years and so on. You saw the young in action yesterday, things going into action, both retired and unemployed, both hungry and defenders, and I'm afraid if they go into action, the ruling would be able to learn lifelongly in the reading room of the Remetic Penitentiary. And in the end, there is still something nice, news from the European Congress of Transplantologists prove the success of Croatian medics, so the British transplantologists boasted that they had transplanted one patient's spine and that he had recovered so well within a record time period and was on the street looking for a job. German doctors boasted that they had transplanted one heart into two men, and they were on record in three days so well recovered and already on the street looking for a job. And the victory was won by Croatian transplantologists who said you're nothing, we brought in a woman and two men in the Croatian state, and they brought half the population into the street looking for a job in record time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68966	Thank you. Final review, State Secretary Ivana Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's just a brief review of your comments, or answers to your questions. First of all, the view of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is that the accession of these two programmes means a lifelong programme, an integrated programme of lifelong learning and a youth programme in action of exceptional importance for young people in the Republic of Croatia, as it allows them to gain new skills and new skills in the perspective of Croatia's recent entry into the European Union to be fully competitive in the common, meaning the European market. And that's what Minister Radovan Fuchs said on the radio today. Furthermore, Mr Grubisic, I still have to reply to your remarks on how we negotiated in Brussels, and that we have submitted to the demands of the European Union. Unfortunately, I must say to you, and fortunately, I must say that this memorandum that we have signed is one of the types of memos, and Article 2 that you only quoted in part simply further actually underlines that it is a partner relationship, because if, by chance, the European Union decides to extend this programme for any reason, the memorandum remains in force, so that red tape is not simply accumulated, and a Member State, as it writes in the second part of this item, has the right to cancel it within a month. So it's just a type. Excuse me? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Anyway, it's one of the most normal partner-and-type relationships without any licking. And in the end, I will only look back at how the establishment of the Mobility and EU Programmes Agency has been under way, i.e. how the competitions it is conducting are under way. So it is true that after the conclusion of the negotiations in Chapter 26, it took a certain time for the agency to be established, but it was not because Croatia was unable to implement this within a short period of time, but because the European Union was taught by the experience from the last wave of enlargement to put additional demands on just such agencies that are centrally implemented by programmes, i.e. where the Union directly from Brussels delivers money in this particular case in Zagreb. The Union has prescribed a certain procedure, the procedure lasted for two years, the agency has successfully completed the procedure, and that is how it tells you the fact that it is of those 3 and a half million euros I mentioned at the outset. So far, 96% of the funds have been used, and the agency receives 3 times more reports every day than it can finance. And finally, let me explain to you how the project's reporting process is going. So, Croatia when it joined the programme, since it is not an EU member, is not in charge of defining topics or as Mr Doric said strategic priorities. The topics of these projects are defined in Brussels. What Croatia is responsible for is to implement these projects, i.e. to conduct a tender, to better prepare and explain to people the type of competition, means potential users, and it seems to me at the moment one of our best agencies dealing with this job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68968	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The last sentence spoken by Mrs. Secretary of State that the topics and priorities will be set in Brussels say that I was right in that first part. And if it were you, you said Croatia had the right to break up. Which means that if the EU asks for an extension, it means that it has not fulfilled what we are discussing today. That's the right attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68970	I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the debated agenda points. The first Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the EU and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Youth Programme and the Lifelong Learning Action Programme 2007-2013 was an emergency procedure, the debate was concluded. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding between the EU and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Youth Programme and the Action Programme to assist lifelong learning 2007. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? I find that with 94 votes for and 5 abstentions this final bill has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As the Vice-President said, the report is regularly submitted, in accordance with a statement by the Croatian Parliament and the Government on joint action in the EU membership negotiations process and concerns the reporting period from 1 July to 31 December 2010, when the Kingdom of Belgium chaired the EU Council. I would also like to point out that the diplomatic and political preparation of this 6-month period began clearly earlier and remind me of the visit of the prime minister of Belgium Letterme, who was in Zagreb on June 1st. Also during the Belgian presidency, meetings were held at the highest level and at the level of prime ministers, foreign ministers, state secretaries. Certainly an important contribution to Belgium's overall information on Croatian activities was also a visit to the Committee of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Integration at the end of last year. During this negotiating period, 1, and temporarily closed as many as 8 negotiating chapters, bringing Croatia to a position at the end of 2010 to have 34 open chapters and 28 temporarily closed. Three Intergovernmental Accession Conferences were held. One at ministerial level, two at the replacement level, and on which Croatia closed Chapter 12. – Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy, Chapter 32. – Financial supervision, it was during the summer of July 27th, then chapters were closed on 5 November – Freedom of movement of capital, Transport policy and institutions. The last Intergovernmental Conference, held on 22 December, closed 3 also very important chapters – Justice, Freedom and Security, chapter relating to the environment and chapter relating to foreign security and defence policy. This time I would particularly like to underline the fact that Chapter 34 applies to institutions on the same day and is open and closed due to such a methodology of negotiations, and its closure means that on the EU side it is truly estimated that Croatia is in the final phase of the accession process. Croatia has also continued to work intensively to meet all the criteria and obligations arising from the accession negotiations and has met all the criteria for closing chapters that have been closed during this period. At the same time, the government has stepped up its work in co-operation with the National Committee for Monitoring of the negotiations on chapters that are still open. In particular, Chapter 11 relating to agriculture and rural development and regional policy and the coordination of structural instruments whose closure is likely to follow already at the next Intergovernmental Conference in April this year. Croatia has met 99 out of 127 criteria for opening and closing negotiating chapters. It is also important to point out that during the Belgian presidency, the second round of the so-called round was launched. monitoring of temporary closed chapters. So, a mechanism that enables the continued work of the Croatian government on commitments made in boredom during these past years to temporarily closed chapters. The European Commission's report, presented in November, also showed that Croatia meets its commitments in quality and thus strengthens its credibility tomorrow as a member of the EU. I would also like to point out that the work of the working groups of Croatian experts on the part of the EU has continued, especially the working group on the draft Accession Treaty, as it has continued to work on how progress is made in certain chapters of the negotiations. For this period, it is also important to mention regularly the European Commission's Annual Report, which as we know with the strategic document also contained documents very detailedly analysed all obligations whether they were the political-economic sectoral character and the Council conclusions that followed in December of last year and which practically stated that the end of the negotiations was within reach of the hand. What is also important is that activities continued during the Belgian Presidency in the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We also had a meeting of political dialogue with representatives of the European Commission in October in Zagreb. A meeting of the Stabilisation and Association Committee was held in December, and all reports and information was continuously submitted to the European Commission to complete the negotiations on the remaining open chapters. I would also like to reiterate the important role of the Croatian Parliament in the negotiations process, in particular the National Committee, the Committee on European Integration, as well as all committees that are constantly doing key activities relating to the harmonisation of Croatian legislation, where we can conclude that we have met the main obligations of our commitments in the process of harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. In the coming period, it is important to bear in mind the upcoming European Commission Report on Chapter 23, which will be on the Commission's College in Strasbourg on 9 March of this year, after which analysis and evaluation we will have a better insight into the continued dynamics of closing this key chapter for the overall negotiation process. In the coming months, Croatia will step up all activities aimed at informing Croatian citizens about the results of the negotiations and will step up efforts to implement the communication strategy, especially through media use, with already many activities that we have done throughout Croatia when different conferences, meetings, meetings dedicated to numerous target groups and the sensation of citizens in all Croatian counties are organised. The Hungarian Presidency, as part of the trio, currently chaired in the European Union by three Spain, Belgium, Hungary, has very constructively continued the activities that we started during the Spanish and Belgian Presidency, and with full confidence we can say that we share the common ambition of ending this process by June of this year, and therefore two intergovernmental conferences are scheduled for April and June with the possibility of an appointment of another if the need arises during May. An important contribution to the negotiation process was recently adopted by the European Parliament's resolution, following a longtime rapporteur for Croatia, Parliamentarian Hannes Swoboda, who was largely accepted on Wednesday (February 16th), and is speaking in a parliament document for the first time about June as a possible date for the conclusion of the negotiations. As before, the government will regularly report to the Croatian Parliament on the upcoming activities and, in particular, these key chapters that are still ahead of us, they refer as we know about competition, justice and fundamental rights, and ultimately, financial and budgetary provisions that will define the financial package for Croatia during the current financial perspective by the end of 2013. Thank you very much. So much for the introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68974	Thank you. The Committee on European Integration? The Environmental Protection Committee? I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68975	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. As we can see, this report concerns this period of 1. 7 to 31. 12. 2010 It is certain that Croatia is after 31. 12. Take some steps, not just a step, perhaps two in approaching the European Union. It seems that after these catastrophic social and economic parameters, Europe remains the only valve it can play. What else is left when the prime minister admits that opportunities in the country are worse than those spoken about by the media and that soon she may not be able to retire and that her team is surrounding her, two months after the government's reconstruction is literally catastrophic. He admits everything, he knows everything, and in the election, we know he won't. However, to be understood, what is really the key to all these referendums around the European Union that are planned there sometime in the 10th month of 2011. Probably the latest homogenisation of the party in power ahead of the 2011 elections. However, I don't think it helps anyone anymore, citizens want to change, feel and know what's going on in the country and are clearly looking for new faces. But let's let it go now. The key to closing these chapters is certainly this chapter 8. Market competition, and chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights. Now we're going in line, Chapter 8, which is the key to what we can see from these arguments, is obviously shipbuilding. From 2000 to 2010 the circus is 28 billion kunas of various guarantees and subsidies given from the state budget for the rehabilitation of Croatian shipbuilding. With these 28 billion kunas, someone will say 150 thousand new jobs could be opened, and these days we are selling shipyards for 1 kuna and taking over 12 billion kuna guarantees that the existing shipbuilding industry cannot repay. Oil oil if nothing else, at least this time has now dealt well with all these challenges, even though I'm afraid that the oil comes hard days. 28 billion kuna and a 4 billion euro circus. How many ships have the gentlemen delivered over the last 10 years of the circus in equivalent to 50 billion kuna? Or the ship's subsidy was 60%, if we subtracted one Oily, then the subsidy per ship was over 70%. And normally, a man asks himself a question, as far as it's concerned, it's clear to the shipbuilders that he needs to help, and he needs to save the shipbuilding industry, but he can't do it anymore. And so are the gentlemen with the agricultural incentives. Again, I am talking about Chapter 8 of this very day, some of the union centres in the government will talk about it among other things. You know how much the 2.2 kuna earned in Agror went through the form of incentives from the state budget. One kuna. 1 kuna at 2.2 kuna. In 2009, 3.6 billion kuna support was paid while the purchased food production was 8 billion kuna. HBOR is to agriculture that 853 million loans, and 110 economies do not return loans. For capital investments for two years, the state has given €579 million, etc. So it can be said that in 10 years, the state has given about 35 billion kuna for agriculture, free to say grants, i.e. Support. So shipbuilding plus agriculture in 10 years was about 65 billion kuna. 65 billion kuna was the budget of the Republic of Croatia in 2002. With other support in 10 years, the Republic of Croatia has allocated 80 billion kuna. The 2003 budget was 80.5 billion kuna, 2004. 83.1 billion kuna, 2005. 87.9 billion kuna. So for incentives, there was as much money as the budget was, for example, in Croatia in 2004, when opportunities in the country were incomparably more favourable. It's clear you should encourage all of this, but I'm a little bothered that some of the subjects when they say the word here in Istria like that. TESU prefers to be sent into bankruptcy, and the company has an export programme instead of trying to help them with a million or two million euros. I personally also think it's time to restructure these support, not to put out a fire where there is no effect, but to enable the resuscitation and those branches that can outlive this crisis and that money always goes to those who can bring it back. I know that such principles would trigger a revolution for that renting division or receiving that money, but something will have to be done in due course. Only one example in the textile industry, and probably elsewhere, if you don't have 20 workers you can't get support, and if one who has 20 workers 10 times in 10 years as otherwise change socks so to say changes the name of the company, it sends the existing one into bankruptcy, the money cap, and no benefit from that state has. And finally, gentlemen, we must also draw the line and those who receive, say, those support and those who have previously pushed the companies into bankruptcy should say a lot, so it doesn't go any further. That's Chapter 8. Chapter 23, which speaks perhaps even more often than this chapter 8 concerning these incentives, shipbuilding, etc. It's a chapter on justice. Corruption, Sanader escaped ok. The police let him go anyway, clearly Sanader wasn't alone. One cannot rob an ATM alone, let alone alienate 10 billion kunas of public money. It's a crime scene, he's got it. From that Serbian to that communist from World War II or after the war, but also from Kerestinc, Lora, Sisak, etc. to everyone equally. And as the processing of someone who has been involved in the Homeland War cannot be considered a negativity of the Homeland War, even if they are tried by the 2nd World War, it will not again mean that the foundations of the Antifascist War will be compromised without which I know Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, Cres, Losinj etc. Matulji, Draga, Lovran would not be Opatija part of Croatia. But I'm interested in something else alive. Did the former prime minister of 2m euros, as Mr Barisic said or corrupt the team from Brussels or Strasbourg with 2m euros? This was also discussed at these councils of their ministers, or parliamentarians. I think that's the key question, and can anyone answer that question at this point, let the BOOK go, let go of the court, can they give us an answer? Did 2m euros go to private accounts of European politicians or diplomats? If it went to their accounts, then Europe is as corrupt as Croatia and I fear there is no future unlike Croatia. The return of refugees is then stated here, their assets also p. 2. that's one important question. Of course that property should be returned. But one question is so-called. The protected tenants, unable to get rid of it, seem to have no interest in anyone or in Europe, unfortunately neither in Croatia. It is clear that owners should be compensated for nationalisation or vice versa, but then it should also enable these people to come to an apartment according to the conditions by which many of these apartments were acquired, and today they are sitting in the Government or Parliament. Correction of injustice, it is clear that it cannot be done in a way that creates new injustices even greater than those of the previous ones. However, I will also say to leave these 5 grand or 35,000 protected tenants to their fate when we are witnessing how they are based on Article 16. Shushk's regulations assign apartments to the political military elite, at the very least it's degutant. As far as this section is concerned, 13 "RH will step up its efforts to meet all the closing criteria in chapters 8 and 23 in order to close them temporarily in the first half of the following year etc. The government is fully aware of the challenges" etc. It's clear that we all probably want this process to end as soon as possible. Is there always an increasingly frequent issue in the public EU yes or no? europa gave Croatia exactly one billion euros in various assistance from the Republic of Croatia. We didn't give them anything, but we left them one THT. INA, banks, with Croatia, create a huge surplus in the trade of goods, not to mention how much they receive on the basis of loans borrowed by the Republic of Croatia, etc. It means Europe and in these circumstances has an enormous interest in the Republic of Croatia, but I think we must ask ourselves whether we live in a state of such authority or in this country some better government, and in which Europe can help. I think she can offer at least some standards, and clearly for everything else we're going to have to deal with ourselves, because let's not think that money is just going to drip. Istria, for example. '90s. almost 100% for Europe today, much less today, although I say, the first right now should be for Europe and even more ahead of and even more than some others in the Republic of Croatia. Why should it be for, so our exports are still bigger than our imports, which we export, we export to the west, where tourists come from. Whoever invests money in the area, more money Istria withdraws from Brussels than from the state budget that is most expendable per capita. Who orders ships, where we buy, where we work when there's no work in the Bujams, in Mago, Buzet or Pazin, etc. And that's why Europe. If it all came down, when it comes to Europe, it's just money, then it's clear or it's just some non-refundable help, then it shouldn't be like that, but it's also some of the standards that I believe we're about to start living on our own. Who is against, mostly large importers, tycoons, etc. who today can clear through the media and control the mood of citizens. As far as the report itself is concerned, we will support it, Europe, yes, the referendum does not matter when it is absolutely yes, but the real referendum I think in this country will be when elections will take place and perhaps after that this agony will be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68976	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mrs. Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68977	Correcting, there were a lot of incorrect allegations, but the one at the beginning when Mr. Cain said that the prime minister said that the situation was worse than it says in the media, that it wouldn't be for pensions, that the team was catastrophic. ... First of all, the prime minister never said that, and that's not true. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What you've been reading... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You haven't read that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] She never said she wouldn't be up for retirement, and she never said her team was disastrous. [[I did, I read.]] None of that is true. And you, Mr. Cain, create targeted defetism, scare Croatian citizens, never question pensions, never the salaries of civil servants come into question. Instead of helping this country get out of the economic crisis, you're doing everything the opposite and you're moving us away from this point, from the European Union, and to your rhetoric. Your rhetoric is very dangerous. You will be here for this report, and in fact you are retorting us away from this report and from the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68978	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68979	Article 209 simply tells the truth that it was not possible to read about it. On the contrary, when Mrs. Buric told the government of citizens they despised and hated it, no one believes that she did not know what Sanader was doing, they told her that the government should be completely changed. Mrs. Kosor talks two months after the government's reconstruction...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68980	Peace out, buddy. Don't, colleague Cain, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... Thank you very much. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Don't make things up. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't slander...... My colleague Cain, one of the inventions that you represent as the truth. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's fiction. ... Well, you can't... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68981	Media, media, read in Evening, daily.hr today is on a whole series of portals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68982	Well, you can't, so that's one fiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68983	Well, if that's the case, but they're...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68984	Well, that's right, so you can't go to Parliament in the Croatian Parliament... One gossip party, one gossip, one yellow one, a dirty one dirt stand out as one truth. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68985	Well, the fiction is that there are 335 thousand unemployed, today maybe...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68986	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68987	Mr. Vice President, it is absolutely pointless to correct the inventions of fellow Caine, obviously from attached.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68988	Ms. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinovic, a club representing HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68989	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As a whole, the whole 2010 was actually the most successful year of our negotiations since they started in 2005. However, since we are discussing the Belgian presidency, I must stress that these negotiations have been particularly successful during the second half of the last year because we have closed the largest number of chapters in the six-month period since we have negotiated. And so the result of the negotiations at the end of this presidency was such that we have practically opened all chapters, and that we have seven more to close. It is therefore evident how we have reason to be satisfied with these achievements and how we also have reason to expect that, with the rest of the negotiations, it will end during the current and Hungarian presidency. No one doubts that we still have some serious business on that road, but no one is going to hesitate on that trip to work a whole series of institutions. However, at this final stage, it seems important to stress that our work will not be completed with the last closed chapter, only one extremely important stage will be completed, a big job preparing for the negotiations and the negotiations that we have come to with great and dedicated work of many. But that's what the sports jargon says, just qualifications for the European championship. Only membership in the European Union is a permanent and big job, and it will mean for many that it will add an extremely significant dimension to its regular work, not to mention more work. In this debate, I would like to point out that the Belgian presidency when it comes to enlargement policy, and of course the most I think about progress in our negotiations, was extremely successful. This is more significant than the fact that during this period Belgium only operated with the technical government, burdened with extremely serious negotiations on the future structure of its country. I believe so much that our progress has added value and weight, especially if these results are compared to another presidency run by the same technical government and whose results have been significantly poorer. I think that this progress is a good indicator of the trend in which our negotiations are located, and that it reads that our plan for negotiations is to conclude them by summer and that we should have the necessary support for the Member States of the European Union. In this regard, I hope that we will discuss the negotiations once again in this format, and that, in the next period, all together will focus further on the direct tasks which are related to the membership of the European Union ahead of us. In this regard, first of all, I think of preparations for a referendum in which the government will certainly play a leading role, but I believe that there is also a significant job at the Croatian Parliament that we should start working on right now. On the other hand, in front of us in the Croatian Parliament, it is an important job to lobby in the national parliaments of the Member States as well as in the European Parliament, and in order for the ratification process to go as quickly as possible because it is important for us to enter the EU into a period that will still be discussed and negotiated between us and us on an extremely significant future financial perspective that will determine the amounts of European funds that will be available to us for 7 years starting in 2014. When we turn back and look at our European path with a special emphasis on its share that has formally started with the beginning of the negotiations, it is now quite evident how we have negotiated for a number of cumulative reasons long and extremely hard. It could therefore be said now of a kind of instruction that can be read from our previous experience, which will certainly be of particular importance to the countries that will go behind us on this journey. In fact, the new way of negotiating introduced by the Institute of Criteria significantly extends the time of the negotiations. This is related to the harmonisation of procedures, but also to the increased requirements set before future new members. In our case, we believe that we will enter the EU as a well-prepared new member, and this has not always been the case in the past, in fact very often has not been the case in the past. Thus, the criteria significantly extended the duration of the negotiations. But ultimately it will contribute to their quality. Finally, during the period of the Belgian Presidency, negotiations and preparations for membership have progressed enormously, and I believe that during March and at the latest in April we will know the date of the end of the negotiations. All these reasons give us reason to be satisfied, keeping in mind that there are more jobs to do until the conclusion of negotiations and entry into the European Union, but that our continued commitment is primarily because of ourselves to work further on improving the system whether it is a judicial system, improving the work of the state administration, applying adopted legislation, etc. etc. I believe that speaking now strictly about what the requirements result from the negotiations and this still relatively short but serious part of the preparations are going to do well. And I hope that, in the end of this job, regardless of the nearness of the parliamentary elections, we will continue to carry out the consensus of the vast majority of parliamentary parties on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. For all of these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports the report in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68990	Thank you. SDP representative's club, Mrs. Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68991	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary. Today we are discussing two months from the conclusion of this period of the negotiating process between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union during the period of Presidency of the Kingdom of Belgium to the Council of the European Union from 1 July to 31 December of last year. Negotiations on the accession of the European Union continue to be difficult but also above all a useful process that enables our country to develop in line with the highest European standards. As this is hoped to be the last report on the ongoing negotiations process in the SDP club, we think it is not bad to remember some of the basics of our negotiating path. After a major wave of enlargement in 2004, when 10 new members entered the European Union, the Union introduced several new elements in the methodology of accession negotiations to improve their quality and ensure that new members are fully prepared for membership. The most important thing is the novelty that has defined and Croatian accession negotiations are the criteria for opening and closing chapters and the dynamics of negotiations in each chapter primarily depends on their fulfillment. The system of criteria has made negotiations more difficult, more complicated and slower and increases the dependence of the candidate country itself on the final assessment of the member states which have thus been given the opportunity to slow down the process that we have witnessed many times. It is a good side of the system to allow the candidate country to be better, to improve results and encourage reforms, and the criteria are also the best possible evidence of membership readiness. Although it is difficult to qualify and quantify progress it exists. But it's not all about standards. Reforms and changes need to live in society, they need to be felt in the lives of citizens, and we certainly don't think enough has been done. In addition to the criteria, the new element of the negotiations is to track the candidate country through so-called. monitoring and after the temporary closure of the chapter, which means that work never stops. And that's just as good for us. We can be happy that this new negotiation mode has been applied to us because otherwise we think, in the SDP club, we think that many things would not begin to solve themselves. First of all, the start of resolving the burning problem of corruption in our society, restructuring the economy, liberalising the market, achieving some ecological standards, would not be working on human rights, refugees' rights and minority rights, calculating with war crimes, etc. If there has always been no political will by the government to approach the resolution of these issues, however, the negotiating process with the European Union has in some way forced them to do so. When we talk about the very reporting period of the Kingdom of Belgium’s presidency, this period is marked by further progress in the accession negotiations that entered into their final, final phase. By the end of the negotiation process, seven more chapters remain to be closed. During the reporting period negotiations were opened in one, and temporarily closed in 8 negotiating chapters, and so last year we welcomed the end with a total balance of 34 open, and 28 temporarily closed chapters. Progress has been recorded in all areas of the negotiations, but we must not be caught by euphoria. We need to keep the extreme seriousness at the very end of the process, because we know that there is still a lot of work to be done on very sensitive issues. Moreover, it should not be forgotten that the process itself is not finished after the negotiation process has been completed. Following is the final production and signing of our accession treaty with the Union, the referendum, and probably a very long ratification process by the Member States. Croatia still needs to close 7 chapters, which I will not repeat here, as my predecessors have already indicated. However, I would also like to emphasise the importance of the European Parliament resolution, which was adopted on 16 February 2011, means a very recent resolution on Croatia's progress. It has been adopted by a large majority, but we must not allow a large majority of European parliamentarians, their votes, but we must not get carried away with that either, as the resolution contains numerous skeptics and points to several major problems that we still have to deal with. Accession negotiations with Croatia can be concluded in the first half of 2011, provided that the necessary reforms continue decisively, particularly in strengthening public administration and justice, continuing the fight against corruption, ensuring sustainable return of refugees, full co-operation with the Hague court, continuing the privatisation process and accepting the shipbuilding plan in difficulty. We must not deceive ourselves and the public ourselves that the job is finished, and we at the SDP club express hope that the issue of joining the Union will not be used inappropriately for pre-election purposes. We still need to supplement the Penal Code in accordance with the highest standards of international law, especially with regard to the definition of crime against humanity, the provisions on command responsibility and the laws defining sexual violence, and further improving measures to protect witnesses. Further steps should be taken to ensure the independence and professionalism of the media, and to continue to show determination to ensure that the media sector operates without political interference and to ensure the independence of some other regulatory bodies. Cases of intimidation and political pressure on journalists and cases of commercial influence on the media should be examined, and investigations into threats to journalists and citizens who have worked, or cases of corruption and organised crime should be stepped up. It should be recalled that, in the reporting period, a certain increased interest in further enlargement of the Union has been recorded, resulting in the status of the candidate of the Republic of Montenegro, and by respecting ambitions for membership and some other countries in the region. In the SDP, we believe that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is certainly to become a member of the European Union, but also to help our neighbours to become candidates and members of the Union as quickly and efficiently as possible. Having a politically stable and competitively successful environment is certainly our interest, and we should continue to share our experiences and knowledge with our neighbours in achieving this mutual goal. The Republic of Croatia on this path to institutionalisation, institutional europeanisation, I would call it Southeast Europe, must certainly be a leader. The Council of the European Union itself welcomed Croatia's active role in regional co-operation, as well as improving relations with neighbouring countries and efforts towards reconciliation in the region. The reporting period also records significant progress in the area of harmonisation of our legislation. With regard to the very harmonisation of legislation, we have come to a point of almost full compliance and have reached member states in this job. In the accession process, Croatia fulfilled all obligations related to harmonisation of legislation, so we have brought nearly 507 so far since 2000. European laws, and a thousand 270 sublegal acts. The plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis, which we have recently discussed in the Croatian Parliament for this year, concerns new regulations and directives in the European Union, which Croatia is harmonising in parallel with the members of the Union, and thus demonstrates its readiness to function in the conditions of full membership. In the reporting period, some progress has also been made in meeting the conditions for closing negotiating chapters that have financial effects, but further efforts need to be made to fully establish administrative structures for the management and supervision of EU funds, for which we are constantly getting criticism as a lack in our reports. We need to put more effort into strengthening our administrative capacity and organisation. In our court, our institutions are threatened with the danger of the organisational and humane ones in major problems when one day we become a member, with the resolution of the issue there is no longer time to postpone. Our institutions need capable and educated personnel to be able to absorb a job that will emerge from membership. So starting with the Croatian Parliament, we need to take seriously the work of reorganising and human training and strengthening. As regards the Belgian Presidency, we would like to emphasise the special importance of closing, opening and closing Chapter 34 of the institution, which has been regulated by our institutional framework within the European Union, and in particular we would like to stress that it is very important that one day, the Croatian language will be in the official language of the European Union. At this point in the SDP club, we consider it particularly important to actively implement a communication strategy towards our citizens, to prepare for a referendum in accession. It is good that it will separate itself from the parliamentary elections, but in communication itself, too little has been done in our court, or rather very little is seen. In the SDP club, we believe that there is a huge job ahead of us to inform citizens about what it means to become a full member of the European Union, which is what membership brings and relations, so that citizens and citizens themselves can decide on the future of the country in a referendum. Europe's communication to citizens is a field where it is only now beginning to work more seriously, and this way we call on all subjects of political and public life, including, of course, the media, to contribute to the correct and concrete information of citizens. It should point to tangible, visible and concrete projects that have been implemented with the assistance of the Union. It's not enough to glue some posters, share flyers and hold round tables and professional gatherings. In simple language, we should explain to our citizens what are the benefits of our membership in the Union, vividly and clearly to show what are the advantages, and what we may be losing by neulacess in the Union. The successful accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union requires a high degree of support from Croatian citizens. In view of the fact that accession negotiations are in place in 2011, they entered the final phase, and the need for sectoral approach in communication towards different target groups was increased, so to young people, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, civil society, pensioners, farmers, etc. Finally, there is something to be said about the already proverbial chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. The European Union expects Croatia to implement concrete measures to increase the transparency of governance of state bodies as one of the preconditions for fighting corruption, adding that corruption in Croatia is present in many areas. The European Union expects concrete measures from Croatia to restore citizens' confidence in institutions. The working chapters at 23rd must continue decisively. However, it is not expected primarily by the EU, Croatia's citizens and citizens expect it above all. This is not just a technical question for us, it is a matter of meeting the criteria for closing Chapter 23; it is not only that, but there is a real desire to calculate with corruption at all levels. The Constitutional Law and the legal framework guaranteeing the independence and depolitisation of the judiciary have been amended. There has also been a change in the political climate to address the huge problem of corruption, it should be acknowledged. But in the SDP club, we believe that this must not be just a passing phase or a change in cosmetic nature or pre-election trick. Every day we can track the extent of corruption and how severe malfeasance and theft are at the expense of the state budget. However, all of this must not remain on the headlines of the daily newspaper or early morning arrests. The European Union, but our citizens too, expect the verdicts of whatever outcome they will be that will bring an independent judiciary without any political and public pressure. We expect and desire responsible behavior of all. And let me point out at the very end that we at the SDP club always repeat a very important position, which is that reforms and changes in Croatian society should be done for our own, our citizens and citizens, and not for itself. It is not only the goal of becoming a full member of the Union but it is very important what kind of member we will be. What will be the standard of our citizens, how independent our judiciary will be, how capable and competitive our economy will be, is productively important for our own sake, and nobody will help us if we don't help ourselves. When it comes to the SDP report itself, it will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68992	Thank you. HNS-HSU's representative club, Mrs. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68993	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First, one remark and I will ask you to listen to this because it refers to the Presidency of the Assembly, which is that we think it is wrong that the government's report on the 6-month period of the Belgian presidency was put on the agenda, not at the same time as the National Committee's report, so the parliamentary body on the six-month chairmanship which also came or was already sitting, and I must say, I have warned that those 2 reports, as was the custom, are being placed on the agenda parallel and that they are being discussed at the same time because they are the same things, and the National Committee is a parliamentary body. So, in this respect, it must have an advantage. And I am warning simply that failure that I have warned of before, but it obviously did not bear fruit, so I am now warning the Presidency and the leadership of the Parliament that it simply did not act rationally, and I must say, in line with the priority that it is a parliamentary body such as the National Committee. To move to the report on behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, another 6 months in 2010 in negotiations for us was successful since we opened the most difficult chapter – Justice and Fundamental Rights for us and closed 8 chapters. However, if you remember our expectations a year ago and our expectations at the start of the Belgian presidency, we expected to enter in 2011 with 3, max 4, unopened chapters. But that didn't happen. We initially even said that we would enter 2011 with the Justice and Fundamental Rights and the Market Competition and then the Financial and Budgetary Provisions as they close at the end. So, with those three chapters. But it didn't happen, and we went with, we go to the HNS-HSU club, we figure it's 6 + 1, because this 1 other questions are let's say technical nature and open up and close at the same Intergovernmental Conference. But we entered at the end of 2011, with six unopened chapters and six of the most complex of course, as it is for the expected unopened chapters. So far, the plan is to close the Regional Policy and the coordination of structural instruments, fisheries if God gives, and agriculture. And then on June 21st, the judiciary and fundamental rights are closed, the Market Competition and the Financial and Budgetary Provisions, and then the other issues. At this point, we at the HNS-HSU club think that after the end of the Belgian presidency we are actually faced with 3 problems, 3 tasks or 3 topics on which it is necessary to focus. And we think that it's not the time, as it usually happens, at the very end, we really are at the very end, that it's not the time to sneak into that it's a more or less done thing. First, there is always the possibility that there may be some difficulties, but at this point, especially because at this point as it is expected before the conclusion of the negotiations, this combination of practical meeting standards and practical tasks, but also political decision-making, there is no doubt about it, of which one part of that political decision has to do with us, the other has no necessarily direct connection with us, but reflects on us. I mean political decision-making within European institutions. Three topics that when you look at the Belgian presidency balance remain key at the moment. The first of them refers to the Market Competition. We are at this point more or less prior to acceptance or are generally accepted by these restructuring programmes as a prerequisite for the EU. The restructuring of the shipyard as our main topics, the Split Ironworks, meanwhile, went into bankruptcy as you saw, so we have a problem restructuring the shipyard. These programmes have been accepted, the investor has been found, however, there again can be referred to what I saw in the media and I ask to be answered if it is not true, but according to what was in the media, it seems that a series of obstacles and difficult circumstances have been placed before the Croatian government in front of the investor which make the prospect of this investment less successful. I have to say that we in HNS HSU are not quite clear. The European Union is not interested in the success of our investors in the shipyards, it is interested in the exclusive adherence to the restructuring programme, which gradually leads to direct payments, so direct incentives. Furthermore, whether these shipyards will be successful and continue to work with a smaller volume of people, or not or will go bankrupt, this is not about the European Union. So, there's nothing she dictates to us, she's just saying I can't make direct payments, you've been paying $10 million per ship that can't do it anymore, and so you're going through this restructuring program. But whether the investors you chose will manage to keep those shipyards alive has nothing to do with the European Union. The rules will be respected so if we manage to keep them alive great, if we are not, then they will go bankrupt, in other words, the obvious interest of the Croatian state is that if there is an investor, that he succeeds. So, that the project to restructure and maintain those shipyards in life succeeds, not to find an investor and then try to beat it with the conditions set for it. So whether or not it is true, it is the government to inform the public, that is what the media has written and was the investor's position, of course the investor's position in this respect is very important because he is the one who gives money to survive the whole project, not to be restructured. It is the interest and attitude of the European Union, it is the attitude and interest of the Croatian economy and Croatian taxpayers not to pay out of their pocket $10 million per ship but, of course, it is also the interest of the Croatian State and the Croatian economy and citizens that, if possible, those shipyards and those jobs survive, that the investor survives with them. This is not what the European Union is worried about, it is just one of the negotiating statements, but the Croatian government has to take care of it. I warn of this problem that occurred when an investor appeared to him, that he had the same obstacles that all investors who are trying to invest in Croatia and that is one of our problems that will need to be really seriously caught in the future and solved. Our other problem, therefore, is not a problem in this case that the European Union would object to us, because the restructuring programmes will be accepted rather than that we shoot ourselves in the leg as far as the shipyard is concerned if the investor, we try to make it harder for him to survive with these new commitments. The second topic is the judiciary and fundamental rights. As you know, 11. The 3rd is going to be so-called. A report on passing time will be a report on the extent to which we have met, we have fulfilled those 10 criteria in this chapter of the judiciary and fundamental rights. Let me warn you here on behalf of the HNSU Club, this topic is a very serious topic at this point. There are real dangers and different suggestions and ideas that could happen, from post-monitoring after negotiations to different things. So in this chapter and this area, it's unusually important, and to do what needs to be done, which is good for us and b. to stick to the truth. Especially important, I don't know how many of you, so the government sent documents on the basis of a report for 11. 3. on justice and fundamental rights. It is likely that a number of you MPs and representatives to the government certainly came a letter or report by alternative NGOs on meeting the criteria in the chapter of the judiciary and fundamental rights. It came to me, among other things, because I'm on that list. This is precisely why I warn here that it is unusually important in these reports and reforms and to inform them, to stick to colleagues and colleagues of truth. Because in this report, there are alternative NGOs, in my opinion, some things that don't stand, that aren't true, but there are some things that stand. If we can, we have this integrity to tell people in these things we've fulfilled all the criteria, in these things we're not and we're standing behind it and we can show it then we have the legitimacy that in a report like this alternative NGOs say these things are true and we're still doing that, and these things are not true for the following reasons. And We state the reasons for which they are not right, and that is what can be done. However, if in our own report everything is done and done, which obviously is not the case, then credibility in disprovement of some companies that appear from other sources of credibility does not exist. So, as for the judiciary chapter and the fundamental rights under our assessment of 10 complex criteria, 6 are fully fulfilled and 4 are not yet. And that I think is a fact, it's not a terrible fact. We've got until 6 months, so we've got a bath. First of all, this applies to what is not fulfilled, to the housing of people who have had tenant rights and have not bought them because they were in refugee, care or compensation to people outside the war areas who have destroyed houses by various diversions and the employment of members of national minorities in state services, especially at local level. These are some of the topics. Unlike the corruption they honor us, which in my opinion does not stand, the remark does not stand. One of the remarks is that corruption processing should begin at the highest level. It was started in Croatia. I don't think that's controversial. But in order for us to have the legitimacy to tell you this remark doesn't stand, you have to have both the courage and the ability and the determination to say that we haven't done this yet, we'll have this plan. So don't try to cover it up and cover it up, but face it because now is really the last moment. And since my time is up, I won't be too long just to say one more sentence. Communication with citizens, a communication strategy, is our third weakness. We are constantly discussing the Communication Strategy. Let's not discuss the communication strategy anymore. Let's go outside and tell people what's going on. While we are wise, let us tell them what changes when we change and let us publish on the web pages of chapters and negotiating positions that we have closed. Of 35, 28, if that's not information, I don't know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68994	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68995	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd start at the end. Communication strategy. What Mrs Pusic mentioned in her last sentence. So, I repeat that, so I don't know which times from this pay phone. Do Croatian farmers, students, workers, pensioners and all other groups of Croatian society know how someone long ago said or stopped what was waiting for them? Is it explained to them what each of them will welcome, be able to do or finalise Croatia's negotiations with the EU? That's what I keep talking about, I stress, and when we come to political gatherings and party political gatherings like I was the other day, then people ask what's waiting for them. Here is only chapter on agriculture and fisheries chapter 11. Then Chapter 22 – Regional policy and coordination of structural projects. The other day, the question was asked, why and where did the legalization of the facilities in agriculture, farms, stables etc? Some of the standards that we are to say are under negotiation seem to be sharper and not to say harder than Europe prescribes. When I talk about regional policy and the coordination of structural instruments, we are clearly interested in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem whether the application of Chapter 22 will bring alignment or approximation, for example. gross social product 5 Slavonian counties whose average is 6000 800 euros in GDP with the rest or other part of Croatia, whose average is 10 thousand 880 euros almost 11 thousand? Not to speak individually now about some regions that have far greater GDP. Will this regional strategy, policy, coordination of structural instruments be made possible to bring Croatia even, to bring all elements, infrastructure and employment opportunities, etc.? So that's what people are interested in. Will it come from one part of Croatia that has such a small gross social product, e.g. The Ship-Posavia County 6 thousand 100 euros, the lowest according to the 2008 State Statistics Institute's 2008 report, and this is the latest data, for 2009, we do not have any more data, so whether people from that county will move or, through the application of structural support and instruments, our children, remain in that county and remain in the other counties of Požega-slavonska, Vukovar-Srijemska, Virovitski-Podravska, and Osijek-Baranja, which is still something further than these other 4 let's say not to be without HDZ county policy under the ruling structure? The opening part says that the presidency of the Kingdom of Belgium to the EU Council in the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010, if it had marked further progress in accession, I would have added to the gradual negotiations, as we remember the former prime minister's promise and this to tell the Vd prime minister that the negotiations will be completed by the end of 2010. And it's been repeated countless times. And unfortunately, it took time and in 2011, I'd like some kind of promise to be fulfilled so that the first half of this year is over. We'll see. I say I wish it was over. But during that period, whether it was June 30, 2011 or it was extended in any case by the Government, the ministries in charge can design the so-called so-called. a communication strategy to make clear to citizens before a possible referendum and loudly explain what awaits them. I will not say every single one, but there are opportunities, thank God today all possible media, from electronic to written and other ways to make it possible for Croatian citizens in the European Union. I will not talk about a technical error which is visible in the title of this report, where it says that the Croatian Government delivered this report to the Croatian Parliament by act of 19 August 2010, we are considering the period until 31 December 2010, so it is not a big deal, because on the other page we already have a visible report on 3 February 2011 when the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered this report to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I call again as our prime ministers call on banks or I appeal that, therefore, they call on lower interest banks, etc., so I invite Mr. State Secretary to all of you in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finally communicate with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that they know what is agreed in chapters that are also closed as temporary, but especially in chapters that we still have open, that is 6+1, and among them is exactly what I have to say here is very interesting for the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja, and this is regional policy and coordination of structural instruments, then agriculture and fisheries. The HDSSB Club is clear that like all clubs that have spoken so far will not be against this report because here, as Mrs Pejcinović Buric said, it was done relatively much this semester last year, meaning the second half of last year in the closure of those chapters, and here are the other 6+1 so that the HDSB Club will also be in favour of adopting this report on the course of the negotiations process of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68996	Thank you. At 12.03 hours, it is time to report a ten-minute hearing. A few corrections. Ms. Representative Marija Buric Pejcinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68997	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I have to correct the incorrect allegations from my colleagues, Grubisic, that farmers know nothing about what awaits them at the time of their entry into the European Union. In fact, the largest working group in the EU negotiations was right for agriculture, there were 400. So to say that these 400 people who represented different institutions and in Croatia did not know what Croatia was taking over by entering the European Union agriculture is at least irresponsible. Namely, what do farmers need to know? They already have a chance to know, they need to know what is changing, and we in this Croatian Parliament have changed a series of laws, we have made some strategic decisions on what will be Croatian agriculture by adopting legal gain in this area. Therefore, there are now many things that concern our farmers, and what is not yet finished with the negotiations, in connection with the European Union. You said yourself, it will be this chapter that will be closed in the 4th month, the deal is that what is required in the negotiations is because otherwise what kind of negotiations would not come public until it is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68998	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u68999	One of them, I can tell you a secret, is whether or not we can call jam jam, depending on how much fruit is in there...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69000	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69001	How it defines European legislation or how we used it. I don't think that's the essential question of our agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69002	And Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Grubisic, you discussed this report and said that Croatia has a V.D. Prime Minister. No, that is not true, Croatia has legally elected Croatian Prime Minister in this House and most of the votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69004	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Grubisic, with skepticism and infidelity, is talking about the future development of four Slavonian counties and the concern that he will continue to lag behind in the development of the rest of Croatia. I will try to correct this and convince him contrary to the fact that Croatia is already divided into four NUC regions, that our Pannonian, 3 NUC region, that our Pannonian, Slavonic NUC region is unfortunately the most underdeveloped region compared to others and that is why we have the possibility of using significant EU funds to achieve the development and other parts of Croatia. And this is an opportunity that we Slavons in the Pannonian region receive through Croatia's entry into the European Union and for the development of the economy and for the development of agriculture and for the development of municipal infrastructure and for the different forms of development of social infrastructure. It's an opportunity we have to take advantage of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69006	Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69007	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As Mrs. Roksandić noted, it is incorrect to assume that Mrs. Kosor is V.D. Prime Minister, V.D. It has been shortened by the performer and in the spirit of Croatian language, it would be better if the duty officer were O.D., and it would be better if she left the place as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69008	Very funny. Very. SDSS representative club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69009	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS Club will accept the Report on the course of the negotiation process over the last six-month period and because, in both the National Committee and the government's action, there is clear progress in what is the common objective, the objective of this Parliament and the government's objective, in fact, of the entire society, which is to bring the negotiations to an end by the end of the 6th month, so until the end of the Hungarian presidency. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69010	My colleagues and colleagues, so please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69011	I'd like to say that in this short period of time, there are still a few very important things to do for up to 6 months. And on behalf of the SDSS Club, I would like to draw attention to some of the things especially those concerning Chapter 23. In fact, some tails have been dragging around for years, some decades. And it's quite certain to close the door at this stage with the conclusion of negotiations for chapter 23. We won't be able to unless those tails are removed. And it's about the next one. Although we have resolved most of the issue of return of assets due to war events either usurped by private users or the state has made use of a certain significant number of people who for these or those reasons were in refugee status or it was a policy for those areas to settle as actively in the second half of the 1990s and in the first years of two thousand. So there are still houses that haven't been returned to their owners. The Cimesa family of Popović Brda, which has been running the dispute for 10 years to get its own house, where a court in this case in the Municipality Court of Karlovac and brings judgment and protects usurpator even though the state has nothing to do with usurpators, the state did not give that property and did not bring any of the bodies to municipal, county, or state to benefit from that property. But the court treats him like the state treated him like that. So it's like the state has a responsibility to him, and it doesn't. He, like everyone else, has the right to receive housing but in a regular procedure. The same applies naturally to other similar cases he has. Also, cases in which the owners are sued by temporary users regardless of whether it is those who usurped it on the basis of private will or received it on the basis of a decision by the municipal, county or state authorities to sue the owner for the investments they had, which are generally unauthorized without the consent of the owner, without the consent of the person who assigned the property, if he assigned it to the state. And that the courts are making executive proposals, and we have 11 of them right now in Croatia, that these executive proposals require owners to pay an estimated investment in someone's property. So, not that whoever usurped the property has to pay for usurping the property, making it impossible for someone to use the property for decades but to pay because this one invested and not asking the owner or not asking the state if in any way the state was involved in that story expecting the owner to pay for it in this case. Of course, it is certainly something that represents injustice. And if our courts are involved in this as they are, because they're making judgments in the matter, then that kind of thing can't be a recommendation to close Chapter 23, and we have to work it out. The same applies to private land usurperes especially in the area of the town of Benkovec, which unfortunately is not managed in any way. Because individuals known to both the police and the judiciary and the authorities are constantly usurping private property. And then after the crews have been planted by the state and those on whose property they planted, they're looking for compensation. We've got to work this out. A special case of people who, after the law was passed in 2003 in the seventh month or some, during that period, submitted requests for compensation for health damage, the loss of family members during the wartime or the destruction of property. People rarely lose their disputes in that period, not rarely, but in general. And in that procedure, instead of being, they have the satisfaction, for example, in the territory of the city of Sisak, that at least the court finds that the illegal disposal and liquidation of their family members is something that the state must prevent them from doing because they could not prove in court that their family members had been taken away and that they had been liquidated somewhere. In such cases, people are faced with exhausted years of judicial costs, years of court fighting, executions in which the court is sitting on pensions or sitting on apartments they have and on which they pay off the loans necessary for, based on an acquired or lease agreement. Such cases as we solved some other cases by that time in 2003 must also be solved. As far as employment is concerned, there is no doubt that when it comes to the judiciary, when it comes to administration, the state administration of the picture needs to be improved in this regard. But it certainly isn't just for some areas. I was recently also in Rijeka, and if it is true that in Rijeka, the percentage of members of the Serb community in terms of employment in the city and county government are several percent below what is guaranteed by law, then there should simply be one kind of proactive policy. It won't be solved on its own. And not only the government's action plan, but at the same time the active involvement of the county bodies, the active involvement of the city's bodies must be visible in this matter and must be present in this matter as is present in some other environments. As it is present in return environments, so it must be present in other environments not in any way insensitive to economic circumstances nor insensitive to the fact that it takes time. But unfortunately, we do not see that in this sense and in this respect anything significant is happening. And that is why it is an opportunity for the government's action plan to be treated as a document that needs to be revived at the lowest possible level, from the municipality, the city and the county. Not only at the level and what is planned by a ministry, whether it is the Ministry of Administration or the Ministry of Justice, but something that must be the result of a truly action approach at local and regional level. As regards other group issues related to Chapter 23, I can say that when it comes to the issue of former housing rights holders, which we are dealing with through housing programmes, and that category as well as other categories, that we have found a mechanism that we believe will work on until the conclusion of our negotiations, or that it will at least be set up so that it can count on its rapid functioning, which is a donor conference supported not only by our country, but also by the other three countries of the region of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia, and for which international organisations such as the High Commissioner for Refugees, such as the European Commission, and as the Government of the United States of America, at this moment finds the best possible way to solve the remaining issues from this area with the help of donations provided by the European Commission, were members of the European Union, and, as well as the United States of America, and, and, as of course, as a large number of people in particular, in terms, in terms, in which we have a significant problem in terms, in which are relevant to be in terms and in terms, in which are important to be in terms, and in terms, in terms, and in terms, in which are relevant to be, in terms, and in terms, in which we, in which we, in which we can be, in which we can be, in which we, in which we, in which we, in which we, in particular, in which we, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in terms, in terms, in terms, in particular, in particular, in particular, in terms, in which we, in terms, in which we, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in terms, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in terms, in terms, in particular, in terms, the key, the key, in terms, in terms, in terms of the relevant, in terms of the relevant, in which we, in which we, in which we, in terms of the key, the relevant, in particular, in particular, And for this reason, colleagues and colleagues, I would once again call upon these questions that remain in relation to Chapter 23, we find answers for them, especially some of them who represent freely can also say the drastic compromise of the generally present will, the generally present policy, and the generally present work of our judicial institutions, but given how long they are, which nature represents a serious compromise, and we need to resolve them. And the SDSS club, as I have already said, will support this report and will do everything, of course, that these issues are not an obstacle to the conclusion of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69012	Thank you. One correction, Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69013	Thank you. Well, here's not exactly the quote of a fellow Pupovec to be disrespected, and this is how he emphasized the returnee's rule of law for a busy asset for these litigation disputes, and so on. I wouldn't talk about it. I wouldn't talk about the results of the judicial bodies. But I would also point here to the obligation that the returnees have, which they generally do not meet, which is the obligation of the family home restoration contract, where a large number of renovated houses stand and are not immigrated, and the article of the contract signed by those same users says that the user is obliged immediately after the reconstruction work has been completed, and for the longest period of 30 days since the technical examination was carried out, together with members of his household to move into a family house restored under this contract, and to live in it for at least 10 years. That's usually not happening, here's exactly the area Mr. Pupovac was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69014	Ms. Representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69015	I thank Mr. Vice President for this beyond the usual protocol of the opportunity you gave me, which I asked you to take advantage of the opportunity to apologize to the Presidency of the Parliament, which I criticised for not putting on the agenda the National Committee and Government report at the same time. Given that the report of the National Committee was adopted at a session of the National Committee in January, but unfortunately in the meantime I found that the Secretariat of the National Committee was not sent to the procedure in time. Therefore, because of this criticism, I apologize to the Presidency of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69016	So on behalf of the Presidency of the Parliament, we accept an apology. An individual debate, Madam Representative. What? ... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69017	Mr. President, it's not my place to get involved in your business, but I still have words ringing in my head from the Bureau meeting about how we're going to use the correction of an incorrect quote, replication and violation of the Rules of Procedure. What my colleague did now wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote, it was a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69018	Well, she marked it as a correction to an incorrect quote, and one of your claims challenged it. I'm not going in if that claim, from this table is not coming in whether your claim is correct or the correction is correct. It's about correcting a claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69019	According to the content, it was not a correction to the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69020	We're going to an individual debate, Ms. Bianca Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69021	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. So here is what my colleagues said before me, in the second half of last year, the negotiations were extremely successful during the Presidency of the Kingdom of Belgium to the Council of the European Union, and they were opened in one, and temporarily closed in eight negotiating chapters. Three meetings of the Intergovernmental Conference on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union were held during that period, and on 9 November the European Commission adopted a autumn package of enlargement documents, which includes a report on the progress of the Republic of Croatia. It is in these documents that Croatia has made continuous progress, meeting membership criteria since the start of its accession negotiations since October 2005. Progress is being made in all areas of the negotiations and concludes that we are on track to meet all the criteria arising from the acquis. The report suggests that efforts must, of course, continue, especially in the reform of the judiciary and administration, in the fight against corruption and organised crime, in the areas of minority rights, refugee returns, war crimes trials and full co-operation with The Hague court. During the reporting period, the government also adopted 4 additions to the negotiating positions. If we analyzed everything made in chapters during the Belgian presidency, it would be this way briefly: in Chapter 12. – Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy, Union food safety policy, veterinary and phytosanitary matters ensure a high level of safety for products sold in EU Member States and that compliance with these standards will allow the Republic of Croatia to fully participate in the EU internal market. It also said that the EU and Croatia have agreed on a special regime to ensure that products covered by the provisions of this chapter can travel freely from the Republic of Croatia through the Neumese Corridor to BiH. Chapter 12 brings many benefits to Croatian citizens in terms of increasing food safety as well as the welfare of plants and animals. When we talk about Chapter 32. – Financial supervision Croatia has largely brought its legislation into line with the EU acquis here, strengthened its administrative bodies, as well as the system of internal financial controls in the public sector, as well as the establishment of a full operational body of the State Audit. I must mention here that we are also here in Parliament on 16 June 2010, the Croatian Constitution has been amended to strengthen the operational and financial independence of the State Audit Office as the most audit institution in the country. In Chapter 4. – The freedom of movement of capital is stressed to mean that this represents one of the fundamental pillars of the EU single market. Commission representatives found that the transfer of acquis in this area should strengthen the Croatian capital and real estate market, lower capital transaction costs for Croatian citizens. As regards the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing by Croatia, Croatia stressed its commitment to ensuring effective implementation, the relevant action plan and the implementation of relevant legislation in all related areas. For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply: – Transport policy is a record of progress in all aspects of transport, both in road transport, rail transport, air traffic. The benefits that Croatian citizens and all persons travelling to and from Croatia will benefit from the effort that Croatia has made in harmonising its legislation in this chapter. And of course, it has been pointed out that passengers will enjoy improved safety standards in all three modes of traffic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – The institutions that are also listed in this report that are ahead of us because of their specific nature it usually comes at the very end of the negotiations. It is a big deal that Croatia did so in this part of the negotiation process. And this also means a strong and strong signal that the end of the negotiations is close and that by obtaining representatives and votes for the Republic of Croatia in the EU bodies and institutions, as well as recognition of the Croatian language as the official language of the EU, I quote from the report: "Croatian winner in this chapter." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – Justice, security and freedom are the cornerstone of European integration, since in a broad and complex spectrum of issues covered by one of the fundamental freedoms, this is freedom of movement within the Union, as well as the conditions of security and justice for all, thus directly affecting the well-being of citizens. The swift implementation of court rulings will improve the rule of law, and the results of the fight against organised crime will allow life in a safer state. With regard to police cooperation listed in the report and the fight against organised crime, Croatia has developed a highly operational model of cooperation with EU Member States as well as countries in the region and a fully established and functional system of specialised bodies aimed at detecting and sanctioning organised crime as well as progress in the employment and training of border police officers as well as in technical equipment of border police. I don't have to say how important this is because of Schengen. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – The environment has also made progress, which the EU welcomes, but it is noted that there is still a need to continue strengthening administrative capacity. And finally Chapter 31. – Foreign Security and Defence Policy, this chapter welcomes the constructive role that the Republic of Croatia plays in military and civilian missions within the framework of the EU's common security and defence policy as well as positive engagement in our neighbourhood. Of course, here you should add that Croatia as a full member of the North Atlantic Alliance contributes to world peace. Croatia actively promotes regional co-operation, good neighbourly relations. It is recognised by the EU, so here in this chapter it is highlighted. Finally, it is nice to see that all planned activities are being completed within the deadlines set for negotiations to be concluded as soon as possible and that, in addition to harmonising the legislation with the acquis, we are taking care to strengthen administrative capacity, raise awareness through more efficient activities of institutions in all the abovementioned segments that are open and temporarily closed during the Presidency of the Kingdom of Belgium. It is important, of course, to stress this opportunity and in this esteemed House that we are carrying out all the necessary reforms because of ourselves, not because of the pressure from Europe, but for the benefit of our citizens. But on this road, we must not forget all the things that we are able to expect today to join the EU quickly, from our defenders who have provided us with independence and freedom, and to hundreds and thousands of sacrificed people who are through the system of state, public and regional administrations carrying out all that has been adopted in the negotiation process, and to the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69022	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69023	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, esteemed colleagues, you mentioned the related Chapter – Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policy as one of the chapters that is in line with EU standards and that it will make significant progress in food security and our citizens. I think in that part, it is a chapter closed as such, but we also had opportunities to read this summer, and there have been many speeches about meat imports, especially from EU countries because Germany and the Netherlands are the largest importers of frozen meat, and it is also known about Brazilian meat. Why is it such a painful question? Well, the painful question is primarily because of our cattlemen because that part reduces the possibility of our production, or use of our better quality meat. And another thing that is important, in the EU, after six months of frozen meat must be replaced and no longer can be used as such. Unfortunately, though, there is a possibility for us until medically determined that this meat is incorrect, it can be used as such. That is why this compliance, the closure of this chapter does not mean that we should not continue to work on this matter, it means to adopt regulations, not only of food laws, but also of regulations that will be in line with Europe and that will also bring about our production and competitiveness, our meat, as well. This meat you buy outside is so cheap it's normally below the price of our meat production but at the same time we know it's a lot worse quality than that. Therefore, this part of the work is still to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69024	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69025	Dear colleague, thank you for your replica, however, I must tell you that what I have said is explicitly stated in the report itself, it is not my interpretation of this chapter, it is not my arbitrary assessment, it is something the European Commission has said. I repeat again, quote means it's listed in chapter 12. Union food safety policy, the veterinary phytosanitary area ensures a high level of safety for products and thus will allow Croatia to fully participate in the internal market of the European Union. It's a quote from the inside, the examples you've cited have existed, but it doesn't mean there's going to be any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69026	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The subjective report before us concerns the period from 31 July to 31 December of last year has indeed confirmed the ambitions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the negotiating team and I would say to all of us in the Croatian Parliament that the negotiations will end by mid-2011, because after this period, we can say the most chapters temporarily closed by 8, it was clear that we are entering the final phase of the negotiation process, and that perhaps the most difficult chapters will remain for the end, which is normal and normal, but on the other hand, it gave us the right in our efforts and the desire to conclude this process with mid-2011. In addition to this, the European Parliament resolution adopted several days ago in the European Parliament, which clearly also states that Croatia can complete negotiations with the European Union by the end of June 2011, noting that all the criteria will be met in that sense, and expecting Croatia to do everything possible, but on the other hand, the path to that hodogram that we wanted is open, which is the completion of the negotiations by the end of June 2011, and in this sense we have received strong support from the European Parliament. I think there were 548 MPs in favour of that resolution, 42 against, and 50 abstentions that speak of the vast majority in the European Parliament, of course, of all these major groups of the European Parliament. First of all, I think of the European people, the European People's Party, the Socialists, the European Socialists and the Liberals. Such support is welcome, but that support itself will not contribute to us doing the part of the work that we need to do for ourselves. I'd kind of decommit with what I heard today in the debate, so there was an alternative report by NGOs. I respect NGOs, however, there is a large number of things that are not actually standing and are not factually justified and it is really questionable whether at all to talk about it, but given that there is a theme of the principle of the President of the National Committee which also disagrees with the findings in that report or some alleged report, then it should really be said that the facts presented there are simply not in line with reality and are not in line with the truth. In that regard, the negotiating process is of such a nature that it is very closely monitored by the European Commission and that it is very easy to establish the actual level of implementation of all obligations arising from the criteria in certain chapters. Therefore, it is very concrete to see through the criteria whether Croatia meets all expectations of the European Commission and whether it is fully in line with the standards that are in the European Union. Therefore, they cannot link the situation in the Republic of Croatia to the negotiation process. What is persistently avoided in the Croatian public and in the Croatian Parliament, especially by some individuals, is to compare the actual negotiation process and the results of the negotiation process with the situation in the Republic of Croatia. In this period that we are talking about, therefore, the second half of 2010 the situation in the economy was not a bit easy. We faced the consequences of the economic crisis, which was at the same time a global crisis, which had a very strong impact on Croatia but at the same time had the greatest and best progress in the negotiations. Which means that we have indeed deployed our forces within Croatia in the best possible way and that we have negotiated in the best possible way in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and that we have done this share in the best possible way which was not easy in terms of closing all these 8 chapters. Here, just for the mentioned chapter 27 of the environment, which has already been mentioned here, this chapter has indeed been closed during this period, which means that in the best possible way, we have already implemented the European legislation concerning this chapter. Of course, there are some answers in this process that we have sought in order to adequately respond to the requirements that come from the European Union in this sense have been negotiated and therefore there is a negotiating process, but certainly in this respect we have done an extremely large amount in the past period, in recent years, to meet all the criteria and to respond in the best possible way to the negotiating process. Also mentioned here were shipbuilding related to Chapter 8. Market competition, so some MPs here are behind the pay phone, specifically a colleague of Cain who, unfortunately, is gone, who is really pointless to correct, but I will only mention as an example. On the one hand, they want Croatia to complete negotiations as soon as possible, and on the other hand it appears in a way that if it were under his negotiations it would never end. That's exactly what this is about. And so, unfortunately, a number of non-matter advocates, which is quite the opposite of what is Croatia's European policy and what is our desire to get into a circle of European countries with certain standards, with standards already reached because... it has made it possible, unlike other countries, that we are already implementing that and when we talk about it, we should say that there are also monitorings in chapters that are temporarily closed. It is monitored whether Croatia is indeed in those chapters where the negotiation is closed whether it meets the EU's further demands on whether it is in line, etc. So, this Croatia is doing absolutely well, but above all for the benefit of its citizens. And therefore indeed such remarks as we heard from individuals here in the Croatian Parliament who talk about how Croatia is doing something because it has to do, absolutely do not stand. We do it because we want to do it, because we want to achieve better standards, because the final product of the negotiating process will be better standards for Croatian citizens, a more orderly situation in Croatia, so what we all want and I believe that first of all, when we talk about the negotiating process, we are thinking about it. That process wasn't easy at all. For the first time, criteria were introduced, for the first time some negotiating chapters were introduced. Chapter 23, which has been spoken of for many years, has been introduced for the first time in the case of the Republic of Croatia. I've said it a few times, but I don't think it's too bad to talk again at this point when we're talking about the course of the negotiation process. So Chapter 23 did not exist for countries that came before us into the EU, so for those who entered in 2004 10 for both Romania and Bulgaria 2007. It is likely that these experiences were taught to introduce this chapter into the negotiating process as an independent chapter, and on the other hand they were introduced for the first time and the criteria. For the first time, criteria have been introduced for opening individual chapters and closing. This was also not in the negotiations when the countries that are now members and which are now in certain chapters were negotiated when measured against Croatia were certainly worse and standing. Therefore, Croatia has used this process of approaching the EU to prepare itself in the best possible way. And thanks to that fact, I would say that at the end of the negotiation process we will be in front of many EU members in front of individual EU members. In addition, the fact that many countries in the EU have failed to respond to the economic crisis in the way that one part of the member states have succeeded, although all EU members have had very much of a problem in the economic crisis that was first in the French sector. To support this, I would just say that Croatia is often compared to some countries outside the EU that have better economic growth, etc. but does not compare it with EU countries that have much greater deficits, which also have weaker economic growth, which have much more unemployment than Croatia. So, not to mention the fact that EU countries in the financial, economic crisis in their financial sector have funded 4 000 billion euros in banks from their budgets and thus created huge deficits in their budget. 4 000 billion dollars, 4 000 billion euros simply put into the financial sector, not counting on this part of aid to banks, so this fund is being discussed where another 700 billion euros are planned to help EU member states. However, we have absolutely nothing left to do but really end up in the best possible way and become an EU member as soon as possible. And in this sense all praise the negotiating team, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all those who participated in this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69028	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69029	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I want to get involved in this debate over the report during the Presidency of the Kingdom of Belgium. First of all, it should be said that 2010 will be recorded as the most fertile year in connection with the talks. And during 2010 6 were open chapters, 11 closed, and during the Belgian Presidency, as we have heard many times 1 was opened and 8 were closed. It is important to thank the Belgian government because I must know we heard today that there is still a technical government there, but it is not out of the question to mention a visit by the Committee on European Integration and Visits to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Parliament of Belgium, at the beginning of the 12th month last year, where we were also encouraged to receive support from Belgian parliamentarians. It should also be said that it encourages the closure of chapter 34, although not much has been said about it because it happened all in one day, which deals with institutions. But it is also very important... the key institutional elements of the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. We have heard several times that the Republic of Croatia has a specific framework for negotiations, that the specificity of the Croatian accession process, that everything has been more procedurally complex and that it is difficult to compare with the countries that joined the EU in the last round. So we will definitely enter as the best prepared country and we will certainly be an example to other countries in the region that want to join the EU. The message emerges from our negotiating process that reforms are paid out and will enter the Union, we hope that this criterion will continue to be respected only by those countries that are fully prepared and that carry out all the criteria. It is also not necessary to interfere with the role of the Croatian Parliament. It was very important, especially the Committee on European Integration, through which all the laws went through. We've done the harmonisation of legality, but we also know that there's monitoring, that we've completed the second round, that we're just opening the third round of monitoring and that we're meeting all the commitments in closed chapters. What is important and what is waiting for us is the sensitisation of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I see that a serious campaign has already begun in the county, a conversation with NGOs, civil society, and I hope that in Croatia a percentage of those citizens who believe in this big project will be sufficient. I am personally convinced that this plan of ours is feasible and enforceable and that not only our wish but also realistically that we will be given a date in March and that the negotiations will end by the end of June. We are also left with all of us who are involved in international affairs, lobbying in national parliaments in order to implement the referendum in time and so that it does not stop us in that date that we hope is 1.1.2013. We also need to know that it is formally believed that the negotiations began in 2005 when we received a date for the start of negotiations, but much earlier, in fact, the whole process of joining the European Union began. Our experience will definitely be important for all other countries, and it should be kept in mind that this experience where criteria have been introduced will for the first time contribute to the quality of our negotiations, but that it will certainly guide others to the need for reforms. I think we've made remarkable progress and we're going to get a date based on all this in March. The next international conference is in April, and another conference should be in June, and I believe that we will end it all, and we will continue to work to improve the entire system. We see that the Hungarian presidency has seriously begun, that they are constructively continuing all the activities and we believe that the process will definitely be completed by the end of June, and on that road we are also encouraged by the resolution we heard about, the European Parliament that was adopted in Strasbourg on 16 February in which we are definitely praised about the progress and all the shifts we have made. So I support this report and I think that we should continue to work, as Parliamentarians in this part of lobbying and internally, at our local levels and expertly on our contacts and on international travel to Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69030	Thank you. It is next to the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69031	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, in the Belgian presidency, we closed down a number of chapters, now we could do more, we couldn't possibly do it anymore, let's turn to the future, we're left with six other chapters, two of which stand out, but two of them stand out. Chapter 8 - Competition and 23. Justice and fundamental rights. First of all, Chapter 8 - Market competition. What's this chapter about? It makes us have such an economy that will be competitive in the European environment, according to European rules. It's not easy to meet. There is likely to be loss, further loss of jobs, perhaps shut down the entire industry if they fail to restructure so that they remain competitive. In any case, the rules are clear, there are no incentives, no state intervention and if they are not competitive, if they fail to achieve products at acceptable prices, that they can sell their products on the world market, and without state intervention, they will fail. What concerns us, however, is that we are destroying our own competitiveness where it already exists. There are hundreds of examples, I'll single out only one that's the most drastic, which is so drastic that it's just incomprehensible. This is an example of Jadrankamen from Brac, a small town of Pucisca on the island of Brac. Jadrankamen is the site, so Pucissus is the site of this white limestone that is unique in the world. The White House is made of it. They've got other marbles, there's Italy marbles all you want, but there's no such white limestone anywhere in the world like this. So we're competitive here. While there are 500 years of stone, we can still exploit it and export it. No European rules prevent us from doing so because it is not there, it is simply not in the world. And look what happens to us, in the '90s there were 600 employees, the profits were always in the company, the salaries were 30% higher than the average salary in Croatia, the job you love. And then comes the privatisation, comes the Oresar. The audit has established irregularities in privatisation. In 2001, criminal charges were filed, in 2003, charges were filed, and then everything stopped. In 2010, the state's attorney's office gave up, probably due to antiquity, the deputy state's attorney doesn't know how to explain to the workers why it gave up. Between 2001 and 2003, those irregularities were not very much, I guess, fear after that criminal application. But from 2003 to today, there's been a ruthless robbery of that company. Bruno Oresar is raising bank loans, and the guarantee is Jadrankamen, sharing loans with his friends, all criminal types themselves. It builds a Brač stone into its failed entrepreneurial venture in Novi Vinodolski. In one word, he steals and destroys the Adriaticman. Today, creditor banks are threatening to block accounts, the finance ministry is threatening to block accounts because no contributions have been paid, workers are not getting paid today. In one word, where we were competitive, where we're competitive, where not only are we competitive, where we're unique, we're destroying our substance. I talked to the Adriatic workers yesterday and I tell them trust in the rule of law, so I guess the rule of law will take care of it, and they tell me that watching and privatization was a legal state and the Oresar was a legal state, so he didn't take it by violence, he gained it in one legal procedure. It's a legal state. And the 2001 criminal application is a legal state and the 2003 indictment is a legal state and the non-compliance by the State's attorney or the courts is a rule of law. And they tell me to move away from me with your rule of law, that your rule of law has brought us here and brought us here. That's what the workers of that quarry say. They are ready for anything to save their jobs and save the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69032	Your Honor, you've gone a little too far on the subject, so come back a little bit. ... Here you go. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69033	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I didn't but I didn't step away from the topic by one millimetre. I am talking about competitiveness within the European environment, how and how this competitiveness is destroyed where it could be. So the workers are ready for anything to save both the Adriaticman and their jobs. They're ready to take the quarry. They've got a deal there, they've got a deal. It's not a problem to sell that stone. They strike for one hour only because they will not strike to fight for their rights but will work to fight for their positions. They're responsible people. They say they're ready to come with... Mark's square. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then these tin bars won't be enough dam to stop them. These are people who are determined, hard, harder than the stone they're taking out. They say we were in the '90s wearing an HV sign on our shoulder, and Bruno Oresar was wearing a Nicka sign on his shoulder and was... partner in tennis matches with President Tudjman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Their colleagues and colleagues burned to their fingernails. Now, if they take the company, if they come with their machines to Mark's Square, I wonder what will happen to Chapter 23? Will you send the police on them too? Will you stop their protests as you prevented the facebookers yesterday? But if this government is unable to protect the position of the Adriatic Stone, if it is unable to get rid of its pet Oresar, if it is unable to undo that robbery privatisation, then it is my dear last hour of elections because otherwise these people will seek that justice on the street. And only human misery, political and moral, will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69034	Thank you. I must say, after all, you've moved away from the subject. And I'd like to pray that we stick to the subject so we've agreed at the club meeting, that we'll make sure that we stick to the subject so it doesn't create any trouble. And we have four replicas. One true God has already been to the end, but this time we will confess. The first is Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69035	I agree with you that even the question of competitiveness on our market is an even bigger problem than Chapter 23. Justice and human rights. It's the biggest problem, the strongest and the biggest troubles we find right from there. The question and the public procurement and how we do business in our market at all. Here's the latest example, I believe, unfortunately, because I've seen the file. The most favourable offer for the state-owned company, therefore the Pleuler company in its total state-owned possession decided that the most favourable offer, please, is the one offering to the state and the state for a kilo of tea sausages 130 kn, potato 25 kn, kg fruit 70 kn, yogurt 7 kn. Now you see how the state declares with the highest talking through the mouths of top officials how it saves on water, how it saves on staples. But the bona fide for these chosen ones, please, have been selected as the best bidders. Why didn't someone come forward with a normal offer? Well, it's a matter of political corruption a couple of excellences. So no one dares to compete in advance, because he knows, if he offers goods, that he dares not offer goods that are acceptable, but here we come to the choice of the best bidder whose price is three times higher than in free sale. So what are we talking about by a state-owned company?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69036	Dear MPs, you've replicated something that the distinguished representative Stazic did not speak at all in his basic presentation. I beg you, I beg you, be polite and behave like this. I didn't mean to interrupt, but from now on, I'm gonna hang up. Don't do that. That's what we agreed. That's what your representative of the club agreed. Don't do this. It is up to the distinguished, distinguished representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69037	Thank you. Speaking of the competitiveness of fellow Stazic, he mentioned an example of the Adriatic Stone, so destroying, devasting a successful firm and something that is really of great importance not only in us in Dalmatia, but it seems to me to be for the whole of Croatia. It is a paradigm case of how some things were done, as well as what my colleague Stazic said under the law. Or interpreting the law in a way like this. I think it'll be pointless for all of us here together, no matter what political option we belong to, to sit down and watch calmly that these things pass by us. Indeed, citizens will rightly begin to ask the question of who we are, who we are, who we serve and why we exist as politicians at all. If we are not prepared from this place, in this, therefore in the Croatian Parliament, in Parliament we will openly say that we will do everything but not hypothetically, not in the Condicional, but in this moment, to punish those who do so, to answer for these crimes that they have committed against the future of Croatia, Dalmatia, then we are really doing nothing for the island. And I'll just mention that Mr. Oresar is currently destroying another firm. It's a role model. Women's day is coming up, only women are on the street. It was a model firm. Well, can all this really happen without us saying anything. Well, we should all scream together that we won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69038	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69039	You are calling on your colleague Jurjevic to act immediately and now. But you see, the Vice President of the Parliament, when I talk about it, warns me that I'm out of the picture. 300 families live there. 300 families for me are the topic in this House. And there's nothing more important to me than that they're working in sweat digging that rock today without pay and without bread, having nothing to feed their families. There's no more important topic in the House for me. And colleague Jurjevic, these appeals of yours, I'm afraid, do not fall on fertile soil, if Vice President of the Parliament is the fate of 300 people off topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69040	Your Honor, demagogy is a powerful weapon, but it's not in the agenda this way. I have warned you to stick to the subject, I will continue to warn you, as it is and your representative of the club has accepted that you will stick to it, and if you want and feel it is necessary to put it on the agenda to discuss this, and any other topic, there is a Rules of Procedure on which each topic can be placed, placed on the agenda and discussed within the Rules of Procedure. I therefore warn you again and ask you to stick to the agreement that has been reached and to stick to the topic in the debate. The fate of 300 people is important, if we have to put it on the agenda and discuss it, but we can't use it in the context of a point that really doesn't matter. Thank you very much. And now we have one more, two more replicas, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69041	Dear fellow Stazic, you have properly warned therefore that the only thing that depends solely on the competitiveness of the national economy depends on the quality of life in Croatia. Unfortunately, because of the economic situation, most economic operators do not have the capacity of investors in innovation, research and development. Fortunately, there are a lot of generous resources in the Union's programmes, but what is our problem, therefore, is that, apart from fighting the distribution of funds in IPA projects, there are almost no applications for Union projects where funds can be obtained to strengthen the small and medium-sized economy, for innovation, for research and development. Unfortunately, there is no capacity for the national level of government, especially local and regional levels, to prepare for what will open the door for numerous funds to encourage regional development, and thus to improve the competitiveness of local and regional environments, not in national frameworks, but in the European Union. I therefore propose that we declare general mobilisation in Croatia, to strengthen administrative capacity and to strengthen the capacity of a large number of individuals, institutions and business institutes and advisers in order to really at a time when we open up much more opportunities to be able to write quality projects, so that we can motivate partners in the European Union and the European Union to jointly report projects that will be approved by the European Union and implement these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69042	Thank you very much. And we have the last line, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69043	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Stazić, you mentioned the company that is located in the place where I come from, from which they work, so the people I went to school with, I played football with, and it's certainly very difficult to come and then talk about the rule of law in the situation that you mentioned. You mentioned competitiveness. So it's not even a textile that you can produce cheaper in China, so it's the only stone that, the Brač Stone can only be on Brač, because Brač is not Australia that big, and the real art is to ruin such a company. But it worked. To make things more absurd, today the workers and leaders of that company's trade union are leading the bank's administration by trying to postpone the payment of loans and the blocking of accounts because they know they have orders that the company can normally deal with those mortgages left by the owner. And one more thing. You and those who do not receive wages have sent aid from 10 thousand kuna workers to the role model mentioned by Mr Jurjevic, because they are in an even worse situation, and we can talk about that brotherly solidarity, very often it is not a joke, unfortunately the situation is too serious. I hope the government, if not this one, then the next one finds a way to get that company back, because otherwise the place I come from will be literally dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69044	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69045	Yes, the unions go to the banks, the unions try to postpone at least the blockade, at least until the government changes to do so, until the election, to maintain the Adriatic Stone. But look, this isn't an individual case of a failed manager, owner, tennis player and sparring partner of President Tudjman. Bruno Oresar has enjoyed political protection all these years, because it couldn't last since '90. To this day. Well, Mr. Bauk didn't enjoy my protection and your political protection. He enjoyed the political protection of those who run this government today, all these years political protection has not been processed. As a result, 300 jobs may be endangered today, 300 families on the verge of hunger.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69046	Thank you. I'd pray you stick to the subject, and from now on I'll have to really break up because this doesn't make any sense that we're going to discuss it that way. There are a lot of cases in which we could discuss here today. Let's put it on the subject, and we'll discuss it. It's the honorary representative Jerko Roshin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I beg forgiveness in advance for my speech, because I will talk about this subject, I will not talk about anything else, such as the practice in this House to use one topic, and then you talk about God asking you what. Of course, what's said about the Adriatic Stone and the model is worth our attention and it may be worth a special debate about it, but not within this point. So they turn out to be speaking on the subject as purely as one political marketing, and not to worry about a solution to a problem that exists objectively, and I agree, but it's solved in this way, but it's a problem, not just a talk about it. So I would talk about what I signed up for, about this report, and I think there's nothing against it because it's neatly shown, the state of the negotiations, and in that sense I support it. But whether the contents of this report could have been different, obviously not, for it maintains the condition it is, no matter how much or what our expectations may have been for that to happen. What is important for this report in the first place is the fact that this is the first report to be made after the decision to make these reports, so after the law was passed at the end of 2008, and that this report actually speaks of a sort of admission to the EU, meeting certain conditions. However, in this case as well as in the case of skating, there are technical elements that are evaluated, and there is one always objective, or subjective artistic impression. At this point in this report, we are talking practically about this technical part regardless of how someone on his part and with their interests and with their strategy and tactics evaluates it, but I think that the report for the period from 107 to 3112 last year at the time of the Presidency of Belgium to the Council of Europe, the EU means well, in detail and responsibly made up. All that further talk will be about Europe and our quest to end our negotiations with Europe as soon as possible and as soon as possible to become a member of the EU. And in that context, I would like to begin by pointing out something that is rarely mentioned. I would assess the very good work of the very mission in Belgium, the very team that is extremely, extremely exposed to the great effort to arrive all those delegations that are arriving in Belgium, and I would especially like to point out Mr Branko Baričević, but then all the others who are working in it. Rarely, when we have opportunities in the Assembly to praise someone, or we have occasions, but those praises are missing, we are mostly concentrated on temptation. In the past six months of the second part of last year, Belgium has actually been of double importance to us. It is of paramount importance, Belgium as a country where all important talks are held in Brussels, in part in Strasbourg, but mainly in Brussels, and it was also important as the country that holds the presidency. And in that sense, I think Belgium has continued to practice and our expectations of a good work in cooperation to move forward towards our goal. I am also saying this from my personal experience not only reading the report, I am speaking from personal experience as a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee because in this way I have witnessed events in Brussels, at least several times, and especially at this moment that we are discussing the Belgian Presidency when we saw that this tendency of Belgium towards us was very well expressed positively in relation to us. Unfortunately, the expectations I personally had were not met, at least during the time of Spain, the Spanish presidency that was before, that is, in 2009, when we discussed that there might be a possibility that until the end of the presidency's mandate the negotiations would end, but as I was extremely pleased with the Spanish intervention, I am also pleased with the Belgian mediation. We were last in Brussels in November as a joint parliamentary committee. We talked about a few key topics. Of course, it was inevitable that Chapter 23 was discussed with a lot of the aspects of this chapter. So was the Competition in which the issue of shipbuilding was raised, but it was an interesting topic that was discussed and actually a topic that came out of itself that was a question of media use, i.e. media engagement at the promotion of Europe as our destination of political and how much the Croatian public is actually prepared, sensitised for it. In that sense, I can only think of one statement from Split, so from one city that in its behaviour is heavily based on dissipation, but it's a category that can't be missed that says that if you don't want me, I won't miss you either. So, one topic that when we get some reactions from abroad or from Europe is that they probably don't want us in some of the comments that are read or listened to, then that's how this kind of reaction occurs. But, on the other hand, when you approach it differently, then that reaction is absolutely for you. I am particularly pleased that, in the mandate of the Presidency of Belgium, 8 chapters have also been temporarily closed, and among other things, one that I particularly cared about is the question of the environment. Because we worked a lot on the topic of the environment and a year before that we were very successful in presenting everything that Croatia has done in a legislative way to protect the environment all the time. The last time he came back from Belgium, as through the media, he leaked the date of 21/06 this year as something that could possibly be the conclusion, the end of this story. Of course, it was nothing official. That news came through media channels, possibly like some kind of incentive to us, to make it look like it wasn't an ad calendaras graecas or never did. How realistic it is and how unconfirmed it is, and he would not do it, but he just wanted to point out that someone was thinking about it. The EU certainly wants us, the European Union wants us to join the EU. Because we don't think they want us, they wouldn't want us. So, even against such attitudes, there is a lot to be fought in public. But I could also say that there is a pathology in our society exposed everywhere and even through this assembly where we talk about ourselves much uglier than outsiders who officially judge us really think about us. It seems to me that we do not need such self-criticity because it often does not suit reality and is often the subject of a political competition for our internal Croatian needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69048	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69049	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it was pleasant to listen to a fellow Roshin who gave positive examples, and a positive example is certainly our entire negotiating team, the whole team, all those numerous associates who have worked here to overcome all these possible problems that have been put before us, and I think that should be pointed out all the time, because let's remember who has prevented us all, in which ways and so forth. I am sorry that my colleagues did not mention another positive example, the same in the tennis world, the president of the Croatian Tennis Federation, Mr. Radiir Cacic, who paid his salaries 2, 3 days ago for October to his workers. It's a really good example, let's see how the future economic strategist Kukurik coalition will pay salaries otherwise in state services. Because Coning's competitiveness will suddenly rise as Mr. Cacic comes to power. It's definitely, as it grew between 2000 and 2003. Because jobs will be given according to European criteria, without competitions, without construction permits or anything like that, it will be late for a little bit less. This is how every honour, the salaries for the Coning workers arrived, fellow Stazic will probably go to pick up workers to bring them here to the square, as he was in the Adriatic Stone and so on, so I think the perspective of Croatia is extremely good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69050	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Honorable Andrej Plenkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69051	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Perhaps at the end of the morning part of the debate on this report during the Belgian Presidency, several comments and answers according to the topics which were touched during the debate. First, thanks to all clubs and all MPs who have come forward for their support in the report by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the course of negotiations during the Belgian Presidency. As I have already noticed, the topic of negotiations always generates other current political or economic issues that are to some extent related to everything that membership in the European Union carries to Croatia. In this respect, I have noted in particular all the exposures relating to additional activities in meeting the criteria for Chapters 8 and 23, so competition and justice and fundamental rights, on which the Republic of Croatia will be committed to work until the end of the negotiations, they will probably come to an end on the agenda, and reports whether they are NGOs in Croatia or NGOs international organisations, are one point of view of our obligations, one angle of view of meeting the criteria. The government has submitted its report to the European Commission, which is a complete demonstration of all achievements over the past few months and its main message is that all reforms concerning Chapter 23 of the irrevocable character are i.e. to see the trend in which the Republic of Croatia will continue to meet. The issue of consensus remains quite clearly present in the Assembly, although certain nuances on certain European topics are well and normally different. About the communication strategy, everyone is welcome to engage in information activities. The government plans after March, when we have a clearer situation around the end of the negotiations, to start an information campaign in the media, whether it's electronic or press. And many conferences and gatherings have been organized over the past year, I personally have had more than 50 public appearances throughout Croatia. All who wish to be part of this process are welcome, and the role of representatives in the Croatian Parliament is inevitable given the geographical representation in the Republic of Croatia. The last topic that seems important to me, and it is related not to the Belgian, but to the Hungarian presidency, the question of the date which has also touched here. Given the complexity of the negotiation process, given the consensus on enlargement, that is, the European Union of 2006 where the date is quite timidly mentioned, i.e. It has indeed been left for the very end of the negotiations, I think that at this stage we must be both bold and courageous and confident because indeed after 6 years we have made great shifts and it is time to define from April to June not only the end of the negotiations but the very membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. The Croatian public should also know that in 2002, when political negotiations were technically completed, the heads of state and government made it clear on 1 May 2004 as the date of entry into the European Union of the 10 members then. Therefore, in order to define all those aspects relating to the financial package, Croatia needs a date of entry rather than just the end of the negotiations. And we will insist on that in all political and diplomatic contacts. And I was with the Prime Minister last week in Strasbourg, and I was really aware that everything, but indeed all political groups in the European Parliament, Croatia, are experiencing as the next member of the European Union, and they believe that they have come under conditions for making a final political decision on this. I thank you for all the useful suggestions for completing the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69052	Thank you. Now, we're gonna stop this morning's debate, and we're gonna continue at 3:00. The first in a single debate is the esteemed representative Dragutin Bodakoš. Thank you very much. We continue with the afternoon session, as I announced, we continue to discuss the individual report on the course of the negotiations process of the Republic of Croatia, the European Union during the Presidency of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Council of the European Union from 1 July to 31 December 2010. It's time for the distinguished representative of Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69054	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say with a few indications something about the report. I think it is also evident from this report from that Presidency of Spain that in 2010 it was one successful year in negotiating or opening and closing chapters, here it was concluded that negotiations opened in 2010 and provisionally closed negotiations in 11 chapters. Therefore, when we look at statistics like this, we should certainly say that it was a successful year that slowly but certainly brings us to an end to the discussions or negotiations that we had. The conclusion of this report is also that in preparation for EU membership, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will continue to fulfil all its commitments in implementing reforms and strengthening the administrative structure in order to meet all the criteria for closing the remaining chapters. We see from this report also that indeed these standards have been sufficient, it is concluded that 104 measures have been taken to close this chapter 31, but I think it is very bold when we talk about closing certain chapters and we have closed them if it is not checked before that that meeting these criteria brings us in relation to the economy and the standard of living of our citizens. This is a question, often I really prefer to close one of the criteria, and to close it, however, as this reflects on the life and economy of the population, we will probably see it when we enter the European Union. The conclusion is also that since 2005, we have made a continuous progress in the negotiations, yet there is one feature that we are the longest-negotiated country to which many standards are being tried, or to set new standards to probably be more prepared as such in the European Union. These criteria and standards may be good for them to be placed especially in the fight against corruption, probably that it was not so much expressed that the question of whether or not they would have solved and come to this level of fight against corruption. But there are also these chapters where we had to meet certain requirements that directly threatened our economy, one of these is the abolition of the ZERP that we have brought, then in agriculture the aid law which is so set up that in 2011 and 12 years it comes under a large questionnaire of existence and development of further development of livestock farming or, say, fishing, we have certain regulations on which we witness that fishermen are rebelling against them, let's say banal but true record keeping on Latin and similar things. So I think there is a concern of certain groups of populations that are not sufficiently familiar with the standards we meet, which they will mean, and when we look at it, it is specific to Chapter 11. Agriculture and rural development or that has been opened for a long time, however, this chapter has long been opened, and we cannot resolve all the issues to close it. And the same issue of fishing that has long been waiting to be opened is finally open, however, expectations that will be closed are also problematic, so these two chapters have been spoken of for a long time, however, when closed, I don't know because we are always present only those 23rd and 8th competitiveness, i.e. the judiciary, and let's say these two chapters are important for the economic development of Croatia. That is why the expectations regarding the closure of chapters are particularly high, but there are also great fears in people who deal with this problem, because they are asking the question of how it will all be negotiated and certain fears that this production will be defined by us after the closure of this chapter. The questions let me just mention two issues that are very important, this is a question of support that farmers certainly expect and do not know how they will be dealt with specifically about agricultural areas that are under mines and which as such are not included in this agricultural land that belongs to direct payment. However, it will demine itself as such should be. The issue of reduction of aid in 2011 and 2012 under the Aid Act is being reduced, as are the references for support to be paid in the European Union. In particular, it is a matter of livestock farming where we are witnessing, and now you can see that these protests, i.e. the meetings of peasant associations, are going to ask for the payment of these aids, especially in milk, to the hero, to the pigs that are entirely, and the support is halved and as such endangering our production, and just as a reference for European support, will be the part when and how they are paid. The other thing is that the same thing is on the questionnaire and it is still unclear, and through this criterion it should be resolved, it is a question of the competitiveness of our products after EU entry. A few things are important here for this product to be competitive, it's primarily land editing. Many of the old EU members have arranged their surfaces, circled their land, led the roads, expanded the irrigation network, and just as they did in the EU and created their agricultural producers to be far more competitive than they would be ours as such. In addition, the size of the property, I didn't think that I was so slow, the size of the property, the VAT issue, the price of the input, the food industry, the storage, export restrictions and the openness of imports are all issues, let's say these countries of the old members have a subsidisation of their export products. If those with such products come to us to compete here, the question is how and how will our production and our manufacturer be able to compete with them. Normally, these are all the questions that are asked in terms, which are set in our demands that something extends to us or puts us in a position that we don't have to respect all of this in the year that we enter. And that's exactly what's important, and that's what people are interested in, that's what our producers are interested in, and that's why there's a particular fear of farmers, primarily because of their entry into the EU. And I think that's what we said and talked about the possibility of people getting to know all these things as best as possible that when all this is over and when there's a question of signing that contract, or a referendum. Also, what is more important and what is certainly present is the issue of development and bringing to the level of production of all cities that are normally involved, but especially when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja as Osijek and the rest of our cities where there must have been one significant production. And it's the same thing about Corridor VC that's got to be important about Europe. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69055	Thank you. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss the first wheel. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69056	Report on the ongoing negotiations process of the Republic of Belgium during the Presidency of the Council of the EU from 1 July to 31 December 2010. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The abovementioned report is accepted". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? Unanimity with 100 votes to accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69057	We move to point 3, that is - Report on the implementation of the official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2009. Carrier of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 10(3). Law on development cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Foreign Policy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Mario Nobilo, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69058	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Since obtaining independence, the Republic of Croatia has been a recipient of development aid thanks to numerous bilateral and multilateral partners for which we thank them from the heart. After 2 decades of receiving development aid, the time has come to show our gratitude and return to the International Community by joining the club of countries providing development assistance to developing and transition countries. Two years ago, Croatia officially became a donor country, which was formalized by the creation of a legal and institutional framework in December 2008 when a Law on Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Assistance was adopted in the Croatian Parliament. In parallel, the Department for International Development Co-operation has been established within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, thus setting up a necessary organisational unit for the implementation of development and humanitarian assistance. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration has an obligation to coordinate the overall development assistance between the authorities of the State Administration, local administrations and self-government and public institutions, and to process all the data collected has given birth to the document in front of you. During last year, Croatia's official development aid amounted to around 129.5 million kuna and was targeted in 30 countries. The biggest recipient of Croatia's development assistance was BiH with approximately 113 million kuna, accounting for a total of 89% of the total official development aid. Croatia's official development assistance focuses on transferring experience from political and economic transition, the EU accession process, health reforms, civil society development and the process of bringing society into line with EU standards. The second place is Afghanistan with a million-and-a-half kuna, and third Serbia with 735 thousand kuna. From the report, we have expressed the addition to the list of projects in the field of official development cooperation, thus fulfilling the obligation of a transparent demonstration of development aid activities and responsible management of taxpayers' money. Under the conditions of limited human and financial resources, Croatian development aid has concentrated primarily on the countries in our environment and that BiH, Serbia, Montenegro and Kosovo, which we believe our acquired knowledge and experience could be of the greatest benefit. Furthermore, development aid has been directed to countries where the Croatian Peace Corps contributes to maintaining international peace and security, and in 2009, Afghanistan was second in the recipient countries of Croatian development assistance. Finally, Croatia's development aid has been directed to sub-Saharan African countries among the EU's development policy priorities, thus contributing to the Millennium Development Goals. Compared to other countries, aid providers available with more or less financial resources, Croatia adds a new value to the donor community with their own comparative advantages, which include knowledge and experience acquired during political and economic transition, the construction of a post-conflict society and the EU accession process, meeting the specific criteria presented for the first time in front of a future EU member. Countries in Southeast Europe have shown a significant interest in these specific Croatian skills that we are already selflessly sharing. I would like to emphasise that providing development assistance is a very complex and sensitive process that can be affected by a number of unpredictable and hard-to-measure factors. Therefore, when planning development projects, a wide range of parameters should be taken into account by analysing the overall costs and benefits. In turn, it is encouraging that the provision of development aid in today's globalised world aims to bring together the efforts of different bilateral and multilateral partners by not relying solely on the strengths of a single country. A number of problems facing development partners in the field need to seek coherence in order to achieve the effectiveness of development aid. It is possible to achieve this by developing relations with other bilateral donors and international organisations and by including representatives of civil society and the private sector. Let me point out only one example of Croatia's successful partnership cooperation with the international migration organisation that has resulted in the construction of a health home... and the province... in Afghanistan whose services are used by 23 thousand people from 35 surrounding villages. As a country that has been receiving development aid for years, we have witnessed the positive and negative consequences that development aid can have on the ground, despite the donor's best intentions. We have learned that donor countries should not impose their conditions in providing development aid without respecting the specific development needs of the recipient country, i.e. its political economic conditions and real needs. We have learned that the key prerequisite for achieving success in development cooperation is unequivocal support of the recipient country and its clear recognition of its own development priorities in self-initiated efforts. We have also learned that in order to achieve sustainable results, it is very important to avoid creating dependence on helping the recipient country as far as possible if we transfer knowledge and strengthen its institutional capabilities. The lessons learned must certainly be applied in the new role of the donor country in order to achieve the main intention and objective of development cooperation, which is to reduce poverty and promote economic and social efforts. We must also bear in mind that each beneficiary country must have primary responsibility for its own development or ownership of development processes with the mobilisation of domestic resources. The effective implementation of the international development cooperation policy places Croatia today as an equal and credible partner at global and regional level and opens up a range of opportunities for participation in international political and economic processes. I would like to point out that the provision of official development aid to a country must in no way be identified as an act of Samaritan or humanitarian organisations. On the contrary, we need to develop a development partnership with countries that are ready to provide investment in the field of public private partnership as a basis for sustainable economic development. With respect to ideals or pragmatic reasons, we are aware of the complexity of providing development aid, the development of international development assistance policy will seek to integrate more and more strongly into the long-term strategic planning of Croatia's foreign policy. In doing so, we will seek to make the results of Croatia's development cooperation better recognised both domestic and international. We will certainly act responsibly so that each kuna spent for development aid is invested in a smart, efficient and transparent way. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69059	Thank you. Would the Committee's representatives like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the club's turn first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Republic of Croatia has been in a kind of transition phase for some time now when it comes to international development aid. As we heard from the very detailed State Secretary's report at the beginning, Croatia has been a beneficiary of international development aid since its very beginnings, and this phase has been particularly expressed during the war and after years when one of the most important priorities and aid has been to return and rebuild. During all these years, however, Croatia has received and received, in part, development aid and we believe that in different ways we were directly or indirectly involved in the process whether it was local communities, or individuals. FROM this experience, although it is a European experience and it is not all applicable to other parts of the world that are receiving help, I think it is extremely important that what Mr. Secretary said is that we learn lessons from this experience and try to apply these lessons at this stage when we start to develop this policy more seriously. So, at the same time, we have adopted the universal objectives we have adopted with membership or preparation for membership in a number of institutions to mention the United Nations or the European Union that we will also accept, in accordance with the level of development achieved, and the possibility of participating as a provider of international development assistance. And although the Republic of Croatia has been giving international development aid for some time now, we have only been aware of the need to approach this important area more systematically and to approach in a transparent and systematic manner the definition of strategy, implementation plans and public reporting on the same. In accordance with the obligations made in Chapter 30 of external relations, Croatia has accepted that when it becomes a member of the European Union it participates actively in this Union policy, which is the world's largest donor in this area. However, it is important to point out that it is involved in the implementation of the so-called implementation. The UN's Millennium Goals, the development objectives identified by a series of European Union documents, international development assistance, is an integral part of our foreign policy. A more systematic approach to this area began several years ago so that we now have a strategy that regulates this area, which has very clearly identified what the objectives and priorities of our development international assistance are. Thus, in geographical terms, our priorities and according to this and the vast majority of financial assistance are directed towards the immediate neighbourhood. The secretary of state spoke of the order, in the first place Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. the country surrounding the country of Southeast Europe. The countries outside that circle, where we targeted certain funds in 2009 are also significant countries with war conflicts and Afghanistan is already mentioned, and the poorest countries of the African continent. And even though when you look at the tables, you'll see that it amounts to you, when it comes to these countries of the African continent, I think that at this stage, it's very important that we cover as many as possible and that at least this way we try to be present in that part of the world. Today in the world, 2 and a half billion people still live with less than $2 a day, and therefore it is no wonder that the work of all responsible members of the United Nations is the eradication of poverty. So while in some other areas it can really be talked about development and what it brings in the good part of Africa and in other parts of the world it's about the most basic need to get people out of poverty, that children have water, etc., something that seems completely normal and natural to us from this perspective, and we can't possibly imagine that such things can be that kind of needs, and in a big, good part of Africa. As regards the type of aid provided, it is in the range of humanitarian aid, so on the occasion of certain humanitarian disasters that occur, to help education, to preserve health and similar areas. Therefore, we welcome the first such report and the debate on it in the Croatian Parliament, the report has indeed been made very professionally, gives a good review and exhaustive list of projects that were funded during the year 2000 in the debate on this committee we have concluded, given our specific experience that perhaps Croatia has not yet been able to come to what it is doing on this plan, so there are more projects that have not entered into this report following some procedures and we hope that in the following reports, indeed everything that Croatia is doing on this plan will be covered. However, as the report itself said, we believe that it should be expected in the next period so that the system is further strengthened, and in particular how it should work to raise awareness of the need to provide international development assistance, and in this context I particularly think that an emphasis should be placed on so-called. The multiplier effect that this aid can obtain, which is, in addition to the primary, the positive effect that aid gives to the recipients, certainly raising the country's international reputation, and the different possibilities of which the secretary of state also spoke a little more in detail, which result in Croatia. And in the end, I would point out one area that, from the point of view of what I've been dealing with in this area, seems to be extremely important and the topic that the United Nations' high institutions are really dealing with, so even though this type of assistance through international development aid exists a long range of countries, it has shown that it can't always be put on track, so how much money has gone, big money is shown in these various tables of international development aid, and it is not seen in some countries in particular that the direct effects of this are not seen in some countries. There are many reasons for this being large conferences led etc. in some initial time development aid was conditioned, so it was conditioned if the country gave you money to build a building, then it could say if it was going to build that our companies and it was very open-spoken, so regardless of what it was expected to do somewhere, there was too much of that kind of conditionality and recommendation from the highest levels of the United Nations is that this no longer seems to be so, that this species, that aid is given in one way to really in this process when it is planned and when development aid is implemented to involve the recipient country as much as possible. I think that we have had different experiences on this plan, I would say, but mostly as we matured as a state and institutionally that with this challenge in international development aid, we have been increasingly able to cope, and I think it is our duty that in this area in which we are now beginning to profile ourselves, to stick to what we have appreciated with those who have been helping us, so we certainly respect the institutions and needs of the country itself that provides assistance. And here is why I hope that all of our institutions will take care of it, there are plenty that are involved at this point, and that is also a challenge for one kind of transparency and efficiency at that level, but we certainly have another or two years to prepare until very systematically it is not necessary to enter this process, because the European Union is asking us for an increasing percentage of our gross domestic product that we need to invest in this area, and how this and the percentage will grow, but also a gross domestic product will mean that there will also be significant amounts. Realising that we have a quality report and that it certainly contributes to the development of this area and these policies in the Croatian club of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69061	Thank you. It is next to the HNS club, HSU, the distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69062	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know if we at the HNS Club, HSU got the same report as you got colleague Buric Pejcinović, I don't think we got the same report. I'll try to explain what's going on. I'm going to start with the subject or the title of this report. The President and Vice-Presidents of the Parliament often fully warn us that we must stick to the topic, this time it seems to me that the government has missed the topic, because the report is called the Report on the implementation of official development aid, underlining the development aid of the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about development, then we usually think about what, we think about the development of the economy, we think about the development I don't know, and the improvement of state institutions, the education system, health care, etc., with the goal of which? With a general goal of clearly raising the standard of living and improving the quality of life. That would be some kind of goal and purpose of development. My colleagues and colleagues, if you look at this little report that we have ahead of us, you will see that the Republic of Croatia has allocated significant funds to help abroad, to various institutions, I will talk about it a little bit more, you will see that it is 128 million kuna. It's not a little money, it's a relatively large amount of money if you consider that I, as a scientist, have to say that this year, the Republic of Croatia will allocate 130 million, which is exactly the same amount for all scientific research projects involving 10,000 Croatian scientists, so the same amount. So it's a big asset. How did we divide them? We divided them so that 87.5% of these funds went to BiH, I repeat 87.5%. 7.7% went to international and regional organisations, 1.6% went to the Regional Centre for Entrepreneurship Learning in Southeast Europe, while 3.2% remained for all other countries on this planet. Now, what I would like to say is that we are giving total aid to this type of aid 0.04% of gross social product, the EU seems to me to be asking 0.17% of what I absolutely believe is impossible at this point, and the opposition will probably never have an objection that this should have been increased. I absolutely don't think we can do that right now. So this is already the ultimate effort we've made. Now it's just a matter of fellow Members and colleagues, is this the ultimate effort we've done and we've used justly? Have we directed this money toward those we would really allow to develop faster, to really improve the quality of life in the areas in which we have directed it? Let's start with BiH, which received 87.5% of the total aid. With the Federation of BiH, the Republic of BiH has concluded an agreement on special relations between the Republic of BiH and the Federation of BiH and on the implementation of the project under the agreement, I repeat, under the agreement, 21.1m kuna has been spent. So, a little less than 20% of the total funds targeted towards BiH were spent. So every fifth kuna went to BiH through and through the agreement we have with the Federation. 80% of the funds went beyond the agreement according to criteria that were not given to us by parliamentarians. We don't know anything about these criteria. If you get a little more detailed into the analysis of these items, then you'll be a little surprised. I will read some of the projects related to BiH and then you colleagues and colleagues will conclude whether they were really development projects. In fact, we helped BiH with over 400 projects, you have them in the opening part of the group-based group, but one group is completely left out. Project under regular number 1 rehabilitation of the priest's home, under regular number 2, reconstruction of the parish house in Nova Topoli. Project 12, restoration of the old church, 14 construction of the church, 15 restoration of the church, 18 restoration of the monastery roof, 20 restorations of the foundation of the church bell tower, 23 restoration of the church in etc., 24 restorations of the church crypt, etc. all related to sacral objects, or monasteries or parish offices under projects under regular number 88, 108, 109, 110, 112, 122, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 135, 136, 139, 141, 142, 144, 145, 145, 147, 149, 149, 150, 152, 152, 152, 158, 159, 160, 161, 165, 167, 168, 168, 168, 169, 172, 173 etc. I have nothing against the church. In fact, I know how much the church meant in the history of my people and I know how much it did especially during the Homeland War, but colleagues and colleagues over a hundred projects rebuilding the roof of the bell towers, this one or that one. You know, I'm not sure these are development projects, I'm not sure. Six people in a suit that deploys these funds obviously missed something, they did something. So, colleague Cain has an objection from the bench he'll probably be able to bring it up later, but I don't think these really development projects are. I really mean colleagues and colleagues. In addition, look at the building of the stadium theatre, the equipment of the catering cabinet, all related to Bosnia, covering the tennis court, etc. It's Croatian taxpayers' money. These are the millions who entered the budget through deposits from our citizens who live very hard and certainly wouldn't be hard for them to know that the money really ended up on development projects and programmes that helped someone. And this is help, but I don't think it's development aid. We at the HNS Club, the HSU would suggest that maybe even something different in the future we prepare these reports. We think it would be good, just to try to find some of the items. Helping national minorities abroad for cultural autonomy. And maybe that item should be singled out, like all the ones I've talked about so far. Scholarships for students or students of members of Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia. And it's not direct development aid, but it's help for some other very justified purposes, but don't knock and not mix pots. Scholarships for Croatian language learning. Colombia, Chile, Brazil you saw there were plenty of students who got these scholarships. It is important for us that the third, fourth generation of our emigrants still teach these children Croatian etc. OPet is not development aid at least directly in the right sense of that word but indirectly. So perhaps the future reports should go very carefully through all these items, try to present them to the Parliament in the way that they should, correctly and objectively and transparently, professionally, are all the expressions we have already heard. I don't even find much transparency here because I don't know what criteria six children in Chile will be chosen, students to learn Croatian. Here's where the student users stand. In Macedonia, I understand, says the Macedonian government will decide which children will receive the Croatian scholarship, etc. But in this case some of the states are shown in a way that it's all just not transparent. I'm not against it or our club to give those kids that help, but please let's go professionally, professionally, transparently do the job to the end. It's about colleagues and colleagues about millions, let's not play games, it's a tough time, and it sure as hell can't be done properly if we keep going like this. Even here is the case of India that received development aid from the Republic of Croatia amounting to 900 kuna, the case of Albania that received a 4000 kuna development, etc. You know, these are amounts that can't help one Croatian family, let alone one country, especially one India. Therefore, it should probably try to display this in a different way in the future, perhaps even this department and this whole report should be called, renamed, divided into some subgroups. Anyway, don't make people laugh at us when they read on the Assembly's pages of these titles and these contents in these reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69063	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69064	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here I will start by saying that international development cooperation is aimed at ensuring peace, democracy, protection of human rights, economic and social stability and poverty reduction, and all of course in line with sustainable development, as well as economic and all kinds of other opportunities of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia, too, has already heard from counterpart Buric, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, that Croatia has actually changed its status and has actually moved from the recipient country to the development and humanitarian aid status of donor and humanitarian aid, i.e. gained donor status. It should also be said that in 2008 the Development Assistance Act was passed and a year later, i.e. In 2009, the National Development Cooperation Strategy was adopted precisely for the period 2009-2014 and the framework for the implementation of activities was provided during the five-year period. It should also be said that the European Commission is the largest donor of development aid in the world, and Croatia was expected to reach the level of allocation for development aid of 0.17% of gross national income by 2010, and this was in fact foreseen for the new Member States and by 2015 this level of allocation should be 0.33% of gross national income. Croatia's development assistance in 2009 amounted to 0.04% of gross national income, hence official development and humanitarian aid in 2009 amounted to slightly less than 130 million kuna or 17 million and 600 000 euros, covering a total of 30 countries, compulsory and voluntary contributions to international and regional organisations and through regional cooperation projects. I believe that there is a particular need to highlight the content priorities that Croatia can pass on as well as experience from political and economic transition, creating conditions for the market economy, implementing democratic standards and so on. The value of Croatia's experience in joining the European Union, related to negotiations in chapters relating to social inclusion, the use of the pre-accession IPA fund, the development of civil society, and the experience that Croatia has from war and post-war circumstances such as demining, housing care, judicial medicine, reconciliation, physical and psychological recovery, education, social inclusion, health, environmental protection are certainly very valuable and useful experiences. 2009 Bosnia and Herzegovina was Croatia's largest recipient of development assistance. The aid amounted to around 133 million kuna, and a total of 449 projects were implemented from different areas. Development assistance towards Bosnia and Herzegovina is focused on transferring experiences from political and economic transition, experiences from specific war and post-war circumstances, a programme of assistance and donation of basic building materials to rebuild and build damaged or family homes of 47 million, and most of these funds have been spent on rebuilding and building social and municipal infrastructure facilities. Among other things, construction material was delivered for 180 unfinished houses in Stolce and Capljina and that is, of course, a lot. Well, here's a colleague who just had an exhibit on behalf of the HNS Club, I'd like to actually pay special attention to this dimension. It is also commendable that Croatia participates in the reconstruction of the Mostar Clinical Hospital and the development project of the University of Mostar. A number of religious and cultural facilities, schools, gymnasiums, theatres, museums, cultural homes and rehabilitated infrastructure in certain areas, which should also serve the Republic of Croatia, and the welfare of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, were built and renovated. A number of projects have been implemented in the domain of health care and social care, home care of the elderly and the sick, children with developmental difficulties, health homes and homes for old and powerless and rehabilitation programs. Educational institutions are equipped and have been invested in the preservation of the media and in particular the language. The funds have been provided to support the preservation of the cultural autonomy of national minorities and the scholarship of students in Serbia, Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro. Croatia's peacekeeping forces are operating in Afghanistan, making about a million-and-a-half kuna the work of long-term stability and peace in the country. In accordance with the 2009 strategy, Croatia directed its development assistance towards the world's most underdeveloped countries to raise awareness of HIV, AIDS in African countries provided scholarships and organised seminars and workshops on monitoring, prevention and control of the epidemic. Some development projects have been implemented in countries that do not fall within the territorial priorities of the national strategy but have specific interests in Croatia. This is important for students and their scholarship in countries with numerous Croatian diaspora and for students who study Croatian. This is the case in Argentina, Venezuela, Chile, Peru, Colombia, Syria and South Africa. A little more than 6 million kunas Croatia has directed to the United Nations and humanitarian organisations through mandatory and voluntary contributions that are counted as official development aid. Croatia has granted emergency development assistance to earthquake victims in Indonesia, flood victims in the Philippines, and exchange and transfer of knowledge between countries in the region and beyond has been organised in the area of civil society development. For example, a co-operation agreement has been concluded with 4 associations in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, Croatia and Serbia in order to combat violence against women and in the area of strengthening the international partnership for rural development. Croatia has shown its readiness to act in humanitarian crisis-enhancing emergency interventions. In the future, it will be necessary to establish modalities for the provision of additional funds to increase the level of separation for official development and humanitarian assistance abroad. The very definition of content will resolve activities in this area and show themselves as such that each additional awareness will develop all the actors involved in the successful development aid policy of the Republic of Croatia. Here's the end of the quality report. I'll support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69065	Thank you. It's the honorary representative Jerko Roshin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we finally welcomed the first report, because given the 2009 report, given that the Law that founded such cooperation was just passed across the border in the 12th month of 2008. The first report, which can be said in my court, is quite correct and it gives some indicators, although listening to the debates of others, I find that certain cost categories disagree, but in politics it is always a matter of which criteria some decisions are made or not, and the question of how they can be valorised in this regard. However, the general framework is very good, important and important. First of all, I find it important to point out that Croatia, which has long been a recipient country of this kind of assistance, is a bit turning into a country that no longer needs such assistance but is able to provide such assistance. The definition is that it passes from the recipient country to the donor country and in this place I would suggest that if it is possible that the term country donor is not used, but that it is a friend country to be a donor country of a particular aid, because of the spirit of language, and some language-based awkwardness, because it is a country of a female and the donor of a male race so that the donor might be, if there is already a recipient, logically it would be to be also a donor which I find useful and correct. The past time was necessary when valorising everything said in the report, it was certainly necessary to set up a system, to adopt a certain regulation that the law intended to implement in life, so to adopt a strategy, to organise and to teach the Ministry of Foreign Affairs care about the implementation of this system of assistance is implemented in everyday life. We know that the European Union is the biggest donor in the world, a donor of assistance, and by joining the European Union, we will try to be as good as possible in this regard. The Republic of Croatia has certain obligations it receives, which it has adopted, adopted and adopted by law, taking into account its period until 2015 to implement the principles and policies of the European Union and the Millennium Development Goals. Croatia has made an obligation to implement 0.17% of the gross national product in 2010 and to develop it up to 0.33% by 2015. It is clear from the report that in 2009, 130 million kunas were realised, representing only 0.04% of gross national income realised in 30 countries, and dominantly, almost 90% of it went to about 450 projects in our neighbouring Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We hope and expect that this donation in the 2010 report will reach the planned 0.17%. All donations, all donations made by Croatia will go according to the criteria that Croatia thinks are best represented, that the best benefits of its own resources and its own knowledge, and the expected priorities will be located in the region or southeastern Europe, and also by participating in everything that others are involved with, and these are peace missions that we join. I would ultimately support the report, regardless of possible comments regarding the specification of what was being spent on, and I don't think there are any significant remarks in that sense, I would like to conclude with one thought that, that God gives the value of our donations as soon as possible not as a percentage to which we have committed, or gross national income, but as an absolute amount of money because we will thus best show our development results. So the more we give to others, the more we need, the more gross national income we have at national level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69067	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69068	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here in this report is a visible continuation of a series of activities of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of establishing an institutional framework for the provision of official development assistance, but there are also direct activities which make the Republic of Croatia an aid recipient a donor country. The basis for this report is the Law on development cooperation and humanitarian assistance abroad, which lays a normative basis for all activities, as well as a national development cooperation strategy for the period 2009 to 2014 which provides, therefore, a framework and a direction, i.e. a guidance of aid. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as we have heard here, and European integration is the coordinator of all activities quite well equipped and which has also been developed by the National Development Cooperation Strategy for the Republic of Croatia for 2010 on the basis of, of course, programmes and projects. Of the other activities, mentioned in the report, I would like to highlight the European Commission's report on the development assistance provided by the Republic of Croatia under the negotiating chapter of the 30th External Relations, as well as the confirmation that, after entering the European Union, the Republic of Croatia will be ready to participate in the European Union's development cooperation policy, which is also the largest donor of development aid in the world. In line with this, of course, the Republic of Croatia has obligations, and we have already heard about the detachment of 0.17 gross national income by 2010, and by 2015 as much as 0.33% of gross national income, which would amount to about 1.1 billion kuna. For 2009, it was 0.04%, but here we have to keep an eye on both the economic situation and the start of the transition, and at the same time we are both the recipient and the donor country. Here's the report I want to highlight some facts, which is that the development and humanitarian aid of the Republic of Croatia was aimed at 30 countries, that it amounted to 128 million kuna or 17.6 million euros. Of that, bilateral and humanitarian were 92.7%. Maybe it confused a little colleague of Doric's who was talking here about it wasn't purely developmental help. She's not the basis. This means not only developmental but also humanitarian aid, and multilateral contributions amounted to 7.3% and 9.4 million kuna, respectively. In line with the National Strategy, development cooperation is focused on the priorities outlined, which are strengthening democratic stability, building housing for exiles and refugees, building educational and health capacities. But here I am again, returning to the presentation of my colleagues, Doric, but as a prerequisite for raising the level of education and health services and as a prerequisite for any development at all. Furthermore, the transfer of knowledge and experience to countries of regions, the development of civil society, etc. This aid was certainly the most targeted of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we heard the biggest recipient of development aid and which amounted to €112.8 million for nearly 450 projects and for the transfer of experiences from the political and economic transition of accession to the European Union, for health reforms, for the development of civil society, but also for the exchange of experiences resulting from specific war and after war circumstances such as demining, management of exiles, refugees, rehabilitation of war victims, etc. It is clear from the report that 47m kuna is intended to remove the consequences of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. And without that, there's really no development. We need to get to a certain level of elimination of the consequences of the war so we can even discuss development aid. If we don't get people back there, if we don't make sure they come, we have nothing to develop. Because human-free development really isn't possible. So through the delivery of construction material, reconstruction and construction of social and municipal infrastructure facilities, the rehabilitation of family homes spent a significant part of these funds. I would also like to point out that the Republic of Croatia has co-financed the reconstruction and the equipment of significant facilities, and among the significant facilities I also select the sacral facilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the clinical hospital and the University of Mostar. Many means religious, cultural and educational, but also social and health and infrastructure facilities. Of course, the priorities are defined by the National Strategy and the programme I told you about earlier. Development aid is also aimed at Serbia with 735 million kuna for projects to promote the autonomy of national minorities, but also to build social infrastructure and services in the sectors of agriculture, education, state administration, the development of civil society and gender equality. We see that the help, the development aid aimed at Serbia, did not go towards the removal of war damage. It's directed in a real developmental sense. Help Montenegro, which includes promoting cultural autonomy for minorities and supporting infrastructure projects, Macedonia for the cultural autonomy of national minorities and something for scholarships. The report shows that regional cooperation projects have been spent, meaning through seven projects of €2.4 million aimed at developing capacity and knowledge in the areas of entrepreneurship, civil society, education, state administration and public services. And bilateral development cooperation has been used to help build peace and stability. So, through nine projects. She was carrying out 1.5 million kunas to Afghanistan the most. Furthermore, this bilateral co-operation also focused on the most underdeveloped countries where education and prevention programmes are mainly involved. Then the countries with a more numerous Croatian diaspora and it focuses on Argentina scholarships – Chile – Brazil, etc. The report also shows that the possibilities of the Republic of Croatia have been taken into account, but also means economic and political objectives, as well as the objectives of helping the European Union and the United Nations. But there is still more space here, and this really still needs to be done to identify and modulate the provision of additional funds in order for this assistance to be greater, but also what is significant and more developed cooperation, i.e. partnership between these countries. I will take this opportunity and thank all donors, especially those who have helped demining and who are still helping and demining and helping mine victims, because this is the area in which I worked, and this aid for the Republic of Croatia has so far been 542 million and 280 thousand kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69069	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I believe it's only a lapus, namely that a colleague said that 735 million kuna was set aside for Serbia, it's hard to believe, but here was a small mistake. A thousand kuna, it's thousands of kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69071	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is up to the honourable representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69072	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So before us is this report for 2009, and as good a fact as it is that we have received one such report on insight, the old thing is again that before the MPs comes reports for the previous year or before, when it is already very much passing. It is asked, although many of these items should certainly be commended, which are indeed related to development and even this RND research and development, the question of the criteria by which aid was given abroad, and other criteria by which the money that Croatia has allocated for certain activities beyond its borders is actually included in this report. For example, we have here an item of international and regional organisation, so there are UNEP membership fees, UNID, UNICEF, the World Trade Organisation, the International Atomic Energy Agency and the like. However, this is about membership fees if we want to be a member of international organisations, this should also be paid. And the fact is that after we pay that membership fee on our skills, on the skills of our people, scientists, technicians, experts, engineers, software managers, project managers, depends on how much money we get back. For example, here for the International Atomic Energy Agency is always such a situation that even 10 times more than 15 times in some situations there have been such cases that 20 times more than what we have invested, the other fellow State Secretary knows very well because he was in the international agency and was also a successful negotiator there, and thanks to him and our combined intelligence from the Republic of Croatia, we were able to raise extremely large funds for projects that were then implemented in Croatia. But the fact is, it's extremely debatable whether it's about helping abroad or simply being a membershipist. And even if Mr. Secretary of State convince me that it's development aid abroad, then the question is why are all the membership fees not listed here, as is the membership fee of the State Hydrometeorological Institute in... , which is not negligible, and thanks to this membershipary, the State Hydrometeorological Institute receives insight and disposition, receives meteorological footage and consequently, since the Government financed this membership in 2002 through the Ministry of Science in 2003, we have a better weather forecast in the Republic of Croatia, and consequently we can better plan many activities than sowing, harvesting, and until the normal clothing of everyday days. [[You don't understand.]] So today our meteorologists can, with a plus, minus a couple of ten minutes, predict the precipitation or not. So mine is, on this little example, the question is either to classify all the membership fees or not to classify. But first, we should also agree whether it's foreign aid or our duty. In addition to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we are also obliged to join some of our institutions in their home organisations in Europe or the world, from here on out, VIPO is mentioned, so the International Intellectual Property Organisation, but no mention of VELMEH, BIP, or European ILAH accreditation, etc. Secondly, many of the contributions of the Republic of Croatia to stabilising and learning Croatian language in the international environment of foreign countries, in which it is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, are mentioned, but the question is why not include the lecturers that the Republic of Croatia has in many countries and finance the stay of these people there. Therefore, according to these criteria, this would be a significant contribution to the increase in the total percentage of gross social product that Croatia separates abroad. Or let's say why the permanent help of the Ministry of Science to learn Croatian language as a foreign language in Australia was not included at the University of Macrory because the government signed a long-term agreement with Macrory University in the learning of Croatian language and financing of the project until the year 2015. The resulting Croatian language is the second most popular, I think after French, the second most popular language students choose to learn. So not only does this apply to the second, third-generation Croats, but also to foreign students. So for example, a large number of Chinese students at Macrory learns Croatian as a foreign language. So, if we have decided on a report like this to be done and to discuss it at the Parliament and to offer clearly to the International Community and the EU at its disposition should be far more methodical, the criteria by which certain items are included or not included in the report should be developed. Finally, all ministries, state agencies and state administrations should be combed in order to detect all outflows from the state budget according to such activities, but, of course, it should also take account of clarity, transparency, etc., so that God does not accidentally give up some scriptures could not interpret and as God does not give money laundering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69073	Thank you. And it is up to the individual debate as the last in this debate, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's this report on the implementation of the official, I don't know if there's any unofficial, but here's the official development aid for the Republic of Croatia for 2009 after here's the end of almost 14 months of that year we have a report and here in this material I read that it's among the first reports at all in connection with this. So, one analysis was made, one breakdown to help you. In this parchment, therefore, the efficiency of the Republic of Croatia should be demonstrated in this material, which has coordinated its official programme or official development aid programme, then transparency to read out of this material where these 128 million and 416 thousand kuna went. And finally to emphasize complementarity or comparative advantage. Namely, it says here that the Republic of Croatia directs development aid to areas where Croatia has specific knowledge and experience. I'd say he has specific knowledge, experience, but also interests. It is clear that these interests are expressed according to, therefore, and can also be seen in the monetary amount towards BiH where the constituent Croatian people live. Then, according to Montenegro, where we have a Croatian national minority and according to what I say to Serbia or, above all, Bačka where there is also a number of Croatian national minorities. It was also said that this amount of 128, i.e. 129, is almost millions of kuna, 0.04% of GDP. That it was drawn that and, the Republic of Croatia took the obligation to increase that amount, so from 0.04% in this year even to 0.17%, which is 4 times more than this. Although it's recession time, I'm afraid this is how I'd say one optimistic plan can hardly be fulfilled. In 2015, the gross national income amount would be 0.33%. So it's twice as big as it's drawn, it's 0.17%, right? We would love to see Croatia in this recession, the crisis and the situation in which it found itself and touched the bottom in view of the situation and everything that corruption and crime has done in this country and has destroyed has reached these levels that are spoken of here in the material. In the list, let me say projects, or what has been done, here we have here 559 projects that have helped and co-financed, and not financed to the end because it is quite certain that in some items the costs are far greater than they are shown here. But Croatia, which has helped projects in this development aid, I would really say that, and I would be grateful not to be just critical of how someone thinks we are in the mood, from saying religious facilities, infrastructure facilities, projects in higher education, especially at Mostar University of the Mostar Clinical Hospital Mostar, so also in health, in education and indeed in helping cultural and artistic societies which clearly I believe ran as someone said here. And now there's no question about the criteria, but since this is to say amongst the first reports, we may be given a future report and there will also be criteria for the allocation of funds from development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad. It is also interesting, as a colleague before me who spoke, that here are 23 UN agencies and organisations whose actual membership fee has also entered this report. Here, that's the total amount of 6 million and 59 thousand 719 kuna on page 11, you don't have to ask me to tell you, Mr. Secretary of State, do we have 23 organizations, by UNICEF, UNESCO, UNHCR. In any case, it is commendable that in the case of disasters happening in the world, starting with the war events that we have also survived since '91. '95. In the year, Croatia has also found ways and opportunities in this situation to help countries in which such disasters and war injuries have affected certain countries. I'm sure it's also an interesting amount. I estimated that it is 6 thousand kuna for students studying Croatian, and from countries where there are relatively few Croatian diaspora. These are second, third-generation individuals and that aid is about 6 thousand kuna on average, depending on some small difference between 5.5 and 6.7 thousand per country. So I believe all these students are welcome. That it's a help that's welcome anyway. But I would love to see more of these students studying Croatian, history, culture of their fathers, grandfathers, and if the funds were more significant. In any case, the HDSSB will support this report and I think it is as it was written here for the first time in a transparent, clear, loud and written text, so let's say for BiH all 559 and almost not to make any remarks, because I know almost every place in BiH and I know their needs and I hope that these funds are well and properly spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69075	Thank you. And finally, distinguished Mario Nobilo State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69076	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Just a few short reactions I wouldn't want to pollomise with representatives of this distinguished Croatian Parliament. Just a few comments on some remarks, I wouldn't comment on those that are affirmative, I think it's a good thing for us to have a transparent report in front of the Croatian Parliament for the first time that the state from its official sources doesn't talk about the caritative activities of NGOs, and what comes from official sources, the budgets of local community resolutions, etc. I must stress that it is not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which approves these funds, especially not that department within the third administration of our ministry, but it is actually a department that collects information in some way about the projects offered, about the needs and called collection of statistical information from the portfolio and all that is missing in this report and not reflected in it may be the failure of those who have provided us with this data, from which we have done this summary report. I would like to remove one misunderstanding here and I think in the item when it comes to international organisations or contributions that are not membership fees for the regular operation of those cold-drive organisations, these amounts would be significantly higher for membership fees. These are the appeals of these various funds within international organisations for very specific situations that can be created in Haiti or somewhere and where Croatia within the funds that are so spent is 9.4 million kuna. So he responds to some programs and to some of his own judgments. In that part, our ministry has, as the Ministry of Culture has in its domain, a dominant role in deciding on certain projects, but ultimately this is a summary report through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which provides a transparent picture of what resolutions have spent on helping minorities, helping the constituent people in BiH, helping our diaspora, aid in humanitarian disasters, a civil aspect of our presence in Afghanistan, etc. I agree that this amount in the recession is very large and that we have a much greater obligation to join the EU, and I must say that we have not even drawn close to the goal of the countries of our development which are also spoken of by the UN criteria that expectations from us will be higher but gradually when we enter the EU, that unfortunately neither 10 new or 12 new members, particularly the two who entered the last are even close to reaching that average. Therefore, there is no direct automation, but there are certain expectations that the country is more developed and richer that it is giving that developmental humanitarian aid. Of course, I must agree with those who have said that the horror and help is aimed at helping Croats out in all categories, the constituent people, minorities, diaspora. It is also the logic of our state interest to help minorities of Croats outside Croatia, the logic of helping those who died in the recent war or wars, help their sustainability in these areas and reduce the spilling of Croats from neighbouring countries. Thus, it has its own political and developmental justification. I would further emphasise that often more and more international development aid in the function of the economy, it is in some ways a ticket in some country for more serious business and these components of our ticket to some countries in particular countries in transition will be increasingly. And finally, I'd like to say, for example. Afghanistan, the international community's exit strategy in Afghanistan, is based on the gradual reduction of the military component, and the strengthening of the development component, i.e. the rerouting from military to civilian. And just today, we had an inter-resorial meeting to prepare ourselves for 14 when our military presence is likely to be much smaller in Afghanistan, but it will strengthen this developmental and economic one that usually follows it. What is precious in our experience is that the international system of governance of international crises, and in particular the management of the construction of societies after wars and conflicts, was the most callous in Croatia, Bosnia, in these areas. And we have much more than money, one precious experience, the knowledge of how it is necessary to build sustainability institutions or self-sustainability of development to use precisely Croatian experience, which in our case is much more valuable than the amount we can offer at the moment. I think in the end also that in the future, you will see Croatia becoming more stable, economically richer country in 5, 10 years this structure and help be truly more in function of the incubator of development and may be geographically more globally focused where it takes less on Croats and only neighbouring countries. But we are at such a historic moment where we have assessed where our most real national interests are and this is reflected through this first report which is certainly not perfect, but one new transparency towards this respected Parliament and our public in terms of transparency of spending these funds. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69077	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69078	Report on the implementation of official development assistance to the Republic of Croatia for 2009. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly parent body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The abovementioned report is accepted". Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? With 94 votes in favour, 1 abstention reached a conclusion on the acceptance of the proposed report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69079	We move to point 4, that is - The proposal for a decision to declare "National Day of Combating the Cancer of the Door of the uterus" in the Republic of Croatia Proposer: The Committee on Health and Social Care has proposed this act on the basis of Articles 76a and 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Proposer representative, imported representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, the proposal for a decision to declare "National Day of Combating uterus Cancer" every third Saturday is in fact a multi-annual and public health campaign and joining in the fight against uterus cancer within the European Week against uterus cancer. This is how the Republic of Croatia joined the guidelines of the World Health Organization and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Namely, the World Health Organization has made a global strategy for the prevention and control of sexually transmitted infections from 2006 to 2015, and its four basic strategies are: the reduction of mortality and pain due to sexually transmitted infections, the prevention of HIV spread, the prevention of long-term effects of sexually transmitted infections as malignant sexual organs tumours, especially in women, and the reduction of harmful outcomes of pregnancy in women infected with sexually transmitted infections. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health Cancer Register in the Republic of Croatia, about 400 women suffer from uterus cancer annually and more than 100 patients die. In 2008, there were 360 new women with uterus cancer, and 132 died. Last year 114 women died. Every day a woman is diagnosed with uterus cancer, and every third day a woman dies of this disease. Croatia's anti-cancer league points out that 370 new women with uterus cancer are discovered each year, with a total of 1700 living with the disease. Cervic cancer is the most commonly diagnosed with cancer in women aged 20 to 30, and the second most common in age is invasive cancer between 30 and 50 years. World Health Organization estimates predict that by 2030 the number of people killed by malignant diseases will reach 12 million people worldwide. Now about 1.4 million women suffer from uterus cancer, and about 250 thousand die annually. Some 500 thousand new cases are diagnosed annually. In Europe, according to the European Association for Cervix Cancer, about 60,000 women suffer from uterus cancer every year, about 30,000 die. More than 175 thousand live with this disease. In Africa, 60 per 100 thousand, in the Republic of Croatia 16 per 100 thousand, 20 to 30 of them were injured at 100 thousand. According to the World Health Organization, therefore, church cancer is the second in a woman under 45 years of age, and the third in a row is the cause of death after breast cancer and after lung cancer. What's causing this cancer? It is clear today that human papilloma is a virus in more than 99% of cases of uterus neck cancer, the second most common cancer in the world after breast cancer is the cause of this cancer. So in 99% of the cases, human papilloma virus as a cause of uterus neck cancer. And of course that HPV infection is a sexually transmitted disease, but today attitudes on morality, behaviour, on the spread of the use of contraceptives have changed the relationship to sexuality, especially in the female population. The period before marriages is extended, later married, the decision for offspring is delayed, etc. Therefore, warnings, needs for adolescents who would provide adequate care, or information about sexuality, about reproductive health. So, first of all, they'd say right at the beginning that it's an important education. Primary prevention should include responsible sexual behaviour through education activities, providing counselling for young people, vaccination against human papilloma viruses, and we have also witnessed recent years of debate on health care and sexual education. So regardless of the two programs we had, the pressures and suggestions of different organizations, we didn't give our children what we could. That's what the indicators tell us today. What about the Republic of Croatia? In the past, the Republic of Croatia has achieved significant results in reducing the mortality of this disease. Despite the involvement of experts in reducing the number and early diagnosis of malignant tumours, their number in the Republic of Croatia is still high and has not been reduced in recent years. That's what's worrying us. According to data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health in the Republic of Croatia during 2008 13280 people died of malignancies, i.e. 427 people more than a year earlier. In fact, the last five years have been visible before that we had one path that went in the right direction and where we had a reduction in the number of cancer patients. Since 2005, however, the incidence of uterus cancer has increased. For example, in 2005, the rate was 13.8 per 100,000 inhabitants, 2006. 14.9 per table, 2007. 16,8, 2008. 15.6. So that's one line that stays the same, but that hasn't moved in the last five years. As for mortality in 2005 4.6. and 2009. 5.0 per 100,000 inhabitants. In fact, we see in our female prevention they're going to the PAA test and it's doing very well. However, when you control one piece of information that about a million and 200000 women go to gynaecological examinations and on the PAA test, it usually happens that they are the same women. So, no new women are coming, and that way we could prevent this cancer from happening. So again, the question of women's education is raised. The big thing was done with the National Programme to prevent breast cancer when it was seen that many women went into the examination and developed awareness that mammography and only breast examination were needed. And when you ask them now, they say, it's what I did, and when you did the papal test, then some of them fit. So that PAPA test didn't take. What has our committee done for all this time? In 2009, the Committee proposed a resolution on malignant tumours. 2010 round table promoting the prevention of uterus neck cancer. Starting from all that I have said, members of the Health and Social Care Committee of the Croatian Parliament support the Croatian League's initiative against cancer and the Air Association and believe that for the purpose of education and prevention this day should be marked in a decent and appropriate manner. Knowledge, information and education and really the first thing that education needs first from responsible sexual behavior, and then about everything else, about vaccination and everything else. I hope we can all support this, because today, really, no woman should die of uterus cancer or theoretically or practically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69081	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, the esteemed representative, Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69082	The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament held at the 43rd session held on 16 February 2011 discussed the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Combating Mother's Door Cancer in the Republic of Croatia submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Health and Social Care Committee in the Croatian Parliament by an act of 27 January 2011. The Committee discussed that proposal in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The proposal of the Health and Social Care Committee on National Day Announced the League for Combating Cancer and Air Associations, which will continue a multi-annual public health campaign in the fight against uterus cancer. The neck cancer of the uterus is the most common malignant disease of women between the ages of 20 and 30, and the second is most common between 30 and 50 years of age. In the past few years in Croatia, the number of patients has not fallen but is even on a slight increase, and it is a disease that no woman should die in view of all possibilities of prevention of early diagnostics and treatment in the early stage of the disease. However, according to the Croatian Institute of Public Health Cancer Register, nearly 400 women are sick each year and nearly 150 die. It is therefore necessary to extend the knowledge of the disease, and one method is to declare the National Day of Combating uterus Cancer, the day when educational and preventive actions would be carried out intensively throughout the Republic of Croatia. In the debate followed by committee members, several problems were raised. Despite good availability and the network of specialist doctors, there are a large number of women who do not carry out preventive checks. In fact, a large number of registered examinations do not mean that all women are covered by them because they usually carry out the same women periodically preventive checks. For women who do not miss education and health enlightenment as well as wider social actions that would encourage them to regular reviews. In 2002, the Committee on Gender Equality held a thematic session on Women and Health when support was given for the development of a preventive programme and measures to systematically combat all malignancies in women. The debate highlighted the problem of lack of systematic health care in which young people will prepare for responsible sexual behavior. The importance of primary school education is highlighted, the need to set up reproductive counselling centres for adolescents as well as to encourage women to regular examinations. Furthermore, some units of local self-government, depending on the financial means, have introduced free vaccination but with a small response from interested parents and girls to vaccination due to the great uncertainty and lack of information as pointed out by the Ombudsman for gender equality, as information on the usefulness or harmfulness of the vaccination of girls against HPV is very confusing. Regarding the issue of vaccination, the applicant expressed its opinion that existing vaccines do not offer full protection, and yet there is insufficient data on their safety. It is also indicated that there is no firm position of the world's measuring bodies on the vaccine since it has not been sufficient time since its use began. It would therefore be reasonable to wait for the opinion of the World Health Organization. However, with the introduction of health care in school, it is not necessary to wait or wait any longer. After the discussion, the Committee on Gender Equality unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the declaration of the National Day of Combating uterus Door Cancer in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69083	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69084	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we brought resolution on malignant tumors in this House in 2009, they were then presented with defeating statistics that unfortunately did not line up what we heard from the exposure of counterpart Caparin, so that there are 12 million deaths in the world in 2030 from cancer. Of course, in our country, the situation is also statistically not great, so it registers about 60 cancer patients a day and dies about 35. Here is an illustration in 2008 of malignant diseases that killed 13,000 280 or 427 people more than a year earlier. Surely under these circumstances, the proposal for early detection and cancer prevention programme of 2006 which also states the education and identification of risk groups' symptoms, diets, etc., is certainly welcome, and is particularly necessary to mention by 2006 the national prevention programme for early detection of breast cancers, and which, thanks to God, shows significant results, but when compared to Scandinavian countries in Sweden and so on, we are still far away, because they have indeed achieved envious results in this area. A special place certainly here is the cancer of the neck of the womb, which also in the statistics of the world has no good data, so now the cancer of the neck of the womb suffers 1.4 million women, about 250 thousand women die annually. So every day one registers, every third day one dies, last year it was 114, all written, written in the cancer register that was founded in 1959. And surely under these circumstances it is necessary to make additional efforts and should also be commended for the commendable engagement and association... and the anti-cancer leagues, which have been making great efforts in recent years, are here and the President of the Republic has also engaged the Prime Minister in that part, and in these circumstances comes this proposal, and therefore the decision to declare the national day of combating uterus cancer. [[You don't understand.]] Every third Saturday in January, and that would be, in fact, we join the continuation of the multi-annual public health campaign, and we join the fight against uterine cancer as part of a European week of combating uterus cancer. The World Health Organization guidelines and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control have therefore joined the Republic of Croatia, all in order, as we have heard about the education of breakthroughs and vaccinations. I think the vaccination, since colleague Caparin pointed out that 99%... The HPV virus, that special involvement of the last few years in education is necessary, but also for the involvement of local self-government in the project, therefore vaccinations, and I think that all institutions are increasingly joining it. [[You don't understand.]] Here, in these circumstances, the Croatian Democratic Community club holds that it will certainly mark this day's battle against cancer of the neck of the womb further sensitise the public and triple our efforts, so to reduce these statistics, which unfortunately after some initial successes, here's what we've heard from Professor Eljuga, has been standing on the same level for the last years. So, under these circumstances, surely the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the proposal to mark the day of the battle against breast cancer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69085	Thank you. It's next to the HNS Club, HSU, the distinguished representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few times already said, but never enough, it should be repeated always, because the situation in this area is not good and we have to fight with all the means, so if this repetition of someone's numbers is going to encourage one control checkup, every debate will have its own meaning. In the Republic of Croatia, around 400 women suffer from uterus cancer annually, and about a hundred die, and currently about 1,000 700 live with the disease. Human Papilloma virus is the main cause of uterus neck cancer, and even 99.7% of cases can prove HPV infection. Statistics say most women who have had uterus cancer have never performed a papal test, or at least haven't done it in the last five years. Of the million and 200 thousand women in the Republic of Croatia, who belong to the most risky group, from 25 to 64 years old, only 418 thousand pass the Pope's test annually. That means two-thirds of women, so two-thirds of women don't practice regular gynaecological controls. The neck cancer of the uterus affects nearly 500 thousand women worldwide each year, of which 80% in developing countries. It is estimated that 70% of sexually active people are exposed to the virus at some point in their lives, and most often in adolescence or in the transition to a mature age. The just state must provide all its people with equal chances, equal conditions and equal starting positions, especially in those areas that make a key difference between a fair and an unjust state. Health care is certainly an area where justice should be ruled and must be available to all. Maniava or no education results in a lack of or no prevention, so when we combine it with an unequal availability in health care, we come to the question why the cancer of the neck of the uterus is one of the most common malignancies in women, in the world of course, and so is ours. In the Republic of Croatia, it is already said, every day a woman is diagnosed with uterus cancer, and every third day a woman dies of this disease. That is why it is important, in fact, to prevent the most important prevention, and it can be prevented by education, which must primarily point to responsible sexual behavior. An educated woman will understand and understand the severity of the HPV infection, so in order to protect her own health, she will self-initiately go to regular gynaecological examinations, at least once a year and do a papal test. Organized breakthrough programs can prevent up to 80% of cancer cases of the neck of the uterus, thus representing the most effective and fairest protection against cancer against the neck of the uterus. The organized trial involves inviting all girls and women every 3 years for a gynaecological examination and obsidisation of the cervix with a cytological examination. It is also said, I will repeat, today no woman has to die of uterus cancer because this disease can be prevented first of all, and if it happens relatively easily is diagnosed and if it is discovered in time it is successfully treated. Prevention includes vaccination of girls. There are different opinions about vaccinations and vaccines in the profession. First of all, because the vaccine itself has not been investigated enough. In the world, there are examples in Spain, and in the United States there are also negative consequences in vaccinated people. In our country there are initiatives of certain cities or counties to vaccinate girls who want to, whose parents agree to this, a certain age, usually 7th grade of primary school. Such initiatives do not have a public health justification because in this way a large amount of money is invested with a minimal or no public-health effect. However, each vaccinated girl will have a reduced risk of developing cervix cancer, but such a way of vaccination will not reduce the incidence of cancer in the population. Therefore, such vaccination should be considered individual. The introduction of HPV vaccines into the mandatory vaccination programme is also considered and it is likely that it will be introduced in some future when the conditions are met. A necessary condition for the introduction of vaccination is the social acceptance of the vaccine i.e. A positive perception of the vaccine in the public that will allow for high vaccine coverage. Vaccination is a medical intervention and decisions should not be taken at a political level but at a professional level. It is also unethical to use a medicinal product to advertise through the media what is not done either for other vaccinations or from the mandatory vaccination programme in the Republic of Croatia. We at the HNS-HSU club believe that for now it is necessary to enable individual vaccination against HPV infection because we think, and most in the profession says that the vaccine is a good thing. But it doesn't amnest anyone's responsibility for behavior. The disease isn't the scariest thing that can happen to a man, and I think the darkness of the soul is the most terrible thing. We have to work hard not to get into a situation where it's easier to vaccinate children than to explain something to them, but to raise them to love themselves, their personality, their soul, and respect their body. Recently, studies have been conducted in schools and a catastrophic ignorance of sexual illness and even a fundamental ignorance of this aspect of life has been shown. We can also compare it to decisions to introduce cameras into schools, the principle is the same. You buy cameras at school, the kids get into a fight in the yard, and they can kill themselves, and the cameras are on camera, and we have video. But the child was beaten up or God forbid it's dead. And what did we do? We have not taught them anything about directing their aggression, nor have we talked to them about what is bothering them. That could happen with the vaccine. Vaccinate and that's enough for you. It's not and it can't be enough. The most important of all is, in our opinion, education, and in addition to that education there is certainly a determination of the National Day of Combating Cancer against the Door of the uterus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69087	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69088	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. They say that all those who have, or the vast majority, who have lung cancer, broncha are smokers. But not all smokers suffer from bronch cancer. This is just an illusion of my predecessor's exposure. Therefore, when we talk about uterine cancer, or the fight against uterus cancer, I wouldn't take the stand completely, I would disagree with the position of the HNS club. Namely, declaring the National Day of Combating uterus Cancer, I don't think that's at all controversial. It's nobody here in the assembly, and the ones they don't have, we're all in. However, the problem is far more delicate and difficult. There has already been a talk here about every day, according to statistics, that a woman in Croatia is suffering from uterus cancer, and every third day one woman dies from the same disease or from complications of that disease, metastases, etc. When we talked and when it was a slow seasonal or swine flu vaccine, the side effects of that vaccine were decided without a problem, it decided to get a million and a half doses of Novartis vaccine as far as I know. And then there was advice not to come out of the house, to drink tea, to take Andol and Aspirin, and I don't know, I wouldn't want to advertise any drugs, agrums, southern fruits, etc., and that it would pass, that it was about the same weight as ordinary. So, pork like H1N1 like this seasonal flu and that actually the mortality and incidence of mortality and mortality is about the same as any other flu with groups that are otherwise burdened with other diseases that are associated with the flu, so diabetes, hypertension and a series of other diseases. Now, the question is, and I've been saying all this because of that vaccination of 13, 14, girls and so forth. Valuability and value. Mrs. Hursa herself said it was proven that the incidence was lower, the incidence of uterus cancer was lower in vaccinated patients. Well, now what do you do? You said that the availability of vaccine kits is important, as well as education, as well as counselling and school education in this sense, so sexual, sexual behavior. It's been proven by various polls that it's quite low in the level of that knowledge. Therefore, the availability of the vaccine against HPV virus, so the Human Papilloma virus should be available to girls of life of the beginning of sexual maturity to all. When we look at what the Republic of Croatia is giving out money, where they're all going, without talking about those private pockets, bags and bags and then I think that even though we're going to individual access to the wishes of a girl's parents first, because they're underage, we need to allow for free vaccination of such persons. It doesn't mean that no one is amnesting anyone of any behavior, that doesn't mean that they don't have to show in schools, that parents don't have to point out, that they don't have to advise. All those other prevention measures remain. But if it's proven that the incidence is lower, then what's the use of the vaccine? I have information I think it was in the press somewhere, that the City of Zagreb has provided a free vaccine. Now 15 years ago, the City of Zagreb also provided free textbooks for children, and unlike the rest of Croatia. Are we available to all of us? Are we equal? What does the Constitution tell us about that? I think this country has to find money and nothing is expensive if we know that 120 to 150 women die annually from uterus cancer, and if you ask the relatives of those women, how much would they pay for that woman to get better. It's an immeasurable sum. For the Republic of Croatia, for the health care of Croatia, for all of us here, it shouldn't be at all resilient. That's why I said this was one proposal for a decision of a declarative nature. My God, we're going to declare National Cancer Day, but what do you do, what do you do specifically? I plead with this pay phone to consider also at the Ministry of Health, to consider also at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute when it has already been proven quite safely and professionally at professional levels, in countries that are already doing so like Spain, such as the United States, etc. to allow free vaccination against Human Papilloma virus. If we're going to maintain individual access then let's keep it an individual approach. We don't have to declare it mandatory, but we need to think about it. And further remains what's for now prevention and review, the PAPA test and everything else, that's all that's already been diagnosed, actually one screen test that determines whether someone has something, eats suspiciously, isn't, in which degree, etc. In any case, both personally and as a doctor and as a club of HDSSB will support this proposal, but here we also give a topic of thought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69089	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69090	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Grubisic, who said it was undoubtedly proven that the vaccine was successful in the fight against occipital cancer, because there are also studies that prove exactly the opposite. And as long as there are certain doubts about the usefulness of this vaccine, in accordance with the precautionary principle, public health actions should not be carried out that recommend this form of prevention in such a young population. It should also be pointed out that the vaccine against HPV is relatively brief and that any such form of research that says that the smaller proportion of uterus cancer in girls or girls who are being vaccinated, I think the sample is quite unreliable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69091	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Bianca Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69092	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we have heard today from colleagues here in the Assembly that malignant diseases are one of today's greatest health problems. In a world of cancer, about 11 million people a year die from cancer, 7 million of which die. Malignant disease does not choose the target, does not choose gender, national race or age. And given that the incidence and mortality of malignant diseases has increased in recent years, and in order to raise awareness of these diseases, here and here in the Croatian Parliament is the resolution on malignant tumours. On the question of colleagues after this national day is declared he means it declared, although I think it is a big step in the fight against this disease, the question of what should be done next. So here I am going to inform him that the Ministry of Health and Social Care has already started educational actions in cooperation with various NGOs and in order to prevent the cancer of the neck of the womb. The Ministry of Health also established two committees for primary and secondary prevention of uterus cancer which works on projects of education of the professional public, parents of children, vaccinations and early detection of this malignant disease. In line with the early discovery programme for the neck cancer that the government adopted last year, the programme includes all women in Croatia aged 25 to 64 and is under way a pilot project currently being implemented in Rijeka and ended in the City of Zagreb. The main task of all these actions is to help women who are suffering from uterus cancer, but also to raise awareness in society that through responsible sexual behavior, education and protection against HPV infections that cause the neck cancer of the uterus to regular examinations, means women herself to be protected from this disease. Some of the data that the senior colleagues mentioned, but it's not intrusive to repeat. In terms of global cancer, the neck cancer of the uterus is the second most common cancer of women and the third cause of female cancer mortality. The first is breast cancer from which women most often die. And in the world almost dies about 300 thousand a year from this disease. In Croatia, every third day a woman dies of uterus cancer, in Europe every 18 minutes, and in the world every two minutes of this disease. No type of cancer has such a strong connection to the cause as in this case the human papilloma virus. It's passed on by men, sick, and dying from it by women. HPV infection is very common among sexually active people and is mainly transmitted during sexual intercourse. It can be transmitted by direct contact from person to person, not only during intercourse. Every other sexually active person is infected with HPV. About 60% of sexually active men and women have been infected in Croatia. The death of uterus neck cancer is 50%. The neck cancer of the uterus can be detected in time for regular examinations, care for your own health, and responsible sexual behavior. The neck cancer of the uterus is the most serious complication of HPV infection. There are no signs of disease, no symptoms, and most of the infected people are usually not aware of it until they come in defeating the findings. Most HPV infections are revealed only with abnormal Papal test findings, which is actually here again saying that you should really work on the education related to this disease. In view of all the above, I am extremely pleased that we have this on the agenda today, I am extremely glad that cancer is not only a woman's disease because it's someone's mother, someone's wife, someone's sister, a colleague from work, a friend. And in the fight against these diseases, we really need to be unique and continue to believe that the Ministry of Health, together with NGOs, the Cancer League, the Cancer Association and others, will continue this complete action and educate further women so that as little women die from this disease as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69093	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69094	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, it is a truly commendable initiative of the Health and Social Care Committee that needs to be supported, and I personally support it without any remainder because, by respecting the World Health Organization guidelines, we join a number of European countries in the fight for greater awareness of women about the need to care for their own health in the fight for a smaller number of patients, and then, consequently, for less mortality. In Croatia, something about this problem has been going on for years, let's say a humanitarian action called Mimosis Day, which has grown, I would say, into a very valuable, important campaign. It started in Zagreb, has spread throughout Croatia, to a campaign that was intended and I think it is in a way that is well and achieved, the aim of education and informing citizens that through responsible sexual behaviour and education and vaccinations, and to promote protection against sexually transmitted diseases. This decision is good and should be supported for a number of reasons, the reasons my predecessors mentioned. I would bring them down to four basics, which is 1. Too many women die, and it shouldn't be, 2. More and more women get sick, and it shouldn't be like that, 3. This is really a cancer as we heard which can be prevented by vaccination against its cause and 4th disease can finally be effectively prevented by responsible sexual behaviour and vaccine that has been used in Croatia for several years. So with absolute support for this decision, I would, of course, open up some topics in good faith. Sometimes we witness situations where we see very, very high-quality health, preventive programs happening at local or regional level, counselling is being opened, health teams are being formed with the aim of increasing health care standards. So the City of Zagreb and the City of Rijeka and some other environments were pioneers in some programs, programs that have come into life and become national protection programmes. So, in my county we started with early discovery of breast cancer in women as early as 2006, he became a National Programme after a few years. So we started with the early detection program of colon cancer, so fortunately it became the National Program. Even with this programme of early detection of uterine cancer we started in the Primorje-Gorski County, I have to admit in Zagreb they started the programme a year before. So I want to say that in some areas, in Zagreb, in Rijeka and some others there was hearing, but there was also money, so awareness of a particular problem but there was money that allowed certain programs to be implemented that saved hundreds of lives. But we have to ask ourselves what's wrong with the other environments, so what about the environments that have money but aren't conscious enough about this problem or what if it's the other way around, if they don't have the money. So, what I'm saying is that national strategies and national programmes and resolutions, everything we bring in, what we're talking about here, must have secured financial resources in the state budget. Perhaps not entirely, but at least partially they must be secured in the state budget in order to satisfy the principle of availability of healthcare as category by the Constitution guaranteed to every citizen of this country. And we have a situation today, so like I said in some areas it's come to life, it's because of awareness, which is because of money. But what about some smaller environments? What about environments where there's not enough financial resources to do that. And on the trail of what his colleague Grubisic said, so this initiative is indeed commendable. However, if it does not live in that right, a concrete sense, which means providing financial resources, that is, demagogy. Oh, no? I believe that this will not have that destiny and that the ministry will therefore provide all that is necessary to implement the programme in the middle. I'm sorry I have to admit we don't see anyone from the Department of Health. Somehow it would be a guarantee to me or I would believe more that the ministry would seriously support this initiative of the Health and Social Care Committee. I would like to mention something else that has started working in some areas, which has produced very good results and it would also be very good to live at national level as something to boast that it is a national programme and that the ministry is launching an initiative to have so-called local environments. Youth centers, open-door counseling centres. I can tell you that it works very well in my county, that it's a centre with a gynecological clinic for young people in principle... So friendly young people, without a manual, without waiting, without the stigmatisation of young people can come, get any kind of advice, review, and that is ultimately a suggestion or guidance from the World Health Organization. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think it would be very good if the ministry in this regard launched an initiative at local and regional levels. And finally something that, which I think is very important and in direct connection with this topic that so far seems to me no one has bothered me, so I'm going to have a very short time with a few sentences, and that's health education. Medical education in schools. I don't think it's a good idea for a health care program to be so much at a public hearing. We often know here to criticize the representatives of the ministries, to say the law you didn't give for public debate, so why, the profession doesn't ask, and here I think we have one other extreme, and that's a public debate that lasts, I don't even know how many five, six, seven years, and that's not good. The result is tension between religious and secular discourse, which is not good. Because there's absolutely a need for health care, and we're all aware of that. And it seems to me that it's simply not a question of the world's horizon and it can't be a question of the world's horizon. We must give young people what we consider to be irrefutable facts based on science. So it's not a thing of the world. To give young people facts through health care, facts that are irrefutable and scientific evidence established. And then young people decide what kind of light they're going to live with. So I appeal here, indeed, to appeal to those who are responsible and who should worry about introducing health education to schools as soon as possible. I think it's a necessity, and I believe we're all aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69095	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69096	Thank you, Vice President. I, like all my previous predecessors and predecessors, will also support this commendable decision, because it is certain that we must do absolutely everything in our power to successfully fight against malignant tumors and so on and cancer of the cervix. Certainly, the marking of this day certainly contributes to education of this disease, and that good information is crucial and I would say the first step in a successful fight with this disease. However, a very important step for a successful fight with this disease is also the sexual education mentioned shortly before by my colleague Romana Jerkovic, and because responsible sexual behavior, using contraceptives, using condoms, and the like can certainly be more responsible for getting into that species, means this form of life that is very interesting for all young people. This raises the question why we still do not have a systematic implementation of modern science rather than religious or moral principles based on sexual education in schools. And I mean, I really agree with Roman that this debate is about, so the shape or appearance of this sexual education is too long, it takes too long, and it's causing damage to our entire society. When it comes to prevention, different variations of prevention need to be distinguished. It is necessary for women to have regular gynecological control and to perform PA tests on a regular basis. This should certainly be supported and promoted through public-health campaigns and there is absolutely nothing disputed. But the thing isn't that simple when it comes to vaccineing girls with a vaccine against HPV virus. The fact is that such vaccination is voluntary but it is wrong to carry out public health campaigns for vaccines whose safety has not yet been fully demonstrated. Many relevant scientific data suggest that there are possible risks to the health of vaccinated girls and as long as the principle of precautionaryness of a state institution such as the Ministry of Health and such as the Croatian Institute of Public Health should not publicly recommend such vaccination to such a young population. It is unclear why it is almost never mentioned in the speech on the prevention of uterus cancer, which is treatment of HPV virus with natural interferon, which has proved to be very successful in international and Croatian clinical studies and is significantly less risky and invasive than the vaccine of girls, means this vaccine against HPV virus. I don't want this commendable action to turn into something that certainly none of us would want, which is a promotion of the interests of multinational pharmaceutical companies and vaccines whose quality and efficiency has not yet been proven.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69097	Thank you. Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69098	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted to take part in this debate briefly and to support, of course, this initiative of the Health and Social Care Committee. The only thing I'd like to say at first is, this is not just a woman's question, this is an important question, and I see in the interest that only MPs appear, and a few doctors, which means that usually only when some political issues arise, and I think that this is a very important project and that it is very important in the long term, as we talked about lifelong learning this morning, so now we're talking about this project to fight this malignant disease, and also about health education in schools that I would also like to support that this debate finally ends as counterpart Jerkovic said. So far, we are the same almost every third Saturday of the day of mimosis, and all within the European week of the fight against uterus cancer, and this project has come to life in the Republic of Croatia, and I think it is good for the Croatian Parliament to support it and declare it on the national day of the battle against the cancer of the uterus. Data are statistically devastating, I have to tell you, very cold-bloodedly today we say them here, but defeating data and something we have to do all together, not only in Croatia, but obviously in the world, if it says data and projections that by 2030 there will be 12 million people with cancer at all, then that data is terrible, and given that science and science, medicine, technology, bearing in mind all this expensive, then man can't ask himself, and he doesn't answer this problem. And when we come to the problem of this human papilloma virus, then it's also an amazing fact that in the world of 1.4 million women suffer from this disease, that 250 thousand die, that they are diagnosed by half a million, I think it's terrible data. What I would like to say here only briefly from experience at local level, and we have been introduced to Dubrovnik, or left the funds in the budget for this test vaccination. In the end, we realized, first of all, that this vaccination was not safe at all and that it was his question, that its effects were questionable, and then we realized that it was such a small response, we were predicting students from 2008, students of the 7th and 8th grade of primary school. It was such a small response, and people actually responded with indifference, that we put all our efforts into education later, and I don't think there can be vaccinations before education is made, we've done various stands, etc. But we did have an example recently, of a film if you watched it last year, it seems to me that this film was shown at the time of this week 2008, where the women who had already been ill, or some who had even been treated courageously witnessed the disease. I think maybe it's one of the best examples of how you can actually get closer to the severity and harmfulness of that disease, I think that's the only way we can actually encourage this rest of the women to do the papal test. We said most of the Pope's women didn't do it, that 418 thousand in Croatia did it, and there's a much larger population of women in Croatia, and I'm sure we all have to work together, but above all, the school. So I think that this is not only declarative, that it is good for the Croatian Parliament to stand behind this initiative, and that we must work together to enlighten the young population and to talk about all possible forms of harmfulness of such approach and sexual education, but of course when it comes to health education that I think it must be definitely established on scientific facts and that everyone has the right to choose based on these scientific facts. In any case, it is obvious that this vaccination that we are talking about today I think that until so far as it is not recommended by the World Health Organization, and it has not confirmed that it is what, that it is only clear, that we must not approach it so easily, that it is much more important education, that there are far more important surveys, that it is a much more important approach and conversation with young girls and I hope that, since research is still unreliable, and that the effects are still uncertain, that we should give all the emphasis on education and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69099	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to commend all my colleagues from the Committee on Health and Social Care, your initiative is absolutely justified and undermining the initiative. With today's debate, we must not put the point on and on about this story, but only open a debate on this very important topic. You said nicely in the opening statement that no woman should die from this disease. Unfortunately it's not like that, every third day you said you were dying one woman. The conclusion is which, then? If we were ineffective in implementing measures to prevent the occurrence of this disease or when it appears to prevent... The outcome of the disease. [[You don't understand.]] So that must be clear, and I think we all agree on that conclusion here. I'm a microbiologist by profession, and I wouldn't dare sign some brave statements I've heard here today, but at least we'd have to agree as much as possible, because I'm undermining you've launched the initiative. What do we need to say, perhaps, on which we should insist in the future? We talked about education, we heard that we're absolutely disabled, that we don't have sexual education in our schools, that girls in primary schools, in high schools know little about sexually transmitted diseases, guys also, they carry these diseases. We must therefore do much more here than we have done so far. A vaccine, yes or no? Antivirus agents, yes or no? I don't know what else we can do, regular checks, how often? What tests to make diagnostics, that's all we need to discuss, but not us here. Who's missing today? Today, we are missing the health minister and the minister of education sitting in a chair with his colleague Shucker. We miss them. They're absolutely missing. They must tell us what they will do in the next 2, 3, 5, 10 years to make it clear about these diseases, especially malignancies, that they approach more systematically in the programmes for primary and secondary schools. If we don't already have sexual education, it's not clear to me that, in the course of biology classes, 90 minutes can't be devoted to this group of diseases. I don't get it. If it's about vaccines, it's not clear to me that we can't be presented pro and vice versa so we can work out what and how. You know even if there are certain negative phenomena I'll just try to remember you in Yugoslavia when the outbreak of the great goddess broke out we were vaccinated. That was the position of the Minister of Health at the time. In Great Britain, which has much more often imported the great goddesses, they have never done so because they believed that their health care would quickly be recognized, quickly fenced and implemented by all measures preventive of the outbreak. They were aware that they would lose 1, 2, 5, 7 citizens, but we lost 70 of them through whatever complications after the vaccine, you understand. Therefore, it was only necessary to withdraw rationally for and against one, the other, the third group of measures. So here and here, let's not outwit our colleagues and colleagues. Let us not convince one another that these or those measures are better or worse. We must leave that to the profession, so I repeat, we are missing one and another minister today, and I would suggest that you invite your colleagues to the board. Your initiative is excellent, go one more step further and commit them to make up some kind of plan with which we will actually implement measures to prevent disease or flight outcomes if the disease occurs. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69101	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69102	In terms of what you've been saying, I still think no matter what I approve of making a decision like this, but that it's a bit of a hypocritical thing to say on our part, or to declare one day as the Day of Combating the Cancer Door of the uterus when you agree you'll agree here everyone's been talking about how missing this promised sexual education, sexual education, the sexual education of children, is self-juvenile youth in schools. First of all, from the earliest age. No doubt, here is what all scientists now confirm, that precisely the causes of not only this disease, therefore the most difficult and deadly if not discovered in time, but also many infectious diseases in women are brought precisely by inadequate and unprotected sexual relations of promiscuity, which all ultimately needs to be taught by the youth of the earliest age. So it's lagging out. And then we always start with the consequences. All of you here, there are plenty of doctors in the House, where their basic principle is primarily not to harm, it is first, and then prevent better than treat. I think it's really a shame in the 21st century that we don't have such an adequate, more adequate education that we know that back in the 20 and 30 years to at least through biology classes as much as educated youth about the responsibility of engaging in sexual relations. I would just like to point out, since it makes women sick that it is also a form of sexual discrimination because it is a male disease that surely in time the government has done something to introduce sexual education from the earliest age in schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69103	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69104	I didn't want to use such a strong expression as hypocrisy, but I understand what you wanted to say. In fact, I didn't want to talk about the Word, Zagreb and some examples where we do something so it wouldn't be an alibi if we didn't have to do much, much more. That's where I agree with you. Therefore, I would not amnesty men, they carry sexually transmitted diseases. They must therefore absolutely know that responsibility is on them and that is a large part of the responsibility, but there is no clear element of education.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69105	I didn't hear from my colleague Ingrid because it was in a low-wipe flight below the frequency. Representative for the Proposer, Ms. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to express my regrets to the board if you've come to realize that our committee's proposal is hypocritical. It's really a harsh word and rough and generally I don't think she belongs here. In fact, all the members of the Health Committee unanimously and supported and I am really glad that you too have supported our committee’s proposal in your discussions. We really want to make women aware of the need to care for their own health, but above all education, knowledge and information. There was more talk here about the vaccine than about that education, knowledge and information about the problem of uterus neck cancer. The vaccine is second, and the screening, i.e. the screening is third already when you have this manifest disease that does not have symptoms. The vaccine problem is great, I'm an infectious, and believe me, I don't know, I think we should think about it very carefully right now. I do not need to be guided, as an infectologist, by these actions of public vaccination from one county and another rather than above all by the profession, i.e. epidemiologists and infectologists, virologists. There are a large number of HPV viruses, over 150 which can be included, and more than one not included in the disease itself, and the vaccine is a 4-valent and 2-valent vaccine. So with one, you have four viruses from two other viruses that occur most often. Today, it has already been proven that many of these viruses that are not in the vaccine are included in the carcinoma of the neck of the uterus. So first of all responsible sexual behavior, education, and learning about the disease itself. The vaccine should not be discarded because indeed of 90% of the type 16, 18 was found in the uterus neck cancer but other viruses were also found in the genome that may also affect the carcinoma of the uterus neck. So here's what I believe is that we will really regain consciousness and act with our awareness to reduce the incidence and mortality of uterine neck cancer. Let this be another incentive for us all to do more because indeed no woman today should die of uterine cancer. Thank you. I apologize, the Minister of Forgiveness has been appointed here, Vice-President, but they have been representatives of the ministry on our committee and have indeed supported this action by discussing all other actions on the creation of a national action programme similar to action against breast cancer and other public health actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69107	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Combating uterus Cancer. In accordance with the opinion of the Government and the Assembly Working Body, the Proposer of the Committee on Health and Social Care, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for this decision shall be adopted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? It finds that with 98 votes for, 1 abstention, the decision was made.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69110	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honored ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to present in the next few minutes and say a few words about the Home Secretary's report on police affairs for 2009. I hope you're satisfied with the written report you received in the Assembly materials. Although it has been a long time since then but I'm sure you've looked at it again to restore the numbers shown since delivery it's been quite a while. Since it is a very comprehensive and comprehensive review of all security indicators in the Republic of Croatia for 2009 and indicators of police activities in the same period shown on almost 170 pages. Given the comprehensiveness and scope of the report, I will not comment on it in detail and elaborate on whether some statistical indicators are detailed and there is no need to repeat them again, but I will only give you a brief summary of the most significant safety indicators, and then I will give my review of the security situation in 2009. Although I repeat, it's been a long time, so it's hard to remember some of the most important security events that happened a year and a few days ago. In 2009, there was a decline in all occurrences and events affecting safety, and these crimes were reported by 2.3%, traffic accidents by 5.8%, traffic violations by 8.6%, public order and peace violations by 2.5% of other violations by 0.2%, illegal crossings by 14%, fires and explosions by 5.8%, accidents by 4.9%, suicides by 3.5%, while the only increase of 11.6% in border violations was recorded. As a result of the uncertainty in 2009, a thousand 839 people were killed, 5 thousand 896 were seriously injured, and minor injuries were sustained by 20 thousand 927 people, while the total material damage recorded in the MUP information system amounted to 3 billion 723 million kuna. Of the 73,000 497 crimes for which the procedure is initiated under official duty, 48 thousand 234 or 49.9% were resolved. In 2009, the perpetrators of a thousand 708 crimes brought in earlier years were found at 68% of the total resolution coefficient for 2009. The general structure of criminality for which the procedure is initiated under official duty is the highest crime of almost 80%, then drug crime and economic crime by 9%, organised crime 1%, terrorism and extreme violence 0.2%, war crimes 0.02% and traffic crime 3% of the total criminal offences reported. During 2009, 6 000 583 economic crimes were reported, which is 1.6% less than in 2008 but material damage was found during criminal research by 81.7% and amounted to a billion 983 million kuna, suggesting that complex capital offences were investigated and processed which caused the company to suffer massive material damage. In processing crimes from economic crime, police focused on curbing corruption, financial investigations and money laundering, computer crime and intellectual property, curbing the gray economy, law enforcement, legal liability, and international activities and obligations. As for corruption control, 339 corruption crimes have been reported, which is 14.8% less than the previous year. Corruption crimes account for 5.1% of economic crime. However, regardless of the total number of criminal offences reported, it is quite clear that they are capital items such as in the previous years or were not or were significantly less. 753 crimes from the Department of Organized Crimes' work have been reported, down 29% compared to that type of crime in 2008. Organized crime accounts for 1% of total crime. The reduction in the number of criminal offences detected and reported in the jurisdiction of the Department of Organized Crime has, among other things, been the result of several successful joint international investigations conducted during 2007 and 2008 which resulted in the implementation and completion of a number of significant and complex criminal trials aimed at detecting and processing criminal offences prepared, planned or committed in the group or criminal organisation, as well as criminal proceedings of a number of major and organised criminal groups dealing with different forms of transnational organised crime, which ultimately resulted in the interception of important smuggling channels, etc. Balkan routes leading through the Republic of Croatia and their direction towards neighbouring countries, the newly admitted EU member states. In the area of organised crime, the most illegal transfer of persons across the state border, counterfeiting of money, extortion, illegal charges, subjugation, human trafficking, etc. Seven thousand 63 crimes have been reported abuse of intoxicating drugs, down by 10.4% compared to 2008. 5019 persons have been reported for the offences committed. Of the overall offences reported, the abuse of intoxicating drugs 2373 crimes or 33.6% refers to qualified phenomenal forms: resale, production, the ability to use drugs. The share of serious crimes is greater than 30% compared to 2008 in total crime has been achieved better by carrying out more complex criminal research, i.e. by directing specialised officials to more qualified forms of these crimes. This method of work resulted in significant drug confiscation in the Republic of Croatia and abroad resulting in the arrest of more significant members of criminal groups or individuals engaged in quality-related smuggling and drug abuse. The most serious crimes of murder, rape, serious physical injury or robbery are included in the general criminal group, but also the most numerous crimes of heavy theft and theft, so that the share of general crime in total crime is 79.6%. These crimes were reported to be 55779 which is 0.6% higher than the previous year. The crimes against life and the body are down 7.3%. Of the 49 reported murders, 47 or 95.9% were resolved. A single 2008 murder was also resolved in the Zagrebačka PU. Compared to the previous year of murders, it's less by 18 or 26.9% than we consider to be an extremely good indicator. However, it is alarming that out of the 49 murders in 23 murders, women were mostly killed because of unsettled family relations and the consequences of domestic violence. That's what happened in the case of 21 murders. Among other things, stronger inter-resor cooperation has been initiated because of this fact and inter-resorial cooperation is under way and inter-resor teams are being formed at local level to deal with individual cases of domestic violence and to find the best possible solutions on any particular case. We had these activities in 2010, but they will continue in 2011 and more than once have the competent ministers met during last year to raise the effectiveness of police work, but also preventative actions in countering this most difficult form of serious violence. The crimes of children and minors have been reduced by 25.2%. Positively, a 20% decline in the number of children of the perpetrators was also reported. According to the structure of the crimes committed, it is evident that underage perpetrators continue to benefit most from property delinquencies. They were committed by 2855 which accounts for 66.8% in the total number of crimes committed by minors. The minors are perpetrators of 615 crimes with characteristics of violence and against life and body, 130 muggings, 17 muggings, 92 serious bodily injuries, 399 bodily injuries, 1 serious murder in an attempt. When it comes to the abuse of intoxicating drugs, minors committed 300 crimes, which is an increase of 5.6% compared to 2008. Although the data suggest that in 2009 there were 11% fewer crimes with elements of violence committed by children and minors, severe phenomena and certain brutal cases show that this issue must be dealt with intensively. And I would also point out, since this report for 2009, that during 2010 the Ministry of Interior paid particular attention to violence among young people, as well as to violence against women, and that it is in the focus of all services of the Ministry of the Interior, but also other competent ministries, institutions and all who can contribute to the prevention and prevention of these crimes. The consequences of road traffic endangerment have a significant impact on the overall state of public security. Social losses due to traffic accidents today are estimated at around 2% of gross social product amounts to more than one-year budget share of the MUP. There are 70 to 80 thousand traffic accidents on the roads of Croatia. On the Croatian roads in 2009, 12.4 people died on 100 thousand people, which, unlike in 2008, when there were 15 fatalities per 100,000 inhabitants, felt better and this trend continued last 2010 and we expect that this year they could come to a target number of 10 dead people per 100,000 population, bringing statistics in the European Union member states of 7 people killed per 100,000. The number of deaths in traffic accidents in the Republic of Croatia was 548 or 116 less than in 2008 and at the level of 1965 when traffic was far less frequent, much fewer participants, much fewer vehicles, slower vehicles, so all of these figures indicate that in 2009 it was indeed a valuable improvement in increasing safety and what is most important, in reducing the number of road users killed. It should be noted that these reductions have been achieved under the conditions of a constant increase in traffic, as I said, and we compare by number to '65. Although all other circumstances are incomparable from 2009 to 1965. The sense of security in society and respect for public order is very important in every country. Although citizens always expect a better state of public order and the peace of pictures of Croatia in the international public in this area is satisfactory. This is confirmed by the interest of foreign guests who come each year to spend an annual vacation in Croatia, and this general impression of security is certainly one of Croatia's comparative advantages with natural beauty that are unequivocal. In 2009, 93534 violations were recorded under all regulations governing the issue of public order and peace. Because of the problem of hooliganism related to sports competitions, I'm going to have little to do with the data from that general criminality segment. In violation of the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Disruption in Sport Competitions, the provisions of the Law on Infringements against Public Order and Peace and the Law on Public Assemblys and Others related to... The conduct of the 2009 sports competitions brought together 1412 people, of whom 1509 people were charged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 86 rightful safeguards have been issued to ban the presence of certain sports competitions. However, since the illegal behaviour with the elements of violence continued and during 2010 you also had a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the prevention of riots in sport competitions. We expect that a second reading will come soon and that after the law is passed we will be even more effective in the fight against hooliganism in sports competitions. Security, protection and control of the state border is a key issue of every modern and independent state, and I would say one of the requirements that the European Union has put before us as a measure of effectiveness. Due to its geopolitical position and the specific form of state territory, state border surveillance requires a specific and specific approach. During 2009, border police for 21594 foreign nationals found that they did not meet the conditions for entry and stay in the Republic of Croatia by refusing to enter it. The border police discovered 208 forged documents and 88 other people's documents, down by 29.4% compared to 2008. The counterfeit and foreign documents were mostly used by citizens of Kosovo 71 persons, Serbia 66, Bosnia and Herzegovina 44, Turkey 37 and Croatian citizens 27. It is also important to note here that the IDP fulfils all the obligations foreseen by the Schengen Action Plan and that the planned dynamics also strengthen the human and material resources of the border police. It has been pointed out more than once that the measure of police work must not only be statistical indicators from its own production but also from citizens' views and attitudes. Because in addition to objective security, the important aspect is the subjective security of citizens in particular and their perception of their own security in society. In this regard, for the first time in Croatia, an initiative by the MUP, and in collaboration with the UN Development Programme in mid-2009, a major national survey on the perception of the security of citizens, police behaviour, and co-operation between police and local communities has been carried out. The survey meets all scientific criteria and covers a representative sample for the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia and each county, individually with four and a half thousand subjects. In short, the results of research published on the website of the Ministry of the Interior show a high sense of security for citizens and a high level of confidence in the Croatian police. In fact, just over half of the citizens estimate the amount of crime and the amount of disturbance of public order in their place of residence. An even smaller percentage of respondents estimate the amount of risk to become victims of a crime. In fact, 93% of citizens feel safe when they're alone at night and in their apartment, and 86% feel safe when they move around the neighborhood by themselves at night. I present this information in order to complete the security picture you received through previously presented safety indicators, and for the first time, we can also assess from independent subjective sources. Here's the most important thing I've found necessary is to point out about this report, which, as I said, was submitted to 170 pages. This 2009 report, I would only say that good safety indicators continued in 2010 and certainly is not without reason why all indicators of the upcoming tourist season show that Croatia will certainly be one of the top destinations among others and because of the general state of security. Even foreign tour operators recommend the Republic of Croatia as a safe destination and I hope that even in the next debate they will not try to create a different and wrong picture. If foreigners already have such a picture about us it would not be good for some of the party interests to try to devalue one I would say good, solid security situation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69111	Thank you. Does the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security want a representative? Yeah. The chairman of the board, Honorary Representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69112	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the motionors, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the 2009 report of the Minister of the Interior on police affairs delivered on 13 March 2010 at the 45th meeting of the Committee on 28 April 2010. Article 63 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed report as a parent working body. The applicant's representative initially explained the report in question and assessed that the police had fulfilled their tasks in 2009 and achieved the main objective, i.e. to maintain a high level of public security, order and peace. In addition to the main objectives of detecting and curbing crime with special emphasis on corruption and organised crime, drug abuse, juvenile crime, domestic violence, violence in sports competitions. It has worked intensively to strengthen international police cooperation and the preparation of a police organisation for full integration into the security systems of the European Union. The motionr noted that in 2009, 108,000 364 crimes were recorded, of which 73497 crimes were committed by official duty, and 48234 were resolved, which is 49.9%. Explained that the crime rate was calculated with all criminal acts, so it amounts to 2 thousand 442 crimes on 100,000 inhabitants. The crime rate for which the procedure under official duty was initiated is 1656 crimes on 100,000 residents, which says the Republic of Croatia is a safe country. The promoter said an increase in economic crime has been observed. But he explained it was because of projects launched to curb economic crime. Finally, the promoter referred to the necessary addition and amendment of the Penal Code, the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs in Sports Competitions, and the violence between young people and violence in sport competitions. The principle debate highlighted the importance of citizens' perception of their sense of security related to professionalisation, police depolitisation. Controversies were raised in the debate. On the one hand, it is noted that police are not depolitised, as it is visible because certain crimes are processed only after they have occurred, or after political changes. On the other hand, it was noted that the report made it clear how professionalisation and technological progress were made, and the transformation of police from a repressive apparatus to a citizen service is evident. It also praised the decline in the number of murders and deaths in traffic. But what is worrying, which is still to be worked on, is a dark area of crime, that is, organised economic corruption, drug abuse, and domestic violence. It has been concluded that future reports explain the rejected criminal charges, explain the measures of secret data collection as well as the overall analysis related to work with the USKOK. It also drew attention to the report on the accession process to the European Union, and regarding the establishment of the Schengen border, as this will be a major financial item in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, it drew attention to how further professionalisation of police depoliticisation should be approached, and the first step must be to strengthen the position of chief police director in a way that has the position as head of security intelligence agencies. After the debate was held, the committee decided, by voting 7 votes for, 1 vote against, 1 abstention, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion on the adoption of the Home Affairs Minister's report on police affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69113	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69114	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The interior minister's report on police performance refers to 2009. The report through statistics speaks of police actions in all areas of crime, as well as the effectiveness and effectiveness of the police during that period. Since he's also the secretary of state and the board president that they've given certain indicators, I'm only going to indicate what I think is most important. On crime in 2009, 108,000 364 crimes were reported, of which 73,000 497 were conducted on official duty. For 13 thousand 782 crimes, the procedure has not been initiated due to the absence of the proposal, and for 21 thousand and 085 crimes, the case is initiated by a private suit damaged. Of the 73,000 497 crimes for which the procedure is initiated under official duty, 48 thousand 234 or 49.9% were resolved. Compared to 2008, all reported offences are down 2.3%. The structure of crime for which the procedure is initiated by official duty is the general criminality of 56 thousand and 779 crimes, drug crime 77 thousand and 63 crimes, economic crime 6 thousand 583 crimes, organised crime 753 crimes, terrorism and extreme violence 115 crimes, war crimes 18 crimes, and traffic crime 2 thousand 186 crimes. During 2009, 6.000 583 economic crimes were reported. Also reported are 339 corruption crimes, which is 14.8% less than the previous year. Nine cases of money laundering have also been reported. The most common forms of the grey economy are the sale of goods on black, it is recorded in this report, illegal employment, export, import and transport documents, illegal exploitation of ore goods, non-recording of business activities in business books, and other forms of avoidance of payment of public duties. It's taxes, customs and contributions. There have been 836 crimes reported from this domain. On organised crime, 753 crimes were reported, down by 29% compared to that type of crime in 2008. In the downfall, crimes of illegal transfer of persons in 2009, across the state border, 36%, counterfeiting of money by 54%, trafficking in human beings and slavery by 37%, avoiding customs supervision by 68.6%, extortion by 11.1%. In terms of drug crime, 7,000 and 63 crimes of drug abuse have been reported, and 5 thousand and 19 people have been reported for crimes committed. In terms of general crime, the most serious crimes involved are murder, rape, serious physical injury, and robbery, but also among them the most serious crimes, which are represented in total by 79.6%. These crimes were reported to be 56 thousand 779, which is 0.6% higher than in 2008. The crimes against life and the body are down 7.3%, out of 49 reported murders, 47 were resolved. One murder was resolved in 2008, so the resolution coefficient is 98%. During that period, two murders remained unsolved. There were 153 attempted murders, 5 of which remained unsolved. The resolution coefficient is 96.7%. 76 rapes have been reported, 71 of which have been resolved. Rapes are down by 29%. All 14 reported attempted rape has been resolved. Major thefts, as I have already said, are the most numerous crimes, and in the last five years they have been constantly falling. By this time in 2009, when there were 18 thousand 779, the coefficient of resolution of heavy theft was 31.7%, a thousand 328 were reported, of which 534 were resolved during this period. As for the criminal protection of children and minors, 4000 and 811 crimes were recorded, which is 7.5% less than in 2008. On road safety from 2008 there is a positive trend, i.e. a reduction in the total number of traffic accidents by 3108 or 5.8%. As far as the 2009 public order is concerned, 93 000 and 534 violations have been recorded under all regulations governing matters of public order and peace. Violations are down by 0.9%. Of this, there are 27 thousand 902 violations under the Law on Public Order and Peace violations involving 39,000 and 755 perpetrators. Public gatherings in the area were held at 18,000 727 public gatherings, out of which 172 public gatherings occurred by disrupting public order and peace or by committing criminal acts. As for security at the state border, police officers for the control of cross-border crime have handled 2,649 crimes and 1,527 violations. 2 864 cases of goods and human trafficking, of course, and intoxicating drugs, cigarettes, weapons, ammunition, explosives, vehicles, etc. have also been reported at the state border. Most of the cases of smuggling were discovered at border crossings, 2,562 while other cases were discovered at the green border. One piece of information that says enough is that 451 thousand and 697 boxes of cigarettes have been taken away mostly at the entrance to the Republic of Serbia and BiH. It is important to say that 3,410 people participated in the smuggling of goods and people. There have also been 858 cases of drug trafficking, and more than 164kg of drugs have been seized. It's also good information that in 2009 there are 5.7% less fires. Material damage is lower by 52.1%. But it's also less burnt surface by 52%. Unfortunately, 28 people died in the fires, but 28% less fatal in the fires compared to 2008. As for accidents and suicides in 2009 the accident was less by 4.9%, 209 people died, however 14% lower than in 2008. Severely injured persons in accidents are lower by 9.8% and are easily injured by 15.2%. Suicides are less than 3.5%. During 2009, 275 attacks against police officers were also reported, which is more than 22 attacks compared to 2008. In those attacks, 198 police officers were injured, unfortunately 8 of whom were seriously injured, and 1 policeman lost his life in the service. One interesting data in 2009 police officers used the means of coercion in 3,684 cases, which is 76% more than in 2008. Finally, with these statistics that speak in their way about police work, a good indicator of the state of security in the Republic of Croatia is also a record visit by foreign tourists to the Republic of Croatia during and last year, which is another indicator of confidence in our country's security system. I believe that all of this needs to be congratulated and thanked for all the employees and employees of the MUP, as well as for all security staff contributing to the good security situation in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the HDZ Club will accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69115	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69116	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll first of all look back on this issue of tourism. In some ways I felt the need to take the message of Mr. Secretary of State as a message that it would be best if we never talked about the state of security in the Republic of Croatia, so we will best help the situation and possibly a better picture of Croatia. I cannot agree with this because I am convinced that in this Croatian Parliament there is not one MP or anyone else who is not interested in the security situation being as good as possible, that we have the best police, that the Ministry of Interior is working in the best possible way, and I think that this is one important assessment that would in some way not be a good message if this debate were eventually to be understood in any way other than our common interest that the state of security in Croatia would be more favourable, in the interest of all MPs and us who represent the electoral base. Secondly, I am convinced that with the 2009 rating we will certainly not be able to influence any image in that part because I think that this debate at this point will be very rare to see, so we should not worry that it will affect anyone even in the Croatian public, let alone abroad. What I think is important, which is that this House, regardless of the minister's duty, deserves a written report to be addressed by the Minister of the Interior and to defend that report he wrote especially if they are such good results, but maybe he's busy with some other things. I wouldn't go into it, but I think the fact that it is necessary to clarify how this report even came to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament is very important. Namely, for 2008 there is no legal obligation to submit the report of the Minister of the Interior, only to insist on the Internal Policy and National Security Committee must say unanimously all together, so regardless of the parties we have asked that such a report be requested, given that it has been prescribed, by law that the minister must submit a report on the state of security or the conduct of police affairs, which was on the agenda, and I will remind you, given the passage of time that we have almost had the opportunity to see those results, the complete police summit was here at the moment when the former prime minister was running across the border, so at the same time we had a situation to come to the agenda, but what was delayed and here we are now in a situation to talk about something that was long ago. But I think it is necessary in some way now to invite the representatives of the MUP first to be the minister who will defend his report that it does not apply this way to the Croatian Parliament and secondly, I hope that we will now get the 2010 report in time so that we do not have to discuss it in 2012. Also, the statistics you got about a year ago, I'm just not going to go into the details at all because it might confuse you. Let's just say this just before the 65th comparison is just an example of how some input elements shouldn't be taken, so on the one hand we have to be extremely satisfied with the fewer people killed and killed in car accidents. But I could only mention how many cars there were then, whether we had highways or not, without talking about the number of foreign tourists that were coming in now. But okay, about statistics later. What's important to me, for the MUP, is that we allocate 4.5 billion kuna a year, we still have a huge number of police officers compared to the population. Here's just for comparison 596 is in Austria, and we have at 221. So that number must be improved in terms of better organisation, better way, and especially as the funds have grown seriously and changes are expected in that part, or serious reforms within the police system. The dark crime zone, so when we talk about statistics, it's still a trend of worrying or falling the number of crimes is in any case a good thing but it must not be in the area of organised crime, economic crime, corruption, drug abuse and domestic violence. That trend has continued for years. That's where you can see if the police are doing or not doing their job. If there's a 4 to 10 drop in some places and up to 18%, it's not good, especially if that trend doesn't stop. Co-ordination of the body of repression as well. What we've been looking for has not been presented. There is still ping-pong among various repressive agencies and this coordination is failing. I think it should also be pointed out that this thing has to change. What mattered was the search earlier to form a cold case department. It wasn't for no reason. Our statistics give us wonderful and wonderful results of the solution 98%, but when you look at the situation that to this day some murders that are known to everyone are neither moving nor doing anything about it. In that part, I really expect this to be a well-intentioned message to try to solve everything that may be statistically small, but surely for the state of security and general security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia it is very important that these cases be resolved. In particular, it is not good if in any way they try to place murders in certain electoral periods, or during periods of certain authorities. I will now say to this opportunity, there are no your or our crimes in that sense, that is what is very important and that it cannot be approached in this way or that some cases are not solved or that they are put in context that someone else was in a situation that has to approach such a case or criminal act. What we advocate or think is very important and it is an anti-violent climate that must have its course in this society will not be solved with a stick and we need to know that well. And in that part, the worst part is when a police bat serves as a conductor wand. I think it's very important to create a anti-crime atmosphere that won't happen the way we have every little bit of this shock action. My message is next, and that means we had shock one, so shock two, so shock three, all three ended up in a way that made major police actions, no court epilogue. It's been going on for years, and I don't think that this situation is going to take any step forward. What is expected and what is very important is that the quality of police work depends ultimately on whether the suspect becomes a defendant and then a convict. The court epilogue creates a picture of how far the Croatian rule of law is and will depend on the police's success as well. On the co-operation of the police and the judiciary, as police are only the beginning and the first stage I will now state which precedes the criminal proceedings, in order to bring them to justice and to impose a fair sanction should be carried out by a series of rigorous and precisely harmonised measures and complex procedures. At this point, the numbers, the number of perpetrators, the number of convicts, and the number in prison are saying that we can't be satisfied with this condition. First of all, I'm going to name a 35-percent rejection for 2009. Now to make it easier for you to follow up on the report of the chief state attorney that we have here on a regular basis in the Croatian Parliament. That percentage increased to 43%. Therefore, the situation is even worse now than it was in 2009. In that part, the share that we were responsible for at that session is 20% of the criminal charges filed by the police. Every 5th police report gets rejected by the State's Attorney's Office. It is a worrying statistic, and it is something that we have asked for this Assembly to be reported, especially what is important to take steps in this regard. Unfortunately, I'll also remind you of some cases that occurred during that very period in 2009. Then Zagreb became the new Serbian mafia's metropolis, then we heard from Mr. Minister about the arrest of the gentleman who grinds people in the meat grinding machine to solve 15 murders. None has been solved, or at least we don't know it. At the time we were in a situation where we were hearing about various things, I'm going to say, I have to tell the Crucial Cases, but from that year, until today, the beating of journalist Dusan Miljuš has not been solved, Galinca has not been solved. The issue of secret accounts abroad has not been resolved, the issue of Slavonska Banka and the sale of Hypo Banka has not been resolved. The issue of malfeasance in Holding and the City's headship has not been resolved. The affairs in public procurement, public enterprises, the secret plan for the takeover of Podravka, the murder of the lawyer Hrvojo Lesic and his son in Lošinj, Davor Zečević, Trip Penovic, Vinko Rodic, Nikola Liscara, not to count further. And don't make it look like I'm reading some of the fresh paper that's going on, that's October 1st, 2009. I wish we didn't also ignore that such a situation has happened before, but let's not settle for statistics, let's not really get journalists doing police work. What is very important to me is that police must not expose individuals to media noise, and that there is no quality police report and the safety that will not happen by law, which is to leak data out on persons, and that there is no prosecution after that, but that is to be rejected. I must say at the end of my address that it is much more important for me to talk to both the Croatian Parliament and its bodies about something of real interest and the Croatian public, that it cannot happen that the National Security Strategy is being brought in, and that we are the last to talk about it, that here are the proposals for a new law on police, and that this Croatian Parliament should implement it within 7 days, but there will be topics further. I must also say that from that time of 2009, it seems that we have forgotten what the job of the Croatian police is, that it reveals and finds the perpetrators. There must be no change in roles. It is the body that prosecutes those people that the police discovered and found, who served the State Attorney's Office for Criminal Persecution, not that we're in a situation where everything happened, all these affairs that I'm not counting, without any movement. And finally, why, this question of the report, what's wrong with him and what's our objection. First of all, the dark area of crime, the poor coordination of the rejection of criminal charges and the absence of a court epilogue, the lack of a policy paw from the police. It's something that still marks that period in 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69117	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69118	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, representatives of the police, distinguished gentlemen of the council. Here is my predecessor Mr. Ostojić, if I understand him correctly, mentioned that in Austria a police officer comes to 596 citizens, and in the Republic of Croatia a police officer to 221 citizens. Here's the air-conditioned head, and it confirms it's true. So 4.5 million people now count, divided by 221 so we have that number somewhere around 20361 cops, that's math, but right now. 4.5 million people divided by 33,000 people means we have 13000 employees in the system, almost 70% cca, say as many police officers or one who works in the MUP comes to 136 citizens. If we look at how many adult citizens are in the Republic of Croatia, one employee of the MUP comes to 106 full-time citizens. Or one police officer, an MP, all together, if we reject the elderly and the children comes to 75 citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And a man really asks himself if it's a lot. I even think it's too much, and yet it hasn't been revealed who liquidated as Ranko Pukanic says, who liquidated lawyer Lesevic, Levar, who shot Kosa down in Poreč, who beat up Galinac, Miljuša, etc., etc. A man is really asking himself at this time whether there are too many people working in that repressive machine, whether the Croatian state is a militarized state. If we add to that 33,000 people who work in the army over 20,000 people, it turns out to us that one member in that system is repressive, we call it that, it comes to 35 to 40 people. According to this logic, the safest state on the globe should be, although it should be pointed out and it should be acknowledged, the truth is that Croatia is still a safe country. Secondly, I absolutely agree, and lately we've been dealing a lot with the past with Mr. Karamark, whether it's about fascism, whether it's about Nazism, Bolshevism, Communism, and in particular all crimes, especially those that don't get old, and this is about war crime that needs to be investigated and no sentiment should be given to anyone, no matter what I say or under what flag I serve. It's just that what surprises me, let's just say these events in this 2009 report, there's not a word. How is it that nothing has been done in the period from 2007 to today or from 2003 to today in this regard? How could it be missed that we now hear ourselves not explore all these vast cemeteries, all these monstrous crimes. Or maybe it's a word that all of this is gentlemen, well, there's not a lot of us here, nor is there anyone following at this time, motivated by election needs. I'm saying it's about this other guy and it's not good. It is not good that at this point this form of accounting with communist executioners is used for election purposes because then it can clearly disabling this entire operation or action. The prime minister, gentlemen seven, eight days ago, said that in Croatia, it was relaxing or relaxing because it jumped the number of cars purchased. Who bought in January cars, new cars? The MUP and this 215 damage Octavia plus 39 players Toyota Land Cruiser plus an unidentified number of BMW interceptors, and in 2011, there is still 800 vehicles to buy, and for the needs of the Government through operational Leasing, 1241 vehicles are to be purchased. Now, what does these vehicles have to do with my introduction? Maybe it'd be better if they bought it, to learn the historical truth. Okay, that's why the police aren't in charge, those little divers, etc. So, if we understand each other there is no dilemma I am 100% that every crime is investigated but not to politicize the high and the high dignity of the victims again at least to make a clear attempt to rehabilitate I don't know a defeated regime until '45. On the other hand, it denies, as I know an anti-fascist uprising without which half of Croatia would not be integrated from Istria, Rijeka, Zadar into the national Corps. Likewise, let every pit be clearly explored because the pit is not a tomb without a sharp rematch. Why did I start out like that, so I could call the M.O.P. to say the same thing as with, say, crimes, so-called crimes. The division's handiwork in Sisak after '91, which, with Kerestinco, Laura, is the murder of Levar, the Paki Field, because every crime is a crime and, especially, such crimes don't get old and they have to be sanctioned. It can't be fair, and I will say this to the trial of communist officials, I don't know the size of the NOB in Croatia, as the investigation of the cases mentioned cannot question the legitimacy of the Homeland War, which was legitimate, fair, defensive but should be closed. I'm thinking as much of this last discrepancy about Purda. Let's just say our Minister of Justice said we shouldn't have informed him. Two days ago or yesterday I'm listening to the Ministry of Interior say or the police have informed him. Purda says we're not. Mayor Ilock today on all the portals, I personally informed him, etc. Now the announcement of the same thing Mr. Ostojić was saying to the police after it was filled I'll tell the HDZ personnel is depolitizing a positive announcement. But I'd say that doesn't apply to the first people of the ministry. Yesterday, they weren't or are being shown as independent and tomorrow they'll be partying. What the gentlemen must have marked in 2009 is the resignation of the former prime minister. What marked 2010 is escape. What will mark 2011 is his return. I will also take this opportunity to polimise with the columnist Vecernje list, Mr. Milan Ivkosic, who wrote a column. Among other things, he mentioned IDS on Saturday, so he says the IDS has its own police force. Unbelievable! I just don't know it, but I know as they say that out of 1,500 cops in Istria, I don't know how many, there's not a third of them and they're Istrian. So, the citizens who are born down there, who have a domicile down there. And it is not disputed, but just to simply unmanage one prominent columnist who follows, reads, respects, respects and perhaps follows these texts. I keep calling on the people of Istria to report to the police, especially to do so at this time of crisis. Because if anything else pays, it's safe, it's neat. Far from being enough, she's modest. But unlike the employment agency's income, I'm still going to say it's privileged at this time. Under quotes privileged. With that, in Istria, I was just getting some data out a few days ago. We've got about 87 to 88 thousand employees somewhere. A pensioner in Istria comes to 1.9 workers, and in Croatia one to 1.25 and perhaps there is a reason why some did not report to the MUP yesterday or until yesterday. But it would be good if they did. And I don't see why Mr. Grubisic will simply correct me, because I really don't make any difference here no matter who came from where. However, I claim that anyone living in Istrian spaces simply feels Istrian. As far as the bombings are concerned. I'm saying it and in context or the one in Slavonia is Slavonac, the one in Dalmatia is Dalmatian, in Lika Lica, etc. I'm saying that and in the context of this, let's say one attack on the Mayor of Porec Mr. Kos. Four years ago, I already mentioned him, his car blew up. Three, four months ago, maybe there were five I don't know, attempted assassination. The police say it's about intimidation. A silencer gun was found, a bullet was found, a shell casing was found. The truth was not found by whoever did it but was not found to this day by the perpetrator. I sincerely want to believe that he will find himself just as I want to sincerely believe that this happened to Kosu because he was protecting the city's interests. Another problem with anonymous reports. Someone told me, I don't know if it's true, it doesn't have to be true that in Europe you don't act on such reports. I don't know, maybe I didn't say it right, but really enough with those anonymous reports, that every 15 or 20 days you have to answer, I don't know about any court or police. Let the individuals sign. This is just how everyone exposed to the link was either him or not guilty. We need to send a clear message. Everyone has a civic obligation to fight crime. Clearly those who do so must be protected. But also the one who falsely reports you let him face it, but that's what needs to know who did it and that he can be sued. Just a lot of it. The 40th party is public gatherings. Let's let it go now when someone is running to kill, kill Cain, or someone else, but here we see some weapons threats by gentlemen these days, it can be done, and it won't be sanctioned, but on the other hand, when a list of defense attorneys is released... Or I don't know about Pernar yesterday, and those who threaten with weapons are not, maybe that's the only way to get those qualifications out, but I think we should also send a message to that in some way. [[You don't understand.]] Page 13 speaks of these most significant investigations in 2009,... And so, all in all, red is, when there's a political will I think it's done, when there's no political will I mean in some cases there's nothing, when there's political will, something's resolved, it's not good what we have right now at work, that I think at some point the State's Attorney's office in three or seven days immediately responds to certain questions, other people are letting themselves get squished on quiet fire, whether it's guilty or not, and I also think it needs to be changed because it doesn't lead to the credibility of our system. [[You don't understand.]] What should also be acknowledged, yesterday I listened to this controversy in Dnevnik, this report was sent in my court in good time to the Assembly, the MUP certainly is not guilty of not having the same turn for a year, perhaps it was not due to what happened in Zagreb in connection with the escape of the former prime minister, but it is certainly the biggest mistake of the police in 2010 that allowed the former prime minister to leave the country. However, I think that Croatia is a safe country, I am sure that it will remain, there are resources, I mentioned de facto that we have a de facto of 100 full-time citizens, police plus officials, and what we need to concentrate on is to do this season, to collect those 7 or I don't know what, 7 and a half, 8 billion euros, because it simply depends on the life of all of us whether we will have salaries, pensions, repay external debts and so on. All in all.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69119	Thank you very much. We have four corrections of incorrect allegations. Please, we have four corrections to incorrect allegations. He is the first, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In this debate, Mr. Cain has a lot of things to fix, but we're going to start, so we're going to discuss the hills of the valley, with the fragmented data, which are bothering me, and which are the two that I have to correct. And that's that the Istrians live in Istria. Mr. Cain, you often drill as a follower of anti-fascist struggles, etc. So I know that antifascists in Croatia sang the beautiful land of Istro Mila, the home of the Croatian people. So I don't understand how you guys keep... And you deny that Istria is and the Croatian region, and that it is the dwelling of Croats. [[You don't understand.]] That's one thing. ... I understand well, only you understand, and this isn't Sarai's and you're talking as stupid as you said in Sarajevo on the 60-minute show, when you were fed to the kebabs in the garden. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Keep going. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69121	Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you very much. Don't. ... I can't give you another quote. Your time is up, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69122	It is not true that there is no Istrian police in Croatia, as he says. They're Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69123	They're safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69124	There are, thank God he has them. It's a completely incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69125	Thank God it does. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, this time I have to agree with Mr. Grubisic, it's really all a lot of incorrect information and data, but I'd like to correct one thing, which I think is important. He said that the investigation of communist crimes was motivated by elections, which is really not true. It's time for all these crimes to be investigated, for every crime to be investigated, I'm the only one who doesn't understand what you're afraid of. You're obviously afraid of something when you're against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69127	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the corrections. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Majdenic corrected this inaccuracies quote by counterpart Kajin, where I quote her, exactly where he said it was a reckoning, that it was a political purpose with communist executioners. I quote what you said. It's not about any reckoning, every one of you, you've denied it yourself, every crime needs to be investigated and the crime doesn't go out of date. And you're politicizing a dear colleague and police, you're politicizing the police, so Istrian police. The police need professional, quality, professional police to do their job. It's on the trail of those pre-election promises of yours that you've been telling your time here that in a repressive machine you imagine 160,000 people. But in that part, I was relieved by a wise Podravac who said, and without worry, be not voted for by his householders either. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69129	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Agent Cain, but I beg you, I beg you, in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69130	My hosts voted, I suppose, for me and also for the citizens of Istria. But second, you know what bothers me a little bit too. Yes, of a thousand 500 people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69131	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Correction of an incorrect allegation. ... Please, Your Honor, the other day we had a club deal and a nice deal, let's not spoil it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No one forced us to make a deal. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will correct the same inaccuracy as my colleague said, which is that communist crimes are being questioned for pre-election purposes. My colleague Cain, that's not true, it's not true. The second thing is that we are signatories as a member of the Council of Europe and resolutions that talk about the condemnation of totalitarian communist regimes. It will not reduce investigations into crimes of communist crimes the fact that Croatia participated in an anti-fascist fight, as it does not downplay the fact or that Russia participated. Still Stalin is one of the greatest criminals, just like Tito was. This does not reduce the fight against antifascism, both Russia and Croatia. But let's finally say Tito and his communists were a criminal because he was, because he killed as many 100,000 people as Stalin did who was an anti-fascist, but he was a criminal, one of the unprecedented criminals in history. And through its resolutions, Europe simply regained consciousness. You do not recognise Europe, you do not want Europe because Europe has just condemned 3 totalitarian regimes of Stalinism, communism and fascism.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69133	Time, time. Thank you very much. I would suggest please stick to the subject so it's not the 2009 report, and we've already moved to '41. Or '40. Let's settle down a little bit, and let's discuss the 2009 report. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary, Honorable Ivica Buconjic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69134	Thank you very much. Just for a little while, the answer to Mr. Caine because I think he's headed into the water of politicization, and it's not good. You're commenting on things you don't have data or arguments for. How many Istrians there are in the Istrian police, look at the interest of the locals to join the police in Istria. Take a look at the tenders that the MUP has been calling for the last 6, 7 years and see how many people with the address of the Istria residence have reported for the job. We received from other parts because there was no interest in the domestic population, we received candidates from other parts of the Republic of Croatia who showed interest in working in the police and they said they wanted to work throughout Croatia, they said their place of work was the whole of Croatia. I would also just like to respond to Mr. Ostojić about one piece of information that appears to be accurate, but it is also subject to manipulation. Namely, he said that 596 residents are coming to Austria for a police officer. He knows very well that there are different methods of calculating the number of officers. Whether the number of police officers per 100,000 inhabitants or the number of residents of one police officer. However, you know very well that different countries use different methodologies, so it happens that when Austria calculates the number of police officers on 100,000 inhabitants, it happens that the French don't count the gendarmes, so it happens that the Germans don't count the border police and then it turns out that in Croatia there are an abnormally large number of police officers on the population. He's somewhere, as far as the basic police force is concerned, about 330 officers per 100,000 inhabitants. This number is indeed moving from some 250 police officers to 100,000 residents in certain countries, but there are also countries like Greece, such as some other countries where this number is larger than in Croatia and Mr. Cain even said one thing that 1 policeman is coming to 100 inhabitants which can certainly be counted. But I would really just like to make sure that the figures are not always exact and that they are not politicized with them, and especially that Mr Ostojić knows for sure that there are different methodologies and that we should not politicise with these figures so that it does not turn out that Croatia is overly militarized, that we have too many police officers. Croatia is by number of police officers in the middle of Europe by all indicators.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69135	Thank you. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you see, you said there are no locals in Istria who are resident in Istria. Well, of course they don't answer, but for what? Not because they don't like what you said, but they have more lucrative jobs. There's an unemployment rate of 5% to 7%, but if we call today, there'll be 10,000 people on the force in Slavonski Brod. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69137	Thank you. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69138	I have to fix this... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69139	No, no. You didn't report for a correction of an incorrect allegation. You haven't picked up the plate and you can't get the word. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69140	So I have to correct the incorrect quote about the numbers. My intention was not to play with that statistic, I showed it as an example. But if you just want one country that has the same population as we have 8 500 cops compared to our 20 grand. It's Norway, and I'm not talking about size. However, something much more important was not my goal to talk about. The question is, how much can we pay for it? And in an individual debate, I'll be able to talk about some other numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69141	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Honorable Representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69142	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. They say statistics are the exact set of incorrect data. Here, that's what a few speakers said, and the secretary of state himself. Today, we have a document that confirms this definition in the most picturesque way. So we have a document on more than 170 pages with a series of tables, charts and statistics. This report is not acceptable for the HDSSB Representatives Club for several reasons. The most important groups of reasons refer to the first work of the Croatian police to prevent and detect crimes and the second to the attitude of the Croatian police towards the detection and processing of war crimes committed in the Homeland War by large-scale Serbs. The first group of reasons, the work of the Croatian police on the prevention and detection of criminal offences -- each report can be discussed and discussed, but it is even more interesting to discuss what the report does not say. Because it's always about what's not written, what's wanted to be hidden, not what's presented to the public. That's the way it is with today's report that shows a lot, but it doesn't show anymore. Especially not what the Croatian public is most interested in. Especially in light of the latest series of recent months of crime, robbery and corruption discovered, involving top state officials, mostly members and ruling parties. Let's take it in a row. We had opportunities to listen to statements from the MUP as I quote: "Safety of our export product". The statement sounds nice, but it is not clear to the Croatian public who it is intended for and for what purpose. Because if it's intended for the Croatian public, then it's about mocking their own robbed people. In the Republic of Croatia, El Dorado for organized crime and mafia, in the highest circles of government, and I quote: "Safety is our export product" We were safe with such police work being the only thieves, and how not even those two of the last three were involved in the thieving of past results. If this message is intended for the international public, then we mock ourselves, the whole state and all its citizens, because by organized crime and corruption we are according to recently published data here and in an enviable second place back, unfortunately as a country with the highest degree of corruption and organised crime. First, under HDZ rule, tens of billions of kuna were lost, and no sign of the loot. The only thing that's known is that he's done the robbery is known whose head was Alibaba from Doubbab, and that's what this report is about, not a letter or a voice, let alone where the cave where the coffins and the black bags of stolen prey are hidden. One discovered so-called. The returned black bag means nothing when it's known that the sea is still such undiscovered bags. As no owner makes spring so no black bag with stolen money or several stolen paintings means a successful fight to prevent and detect crimes. Does anyone really think that the Croatian public is interested in tables and charts, and because of the robbery that devastated Croatia on the street there are nearly 335 thousand unemployed, more than 100 thousand people working without pay and an army of hungry digs in containers. Does anyone really think that the situation in which the vast majority of Croatian citizens are located, is also interested in whether the current minister of police will enter HDZ or continue to act as a non-party person or do you think that the hungry and unemployed are interested as we had the chance to listen to in the media last night whether the current minister is Superman or just a mortal? No, gentlemen, this is not what the Croatian public is interested in, and this report is not only for parliamentary representatives, but for all Croatian citizens, the entire Croatian public. And this public is very interested in explaining today's Minister of the Ministry of Interior who not so long ago said, "If I were to say everything I know about Faber and Sanader and one and the other we would have to fear." I'm asking a question to Mr. Minister, and I'm sorry for having dinner here because it would be my turn to be here, which Mr. Secretary knows not only about the former fugitive prime minister, the longtime president, but also the honorary president of the HDZ, Ivo Sanader, but what does the minister know about the secretary of state in his ministry for which one and the other would have to fear? It is clear to us that Ivo Sanader does not have to fear only the Minister's knowledge, but the Croatian public has the right to know of which and what knowledge the minister should fear one of the most positioned police officials in the Republic of Croatia. Did the minister also consider Mr. Secretary of State Faber's role in fabricating false evidence in the police political persecution of General Glavas? The truth about this shameful role will very quickly see the light of day, but when the Minister of the Police of a State publicly says that someone would have to fear if he said everything he knows, then he asks at least one fundamental question, is the police minister also aware that the cover-up of the knowledge of the crimes committed and his perpetrators is also a criminal offense? And there is no letter of interest in this report about these findings of ministers who are very interested in the Croatian public. We heard statements that "the co-operation of the MUP with Fimi Media was gone" and then it was announced that the previous two police ministers were very active participants in the robbery affair and then today we are discussing a police report. In Croatia, thieving, crime and corruption has spread in the highest authorities such as ambrosia, and in the report on the weeds, the sowers, but also the herbicide. Another group of reasons for the Croatian police's attitude towards the detection and processing of war crimes. The role of Croatian police in the Homeland War is immeasurable, to honor and pride all members of the Croatian police forces from the very beginning until the end of the Liberation Defence War against the aggression of Serbia-Montenegro and JNA in Croatia. However, the role she received was played by the Croatian police in relation to the Homeland War and its participants during the postwar period, especially in the last few years she has not believed. In recent months, we have been constantly witnessing something that is directly or indirectly involved or should have been involved with the MUP for years. I also think of the persecution of Croatian defenders both Tihomir Purde and Veljko Mladic, Petar Janjic-Tromblona, Danka Maslov and all others who have found them, are either on the international warrants of the Serbian prosecution. He repeatedly praised the current police minister for statements of excellent co-operation with the Serbian police. He also said this saying at last year's anniversary of Croatian victims' death in the Far 1st of August 1991, and then announced a very quick discovery of the perpetrator of this terrible crime committed by large-serb aggressors. And after that, the result of this excellent co-operation with the police of Serbia soon came days after that of bringing charges against the defenders of Sibenik. Not long after that, a persecution of the Croatian defenders of Sisak was announced. An extremely good co-operation between the Croatian and Serbian police has continued with accusations and the arrest of Croatian defender Tomislav Mercep. And the highlight of excellent cooperation was the arrest of Croatian defenders Tihomir Purda and Veljak Marić and the shocking knowledge that the Croatian MUP, as well as the entire Croatian government, has known about the monstrous indictments and international warrants against Croatian defenders for many years, and this has been kept silent. And those who slaughtered the Croats in the Far are still unknown. The villains who killed Croatian directors in Borovo village continue to walk freely in Croatian mocking all living victims, but also to remember every Croatian sacrifice from the Homeland War. Ministers Karamarko and Dacic said recently "we will not share criminals on yours and ours". It sounds nice, but ours is a mushroom after the rain, and where are theirs? Are there no rain, no mushrooms, no criminals, and the perpetrators of war crimes in the area are not Serbia, but Croatia is better off not talking. Croatian police officers are doing their job professionally, but the problem is not in them, but in the leadership of the MUP. In order to understand this relationship between Croatia's MUP and the Croatian defenders, it may also be said that today's Ministry of Interior as the then director of the POA was an active participant of a meeting where the famous sentence "locate, identify, arrest and transfer" has been formulated by all Croatian patriots and defenders. All those involved will remain with a permanent mark, an indelible tattoo on the body, and the soul of every inventor of this treasonous phrase. No matter who gave orders at that meeting, and who had ideas, who was a vowel, and who was only obedient to the head and shamelessly did his part in persecuting one of the true heroes of the Homeland War General Ante Gotovina. It's final. It is unequivocal, glorious and honorable role of Croatian police during the Homeland War but it is embarrassing that some of today's police leaders and themselves active participants in the persecution of Homeland War heroes, even in setting up and installing indictments against them. However, the passive role of the Croatian MUP is also embarrassing in preventing not only persecution but also the arrest of Croatian defenders on the basis of Serbian indictments. What good does Tihomir Purda benefit from a statement made by Minister Karamark and yet incorrect, that after 50 days of incarceration by the Croatian defender, our minister came to know, after an apparent long and difficult search, that Tihomir Purda was still informed that he was on the so-called. a red BOLO. Just that it was true, and it was not, if it is the most you can and you know do in protecting Croatian defenders from the persecution of those they fought to enable you today to have well-paid chairs then the Minister of the Ministry of Interior, but the entire Government of the Republic of Croatia should now step down from power. Because if you don't know or won't do anything to protect your citizens, and above all Croatian defenders then no one deserves to represent those same citizens and be paid fat with their money. The entire Croatian public wishes and hopes for a happy end to the agony of Croatian defender Tihomir Purda, but let us not forget Veljak Marić. But it is a shame for the Croatian state and its authority that the fate of Croatian defenders depends on the mercy and mercilessness of those who have defended and defended their homes and homeland in war, and that those who sit in overpaid chairs and who have made these same chairs possible by their sacrifice and struggle by Croatian defenders, that these well-paid representatives of the Croatian authorities have done absolutely nothing for them. Except that they have been asking for months to confirm whether or not they have been persecuted and besides some phone calls, the Croatian authorities have done nothing concrete for the solution of their fate, and they can and must do much more. So until all the accusations of the Republic of Serbia, the aggressor country in the Republic of Croatia, against all Croatian defenders, are lifted and diplomatic relations with Serbia have been abolished, and the Law of Forgiveness which has led Croatian defenders into an outrageously discriminating position in their own state against those who have ruthlessly destroyed and destroyed the same state. And finally let me just say more about the gentleman's statement, I think Cain said that former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader escaped from Croatia and that it was a sin of the police that should not have allowed it. I'd say first of all to HDZ agents that you're wrong. You've often said in the grandeur of Eve Sanader that he's a man before time. So here he showed that here he was as a visionary before you went to the European Union and ended up there in the fort, but he didn't forget about you too. The band of his fort is also here on the banks of Sava. What's wrong with him, Salzburg? It's a lot of HDZ Remetinec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69143	Your Honor, you didn't exactly stick to the subject, I didn't interrupt, but I'm asking everyone else to stick to the subject. And secondly, when it comes to the grandeur of the name and character and the actions of Eve Sanader, we could have a little laugh. Smile a little, come on. Let everyone see that. ... /The noise in the hall./... We have several corrections of incorrect allegations, and the first is the distinguished representative of Stjepan Milinković.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Buric made several incorrect allegations, but I remembered one where he said that with this kind of work the police are the safest thieves. Well, that's absolutely incorrect and it's an insult to all those cops who work hard, professionally their jobs. And what kind of message is that dear fellow tourists who come to this country, and we're a tourist country? Absolutely, I believe you have no idea. So I would define this statement of yours, which is based on more or more of that, so if it works, it works. And you dear colleagues first insult your profession here with some instructions, call instructions, etc., give lessons about this or that, and you end up singing Vienna. And I'm giving you the thought of thinking about a song to suit you with "Terress shepherd sheep." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69145	I'm asking you to make a deal. We agreed that there was no personal insult or heavy words... It's one thing and I said it to everyone before and I say it now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In accordance with the agreement, we should stick to the fact that there are no personal insults. Just pull, listen, I'll answer that real quick. But the breach of the Rules of Procedure is a clear article in 209 because there is talk of something that was not the subject of the agenda. And when you want to talk about songs and songs and the singing of Vienna, I have a Vienna for you, and now I'm going to recite to you another as much as you like or don't like it: Woe to us with this kind of government, whatever they see they steal from us right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69147	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Your Honor, let's get this over with. What is the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honour, MP Milinkovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69148	Article 214 has been injured. A colleague does not behave in accordance with the rules of conduct in this House of Higher Education, and he insults our entire Croatian democratic community all the time, according to that and me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69149	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69150	And this other thing, I've corrected his incorrect quote, that's correct. And he incorrectly used this infringement institute of the Rules of Procedure and therefore injured Article 214. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69151	Your Honor, I warned him about that. I warned him about it. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69152	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It is an incorrect claim by counterpart Buric where he claimed that the government of the Republic of Croatia has done nothing for Croatian defenders. That absolutely doesn't stand. Well, in the case of Purde, she must've made the most of it. The State Attorney's Office was hired to examine all the participants and witnesses as soon as possible and to conclude that there was no basis for guilt. Similarly, it is an incorrect quote from counterpart Buric, where he claimed that two of the three Croatian ministers participated in corruption and robbery. Everyone is innocent until proven guilty and don't insinuate Mr. Buric in this House. It's equally incorrect that the secretary of state is involved. And it is certainly true that there are reasonable doubts that you, along with General Hospital Director Osijek, have damaged the hospital in return for the funds you received for the specialization by interrupting early work in that hospital that you should have compensated.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69153	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69154	... Here's a thank you. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It is clear to you, too, that this is a violation of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. When you're interested in this, I can tell you with great pleasure that it's something that's currently in court, that slander around me and the hospital, and with great pleasure I'm going to present what I get for humanitarian purposes. With great pleasure. But you know who? The victims of HDZ politics, the poor and the hungry.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69155	Thank you. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're simply responding to incorrect allegations and we're not sticking to that deal that we last said we wouldn't use in that way. And I'll tell you that from now on, I'll simply interrupt anyone who tries. I would also like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 19.05 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. And we have another club, distinguished representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go. HNS Club, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69156	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In the debate at the previous point, I expressed regret that we are not ministers of science, education and sport and the health minister, given that in Croatia we saw around 130 women on average dying unnecessarily because we are unable to implement the measures we know to save their lives. We have here colleagues and colleagues reporting on 268 deaths, 1300 badly injured, 2160 injured, billions and billions of damages, a series of outstanding issues in connection with war criminals, and we are not the interior minister. I do not think there can be a more significant meeting at this time than the plenary session of the Parliament, nor a more significant group of officials with whom he should discuss points and the content of this report. I'll try really hard to be brief, time has moved and I won't repeat myself with colleagues who spoke before me. In addition to depolitisation with which we absolutely agree that it should be implemented as quickly and as fully as possible, professionalisation should also be carried out. A colleague of Cain has partly entered this in a slightly unusual way, but part of the arguments he has presented is standing and surely needs to be told and rationalized. On the second page of the opening part of the report, the development plan is to develop a partnership relationship with citizens. We're absolutely encouraging it. We think it's a good thing, but colleagues and colleagues remember that police initiative in your neighborhood. There was a cop in my neighborhood for a couple of weeks and then he got lost, and I think it was a good initiative. Strengthening scientific research in the field of police science would have been good for the secretary of state to explain exactly what methods you mean, how many people you perfect, train to rule these methods. And finally, we expect that by introducing these methods, the police will be significantly more effective and that the number of cases detected will be clearly increased. It seems to us in front of the HNS Club, I must say that you were relatively stingy with the data relating to that part. The occurrences and events affecting security. We're pleased with the fact that your report reported an increase of 11.6% just at the border violation, which is good. We want to commend your work, we want to say that this is very important especially in the phase of approaching the European Union, the Schengen border will soon be there. Therefore, it certainly needs to be significantly more effective here than ever before. When it comes to total damage, you mention here a sum of slightly less than 4 billion kuna. I'll explain later that we think it's far, far from the right amount that's supposed to stand here. We agree with your finding that especially when it comes to drug crime and economic crime, it's probably just about the tip of the iceberg and that the actual number of crimes in this area is far, far greater. I recently had a chance at a meeting to hear about drug trafficking and it was said that a large part of the clear drug that goes to central and western Europe goes through the Balkan space, which through the sea route, which by land and not being able to detect more than 20% of the drugs, 80% passes. The price of drugs that hasn't changed in years on the European market is known to be very successful for those who trade, who transfer it, because otherwise the price would grow. She doesn't do that. Therefore, there is still much, much to do to really prevent the transport of drugs across the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We are pleased to be heading for phase two of the reorganisation of the Criminal Police, to be helped by the Dutch partners. We think that's good. The rationalisation should clearly take into account the data we have already heard about and tried to make it through a more efficient system, a more efficient system to reduce the number of employees in the Ministry of the Interior. It seems to me that Germany, which is ten times larger, is twenty-three times bigger than Croatia, seems to me only twice as many domestic employees as Croatia, which is a very interesting relationship of strength and speaks clearly about their effectiveness and in the number in which they operate. We are pleased that when you gave information on economic crime that you were able to clearly determine that the material damage was indeed enormous in terms of economic crime in 2009 and that, by your assessment, that damage was 82% higher than in the year before that. But we believe there's plenty of room here, too. We hope that this is not just one flash, but that it will be equally effective in this area and in the next years. As far as corruption is concerned, Transparency International's data since last year, and for 2009 they speak in their way of calculating that the Republic of Croatia is damaged by corruption works somewhere around 2 billion euros. So about 14 billion kunas and more than 14 billion kunas. I hope you agree, too, which means that the figures we have here are, of course, the tip of the ice and that we have a lot of, a lot of room here to discover clearly and large part of those crimes that you haven't been able to figure out by now. confiscation of illegally acquired property benefits is something we absolutely support, there also if you took into account how clearly you managed to return to the budget, i.e. to Croatian citizens estranged through criminal offences it is probably one small, small percentage of the damage that has been done, the total damage that has been done. We have one more question for you, or two questions, let's say for two years we will be in the European Union, then one part of the police force will clearly, along with the current Western border, be under quotes, have you considered how you will redistribute them, in which areas, in which areas, etc., because we see that there is a need for the police to increase in some segments of work. We are particularly interested in your response to and interpretation of what you have shown us in one table, security phenomena and events on 100,000 inhabitants. If you look at your colleagues and colleagues, it is very interesting, there is a huge difference in the incidence of individual crimes in certain counties. In some counties a very high percentage of certain crimes, in other counties of these crimes very little. We are wondering whether you from the national population are running some specific policy in relation to these situations that we have on the ground, and that perhaps you are strengthening teams that should be involved in disclosing those crimes that are much more in the field of one part of Croatia, because I think such specific measures would also be important to try to at least prevent these, and recorded, I don't know what to call them tops, or such a very high percentage of certain crimes that we have in some counties which, I don't know how to interpret, you probably have an explanation for that, but it would be even more important to prevent precisely those deviations from at least average, if we can't fully eliminate these crimes, at least clearly try to overcome the situation where it is not acceptable. Here, thank you very much. And we will most likely support at least those with whom I spoke at the club this report, but of course as you can see we think that you have many, many times to cross over to be completely satisfied with what you're accomplishing in your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69157	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then he's the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then Igor Dragovan, for discussion. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And it is next to the honourable representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69158	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here we have 66 pages of data, mostly statistical and table. Now what's the value of this statistical data? Let's analyze it on page 12 of your report. It is said to have discovered and reported 40 criminal acts of subjugation, including 40 persons, and 6 crimes of international prostitution. So 46 prostitutes and pimps were discovered. A paragraph below has been discovered and reported 136 criminal acts of counterfeiting money. In Croatia, we had more money counterfeiters than prostitutes and pimps in total. Now, if this data is so comically disproportionate to reality, the question is, what's with the other data? Is all the other data as unworthy as these? It is absolutely impossible for us in the Republic of Croatia, that the police were able to find out, so there are 46 prostitutes and pimps in total. And another six in some international prostitution ring. Okay. But now that we're talking about organized prostitution, I'd like to ask you a question about what's going on with the Ossetian case at the Juvenile People's House. And that one happened just in 2009. And just in 2009, so during the observed period, the police concluded that it was a false application and that there was nothing there. Two years later, only on press pressures that did not give up on the subject, it found that the prostitution was still there. The media keeps saying, I don't know if it's true or not, but first they said it was prostitution, so it took the police two years to find out, that the journalists were right, but they said there's been a cover-up so far and because there were some prominent politicians there as users of these services. So where we're expecting an investigation, the press is playing cops, investigators, and as we can see, they're more successful than the police, and eventually the police have to do it and admit that the journalists were right. On the other hand, where we expect no results, on the other hand, according to DORH's latest report, we have 20% rejections of criminal charges filed by the police. counterpart Ranko Ostojic spoke of it every fifth criminal report filed by the DORH police. Look, the police have trained criminals, lawyers, people who might have to be able to assess whether it's a crime or not. Another thing when a natural person submits criminal charges as completely unskilled is that he seems to have committed a crime, we encourage people to report suspicion of criminal acts, so it can be forgiven that these reports are unfounded, false, but when it comes in such a large percentage by the police, it's worrying. Are these criminals then trained enough to be able to assess it, because the percentage is a bit amazing. But maybe that wouldn't be a problem either, if we didn't have cases when false criminal charges by the police were raised against prominent politicians, and they were rejected. Mršić, Picula 2 members of the SDP presidency. The police file criminal charges, the State's Attorney's office rejects them. There's been some argument between Minister Karamark and Chief State Attorney because Minister Karamarko probably expected the state's attorney to follow him in this political persecution, but when he didn't follow him then he got angry with him. Well, it's an honor to the state's attorney that he was able to assess. But that brings us to the next question that seems to me to be a crucial question. And that's politicizing or depoliticizing the police. So is our police truly politicized, does it act on everyone equally regardless of their political position? Today, we discussed this morning, we need to close Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. If we have to come to the conclusion that the police are politicized, that they're acting under political order, and not by the law of the profession, then I'm afraid we won't close this chapter. And too much, too much to point us to this suspicion. Minister Karamarko here in the Parliament to encourage one parliamentary question says there will be an investigation, let's go to the investigation tomorrow, it's good for you to tell me. Against one politician. You know when this happens in one democratic country's parliament that the interior minister announces investigations against politicians then it speaks of politicising the country, politicising the police. There's more indication. The investigation against our fellow respected representative Roncevic now began only when he stopped being interior minister and suspected of committing a crime existed 4 years earlier. And they're being warned by the President of the Republic. No Stazic in front of Charlie, president of the Republic. The police aren't doing anything. The investigation against former Prime Minister Sanader, but not only against him, but a whole series of investigations involving Sanader and his related persons, begins when he resigns. Was there no doubt about the watches or the villa in Kozarchev? Well, it's been warned from here and in the media, but if the police don't have the guts to go into investigations against politicians when suspicion arises, then the police aren't independent, she's not professional. So she's politically directed and controlled. A senior official says he forged the documentation, or subsequently compiled documentation about the purchase of a party vehicle. The police are acting on it. Nothing, the man said he forged the document on the high amount of money and nothing. I'm the escape of Sanader, that the police didn't take his passport because he says he's protected by immunity. So immunity protects only from arrests, not from these measures. Well, we all know that. These are protective measures, of course you could have taken his passport. Enabling the escape of someone suspected, a reasonable doubt that he committed serious crimes all points to it. There's more indication, I won't list them because I'm not intended to accuse or demean police work because of this series of incidents. But my goal is to warn you of one problem. My dear gentlemen, if we don't have a professional police force with a minister who won't give orders on the political key to persecution, who will apply the law because the police don't have a boss, the police are the law chief and nothing else, it's her only boss, if we don't have such a police force and we won't close Chapter 23. We'll have a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69159	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69160	Correction is an incorrect allegation. So, the claim that the police are being politicized for filing criminal charges against SDP politicians that you've listed. I would say that when members of the SDP are involved, it is immediately a matter of politicisation by the police, and as always, there is a double standard. We'd like the police to be professional, but when it's not about us. It's not about members of the SDP. And we tend to have the police depolitized, we tend to be professional, and when it's done professionally, if it's someone against whom a criminal report has been filed is immediately a matter of politicization. As always, I didn't expect anything else from Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69161	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69162	Article 209 Mr. Vice President, you have a motive to protect me. I said there was a criminal complaint filed by the police and that the state's attorney's office rejected that application. What's wrong with that? You had a similar destiny. I'm glad that the State's Attorney's Office has rejected it and if someone's reporting against you right now, I'm glad it's rejected, but if someone like my colleague Culjak said and listen to you when Seks is rejected, then someone's objecting. Excuse me. Please protect me. This wasn't a correction to an incorrect quote, this is the most common abuse of correcting an incorrect quote, and as I say you have motive to protect me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69163	Come on, please! Mr. Representative Culjak was correcting your claim, in his opinion, incorrectly that the police were politicized. And he took as evidence such an incorrect claim he cited his reasons. It's quite common. I say I do not enter into whether his reasons from Mr. Culka are correct and his claims are incorrect or your claims are incorrect. I thank you for understanding one great one but it's not about hurting the Businessman. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here I would look back at the 29th page of your report on children and minors, and I would talk about something actually mentioned by my colleague Stazic before me. So it's about detecting and reporting criminality to the harm of children and minors. I'm not going to talk about statistics, I'm not going to talk about numbers, I'm not going to mention any of them because it doesn't matter how much the increase or the decrease compared to the last year when we know and it's very good that the crimes of juvenile prostitution, that the crimes of pedophilia, sexual abuse, are very much there. Not only do they exist in institutions and homes, but it happens in front of the eyes of those who are paid to care for these children and to provide them with as much normal growth, education and education. I would talk not about numbers but about the lives of children and minors for whom I would say I would completely lose the society of sensitivity and this is particularly tragic if we consider that it is most often about children of minors from extremely troubled families who do not enjoy any protection or social, or parenting, and institutions that should take care of them do not. And it's actually complete anyway in this debate why the system failed, where the responsibility lies, whether it's some kind of cramped possibility, vague jurisdiction, lack of money, deficit personnel, I think it's a lot more important something else, actually two things. The first is that fully unprotected children are very easy prey that their pimps cruelly exploit and push them into ruin to earn on them, that's the first thing. And secondly, what did you do to prevent it? So that's what I'm interested in and what I'd like to hear from you. Because behind the statistics on the page. 29 There is a case that my colleague Stazic mentioned, which in 2009 shocked the public, and this is about the publication of the morning list on 13 June 2009 on the existence of a chain of juvenile prostitution, you know where. The shock comes not only from the nature of the whole case, the shock stems from the way the police conducted the investigation. And here's a little chronology just to refresh your memory, so I'd like you to consider it. So on June 13th, the morning published this article on the existence of juvenile prostitution. All 24 hours later, the inspector working on the case was pulled under the pressure of an allegedly powerful Osijek politician. Two days later, Mr. Borovec comes to Osijek to announce that the investigation was completed three days later. He claims the story was made up that journalists bought the story of a 54-year-old who instructed proteges to discredit the institution. On that same day, police arrested Dragutin Pocrnjic on charges of widespread disturbing news, allegedly violating a court ban on access to his own child, which the note later proved not to be true, the judge for the crimes ordered him 15 days in prison. So my personal comment was that in the three days that the investigation took place there was nothing else to conclude but that the gentleman was crazy. That would be the simplest. And now, as the thing goes on, at the end of that same month, Pocrnjic is declared innumerable, truly declared insane, dangerous to himself and the environment and kept in a prison hospital for 5 months 11 days. But what about after five months and 11 days? The man was released from prison at home, and the welfare center returned his son from the juveniles' home, so they declared him crazy, kept him in a prison hospital, and then, after he got out of prison, they gave him custody of his son. You're really wondering who's crazy here. And it just sort of covered it up, a little bit forgot about it, when it came in February 2010, when the feeler reported to the police the Children's and Youth Home and the welfare center that they took his underage daughter and after a few months of being pregnant back. The head of the house resigns and when a little quiets down, the resignation is withdrawn. In August, police found this little girl, admits, she admits that along with a friend from the House of Breeding Children and Youth she was involved in prostitution. So, Mr. Secretary of State, I know you're not the right address for all the questions you'd like to ask now and that some of these things exceed your authority and your job. It would be good to have the Minister of Health and Social Care here as well to ask him some questions, as of course there is a question about the conditions in that home as well as in all other juvenile homes in Croatia. The girl is from Osijek, they say it's an institution that doesn't have video surveillance, that no one is on duty at the entrance, so we can ask who's responsible for what girls leave at night and go back to late hours? We can ask who's responsible for what a few girls have been positive for drug testing? Who's responsible for some of the girls having an abortion? Who's responsible for a girl being pregnant during her stay at home? Who is responsible for buying alcohol in the immediate vicinity of a nearby store? Who is responsible for domestic violence and rape? So these are all the questions that we could ask and I rightly ask them, the more that even in the sense of police circles, the ones that want things to be driven out to clean talk, I say, how one big affair is covered up. And of course this guy's going to think, yes, in measuring whether it should fit into the protection of a little girl or some powerful one, it makes sense that someone decided that the girl didn't matter. So let me remind you, in Portugal it took 20 years to regret that the long-covered horror that was happening, which was actually thrown out by underage boys in an orphanage, a pedophile paradise of high society, was also obtained by a court epilogue. My question is how long will it take Croatia to finally shed light on the cover-up of the youth prostitution chain in the Osijek House for raising children and minors, who, according to the protégénics, were also involved persons from the higher society. So here's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to say that kids can't wait for some better time, we just don't have the right to ask them for it, and that's exactly what we're doing. And isn't it absurd that those better times are waiting for children who are just coming from some lowest layer of society, who are without parental protection, who are victims of violence, who are sick, who are poor. So we can rightly ask ourselves, and where are the children's rights, where are the children's rights? They do not seek or need our mercy. We simply need to create a system that will allow them to gain their rights. That's what we're responsible for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69165	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69166	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, here are just a few more sentences on the completion of this discussion. When I spoke about the number of police officers I used official statistics, that means Austria 1:596, Norway 1:57, Denmark 1:499, Ireland 1:328, Germany 1:316, Slovenia 1:255 and this was used old figures. Today's numbers you've given in the attachment are even worse. This means that if you go to see the number of police officers in the population and in particular sentences that are part of this report, in the attachment to human resources, the Ministry of Interior is asking for another 5,000 seats. So, that's what's important. I don't stand for it to be less cops, but the thing is that with the number of cops we have, we can certainly, with a better organization, achieve a better effect, and that's what I think is very important. The number will normally continue to grow even more in the light of the situation that awaits us to meet these obligations, especially around the border police. Secondly, I wanted to note that in this part of the anonymous reports and these situations that we had just before with my colleague, Trazic, it is very important that we never see that part in the reports, or we never hear it. And that's the situation with citizens' representations of police conduct. We have a long way to go means a lot of people who actually address the Department of Internal Affairs. Within 30 bottoms, this response should be given, most often in fact, that the person who put up with the play is wrong, but what I think is extremely important has been shown in several cases normally that came out in public, that the findings were not quite correct. Now I'm not going to repeat what these cases are, it's not really my intention to give me a different picture, but I would remind you of Article 171(3). The penal law of the Republic of Croatia, which is an obligation for all police officers, and that no one has ever answered. The ease with which sentences are used that someone is criminally reported, that this information is going out, that it can be done, that now we have an example actually used in a very negative light are contrary to the law and the police must actually take action on their part that such things do not happen and that they do not participate. That's what I think is very important. It's also very important these questions report, so the Ministry of the Interior I think we need to come up with a variant that it's a regular practice not really an urge by system whether you hand it over or not and who's guilty or not guilty or who didn't put it on the agenda. I said for 2008 he was gone at all, for 2009, we fought him, I hope that in 2010 that report will be here on the agenda. Also, just a little bit more about sensitivity and these reports that we don't see or what they don't have. Here's a concrete case, the Phoenix action, which was investigated from 2000 to 2003 in 373 possible locations, exhumed for 148 locations, found 267 bodies, and at 298 test sites did not confirm the existence of postmortem remains. Now in this report we have 45 meaning digs, I'm saying this is about missing people in the Homeland War. So much about sensitivity and how to solve things means how to approach it. And I must finally say that the issue of the Home Secretary's report on police affairs, I will repeat once again, is not a question of defending certain party positions, but is the interest of this House to discuss why we allocate funds and to focus these money on the best possible way, I will finish the last. Be assured that we are interested in having as good as possible, as effective police and what is most important, with as little politics in it as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-23-0.u69167	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. She's gone. Shime Luchin. He's gone. Representative Marin Jurjevic. He's gone. Secretary of State, you have no intention of final consideration, you do not. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with point 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, First Reading, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. A report by the Minister of the Interior on the conduct of police affairs in accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly. I'm voting on the next conclusion. That report shall be accepted. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. The result? I find that with 75 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 27 against a conclusion that accepts the report.
