ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75872	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable representatives and MPs, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, representatives of persons with disabilities. In front of you is the third annual report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for the reporting period from 1 January to 31 December 2010. In order to respond to an increasing inflow of complaints from persons with disabilities in the office, but also to create basic preconditions for the implementation of other laws of the intended activities of the offices such as protection, monitoring and promotion of the rights and interests of persons with disabilities in particular in the segment of the fight against discrimination. We hired another counselor, and at this point the office numbers 11 employees of which I have two deputies and five advisers, or advisors who work with the parties. During the period covered by the report, activities related to strengthening the presence of offices in all regions of Croatia as well as cooperation with civil society organisations at national and regional level working for the benefit and interest of disabled persons have been continued. Then to the ministries and other state institutions in whose jurisdiction the legal regulations of persons with disabilities or its implementation were legal. The cooperation was also presented and the experience and examples of good practice were exchanged with representatives of international organisations who recognised the office as a place where they could get information about the state of the right of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. Through numerous meetings and numerous meetings, we have been involved in the work on all issues relevant to people with disabilities. In 2010, we conducted 1474 cases of violation of the rights of disabled persons, 187 of which were the initiative of the office itself, 35 tours were institutions in which they were rehabilitated, treated, educated or placed persons with disabilities, and in 729 there were multiple consultations and interventions by telephone or e-mail. The comparison in 2009 was handled in 962 cases. This is an increase of over 40% this year compared to the previous reporting period. The largest number of cases concerned the exercise of rights in the areas of social protection, then the accessibility of pension insurance, legal protection, or justice, and labour and employment. The maximum number of consultations we had on the phone and e-mail refers primarily to the area of social protection, then the accessibility of pension insurance. As some of the examples of questions that individuals have asked for consultation on the application of regulations, we cite some of the cases. For example, the right to parent status, the right to a personal disability, whether a person can exercise the right to an advantage in employment, the right to compensation for physical damage, ensuring accessibility to sacral objects, the right to a smart card, assistant teaching, the right to a personal assistant for persons with mental or intellectual impairment, the right to free supplementary health insurance, unresolved property-legal relations, hastening in long-term procedures. Then systematic support for students, persons with disabilities, for example in visual or hearing impairment, means support to be able to study as well as other people who have no disability, to seek certain material support and financial assistance in the supply of medicines, then low material censorship. Over the past year, counselling in the field of social protection has been the dominant activity of the office through which people with disabilities, i.e. parents of children with developmental difficulties, have focused on effective measures to be taken, i.e. institutions that can help. Often, parents of children with disabilities and disabled people pointed out that the outcome of their dissatisfaction actually lies in the lack of a system of care and lack of information on rights. In this regard, complaints of lack of non-transparency as well as the inequality of the criteria for assessing the conditions for the exercise of certain rights were common. Although much was expected of the Social Care Act, it was not adopted until the end of this reporting period, and the way in which the draft of this Law was adopted and the unacceptable short deadlines for public debate are unacceptable. Compensation, rights and forms of support must be based on objectification and individualisation, and fees must be targeted and encouraged. Despite the short term, the office submitted its proposals and remarks, some of which were accepted and those which did not make substantial changes in the situation of persons with disabilities. We have proposed that monetary fees should not be related to property and income censorship but exclusively to disability, and that the fees should be aimed at the possibility of independent life and involvement in the community. In this way, it would avoid making money on the basis of disability actually being a kind of social compensation just to meet existential needs and to allow persons, to actually be compensated for the increased costs that a person has due to their disability to be equal to a person who does not have them. As long as disability benefits are linked to the property status of a person, there is no real motivation of persons with disabilities for education and employment, but the system supports people to rely on social care, which is contrary to the principles of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Policy Guidelines for Persons with Disabilities. As regards the right to services, it is necessary and urgent to make concrete decisions regarding the identification of real needs and the development of services in the community. Despite the declared objective and commitments made by signing a joint memorandum on social inclusion of the Republic of Croatia, we believe that there will be no real shift in practice for some time. As an example, it would cite service providers, i.e. social services, which should be in local environments, i.e. local environments already informed of how this will be done. However, we have the knowledge that despite the period until September that no education has actually been implemented, and regulations have already been passed. The National Plan for Deinstitutionalisation, the transformation of social care homes related to the period 2011 to 2016 has also been adopted. However, unless sufficient services are developed and adequate cash compensation is provided, the process of deinstitutionalisation and prevention of institutionalisation will also be a dead letter on paper. In that part, we have made a series of recommendations and we have indeed tried through social protection, that is, what we have recommended to educate local environments and that what is planned to bring down is simply to be transparent and that education must be conducted with those institutions that will be able to be social service providers. The next problem we want to warn about in this report is the position of persons who are deprived of their business skills. We carried out research and a recommendation and made a number of recommendations in this section concerning Article 12 of the Equality Act on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities where we actually learned through the Social Care Centre that the number of persons deprived of business skills in Croatia is around 17 thousand. It is not a problem in that number because it is somehow moving in some European standards, but it is unacceptable that more than 90% of the total number of people under custody is completely deprived. The Republic of Croatia is also a signator of legally binding international documents that prescribe provisions for the purpose of protecting and promoting the rights of persons with mental disorders as well as those deprived of business skills. Those provisions should apply directly in practice. Some provisions of the Family Law which are now a protective mechanism to ensure that human rights are enjoyed by persons deprived of their business skills are not sufficiently applied in practice. In the future, activity needs to be focused on reforming the custody institute through the improvement of practices and changes to the provisions of the current law and the overall system of care, and all in order to increase the protection of human rights of persons with mental disorders and intellectual difficulties. As regards accessibility and mobility, certain developments have been made, both at local level through cooperation with persons with disabilities and at national level through projects of the ministry that seek to remove or prevent barriers. However, much more needs to be done in order to achieve a level of availability of services for disabled persons independently of which the damage is done without discrimination. Last year, there was an amendment to the Law on Public Roads. The office gave a number of proposals that some of them were adopted in part and we stressed that in the case of benefits for obtaining smart cards, it is not necessary to introduce restrictive measures, but it is necessary to exhaust all other opportunities and as a last resort to the removal of the rights of persons with disabilities as one of the most sensitive categories of the population that needs the greatest help from the state. We have recommended that the conditions for obtaining smart cards, i.e. the release of fees relating to the use of highways and payment facilities be tightened, thereby significantly reducing the budgetary resources needed for this purpose. In order to combat discrimination against persons with disabilities who use assistants as assistants, therapeutic-rehabilitation dogs is necessary for society to learn about the role of these assistants in their daily lives of persons with disabilities and to coordinate sublegal acts concerning transport with the Law on the movement of a blind person with the help of a guide dog. In that part, we also made a series of recommendations and suggestions. As far as education is concerned, we have addressed a number of recommendations to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, according to primary schools, according to secondary schools, we have held the education of secondary school workers in order to prevent the prevention of violence among young people, then according to education and education agencies, the Agency for Professional Education and Education of Adults, and we must stress that without education we cannot talk about employment and then about independent life in the community. It is therefore extremely important to ensure that children with developmental difficulties are entitled to inclusive education at all levels. From preschool to primary school, high school and lifelong education. It is not possible without secure forms of support and adaptation for which it is necessary to amend the rules and to adopt appropriate sub-legislative acts. The implementing rules for primary and secondary education have not yet been adopted at that time, which has made it difficult to ensure the right to educate children with developmental difficulties. It is necessary to clearly define the obligations of inclusion of children with disabilities and to establish mechanisms that will guarantee this independently of the sensitivity of staff of educational institutions or the financial strength of individual local self-government. In the existing system, the lack of adequate support for children with developmental difficulties actually serves as an excuse for their non-inclusion in the regular education system, which in most cases means separation from the family for schooling in segregated conditions for the limited choice of occupations that are not actually sought on the labour market. This lack of adequate support in terms of teacher education, providing accessibility elements, adapting the programme to the abilities and abilities of the child or providing assistants in the follow-up is, in many cases, a failure to make reasonable adjustments to the educational system for students with developmental difficulties. In the field of employment and work, we have seen a series, based on applications, and also on ourselves, a series of necessary changes that should be made regarding the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. In this part and on the basis of the applications, we decided and proposed to the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership to hold a thematic session on employment with a view to the protection workshops which was held in 2010 and in fact from which a number of quality recommendations were made to the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in order to, as I said, encourage employment of persons with disabilities. It is not clearly defined which persons with disabilities have the advantage of employment and the right to incentives for the employer or to be persons whose damages are indeed an obstacle to employment. Incentives are not enough to motivate employers, and penalties for failing to comply with the employment quota are too mild and there is no control over their implementation. If more work were to be done for people with disabilities to be employed and to enable them to be requalified in the event of certain damages actually occurring if they were properly rehabilitated they could continue to be involved in the work process, we would not be talking about so many disability pensions today. As far as pension insurance is concerned, the needs are to continue, education of additional employees of the area’s pension insurance offices working on the calculation of pensions based on a solution on professional or general incompetence for work. In order not to make mistakes that further make it difficult for a disabled person to have a difficult financial situation. We know that legal preconditions are currently being created to ensure the conditions for the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities in accordance with the assessment of the disability model as well as the convention. In that part, we also made recommendations under the Pension Insurance Act. In the field of health care of disabled persons, significant developments have not occurred in terms of improving the quality of health services. Rehabilitation is insufficient and inaccessible or reduced to people with disabilities in rural or isolated areas, and in the field of mental health protection, it hardly even exists. Early intervention for children with developmental difficulties is poorly developed and limited to some major urban environments. Most medical institutions are not accessible persons with disabilities and information support for people with visual and hearing impairment is still poorly developed. It is necessary to further raise the level of availability of quality of health services. The health care of people with intellectual impairment is a particularly pronounced problem due to the lack of systematic care for their mental health, and they are making it very difficult to use all other health services and, above all, dental care. It's a particularly difficult situation in the field of health care for people with mental psychosocial impairment. And the development of a psychiatry system in the community has just begun and is happening too slowly. There has also been a change, but they have been well-intentioned in order to maintain rehabilitation and care in the house and should have brought about special changes. However, from the application of people with disabilities, we continue to learn that in many parts of the Republic of Croatia there is an unequal application of these rules. In that part, the office visited rehabilitation facilities in the Republic of Croatia and some of the psychiatric hospitals. We have made a series of recommendations and are constantly in collaboration with the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, as well as with the Ministry of Health and Social Care. In the field of health care, we organized a thematic session on the rehabilitation of people with spinal injury precisely on the need of a reference centre that will actually enable people with spinal injuries to be comprehensively rehabilitated in one place, which is a major still lack in the Republic of Croatia. As regards the work of associations, associations are immensely important as civil society organisations recognised by the state as partners. However, if someone is a partner, he also needs to provide budgetary resources so that he can take those activities that are actually a substitute for those gaps that the state does not meet. Associations are service providers, associations carry out continuous prevention activities, do the part of the work that the state is trying to do but only through the tender and in fact through the project, allowing associations to continuously implement these activities. However, in order for a valuable project to be approved, at times this approval, which is possible because of an unlisted section in the application form, an entire area remains uncovered by targeted activities to meet those needs arising from disability. So that's how certain categories happen, for example. children or adults do not receive the necessary support that depends on their health status and participation in the life of the community. The Office has made recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to allow continuous financing of the basic activity of the Association of Persons with Disabilities and the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities as ordered by the Convention. At this moment, in accordance with the obligations undertaken by the Republic of Croatia, the signing of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is necessary to develop a comprehensive and comprehensive disability policy which includes cooperation and joint concerted action by all state bodies whose work affects the lives of persons with disabilities, from health and social care through family and defenders of intergenerational solidarity, science, education and sport, economy, labour and entrepreneurship, environmental protection, spatial planning and construction, but also from the Ministry of Justice as confirmations that persons with disabilities are not social cases but their needs are human rights. The office daily testifies with examples from practice that children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities continue to be treated as part of a medical model. On the basis of medical diagnosis, they are compensated, the entire system assesses the skills aimed almost exclusively at their limitations and deviations from the average functioning. There are no real changes that everyone declares to be. If we do not move away from the medical model towards a social model based on the remaining abilities and capabilities of a person and an individual assessment of the forms of support needed for active inclusion in the processes of education, employment and participation in social life. Only by developing a social model can we avoid so far a practice of orientation towards social benefits that lead to the passive and exclusion of people with disabilities and that is in no interest at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75873	Thank you very much to the D.A. for the disabled Mrs. Slonjšak. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. A representative of the government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and the first is on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75874	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Attorney with your deputies, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here's a special way of saying hello to Mrs. Mirjana Jurisha, who's worth translating this debate for people with hearing damage. Here's what the D.A. herself said and told us before us is her 2010 report, which in my opinion is very extensive and very thorough and detailed. I think she's the lawyer herself, and her entire office, that they've put forth a lot of effort and effort to make this report really include all of those I'm going to say and the most tiny problems facing people with disabilities and the ones where the lawyer has managed to solve some problems. And what I find extremely important in this report, which is the recommendations that are here, that will certainly help all of us both to the ministries and to our MPs and also to the disabled to see where we may not have done it enough and where we can still make our big contribution. As the D.A. said, in 2010, it was handled in her office in 1474 cases, of which 418 were opened as an object. I want to express my opinion here that it seems to me to be a good indicator. When I say a good indicator of this, I mean, it's not that large a number of dissatisfied persons or those who have faced some problems. Thus, there is not a large number compared to the total population and not even the total number of people with disabilities. I'm glad the D.A.'s office did the same thing in that so-called. telephone conversations because most of the problems facing people with disabilities can be solved by a simple telephone conversation, since, as the Ombudsman herself stated in her report, one and a greater number of people with disabilities address only for some advice, just to talk to someone and that is what they need. Of course, a large number of people with disabilities who do not live in the City of Zagreb or in one, at any other major centre, have an additional problem in the small environments at all, and then also about the exercise of their rights, whether because they do not know what their rights are or have not been informed enough or have not been informed enough, so from institutions to associations to which they belong. In one part, the lawyer mentioned the general lack of information of people with disabilities. It seems to me that there is no such thing because here I am, from the knowledge that I have that the attorney and her entire office, the roof organization of persons with disabilities, the Office for Human Rights of the Government of Croatia, all of them together are making great efforts and putting forth great effort to get into these small environments and to bring together gatherings, symposiums and different round tables to people with disabilities their rights and to hear what they are facing and what are the key problems that they in such small environments may be more difficult to address. When the prosecutor speaks of the number of cases in which the office handled it, it seems to me that it might be good to have received in this report the information on how many cases were rejected. There were certainly those who may have unwarrantedly contacted the lawyer, perhaps her office was not responsible for their problems, etc. So it would've been nice if we'd seen that information here, too. This is like a small guideline for the future because it seems to me here after, on the site immediately where the number of cases is spoken, so page 16 is immediately talked about how the Ombudsman has often and unpleasant experiences in contact with people with disabilities because they often ask for their problems to be solved within the time limit immediately, and we know that in a number of cases it is impossible. In any case, I think the D.A. has described very well what problems this most often encounters people with disabilities. When it comes to the work and employment of people with disabilities, and what I think is the crown of all that we want to achieve in the affirmation of a better quality of life for people with disabilities then I would like to say that with particular satisfaction I can point out that a major shift has been made in this area. Of course, this shift is not satisfactory and we cannot be completely satisfied with the way people with disabilities are employed, but compared to a few years ago today we can say that we are all doing this job well together. I also obtained several reports from the Croatian Employment Service. The D.A. and the D.A. are working on their report, but for my own personal knowledge, I wanted to see in more detail how busy this person was in 2010. 1080 people with disabilities. I will not say that this is an impromptu number so that we can boast for sure and one big step forward thanks above all to the Croatian Government who, through the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund and through the Croatian Employment Service, has made it possible for these two institutions to hire persons with disabilities to give them a certain type of incentive, which certainly facilitates their employment, i.e. to encourage them to employ as many persons with disabilities as possible. Although here I must say I have read one piece of information in this report, which is that a certain number of people are employed in the open labour market without any incentive. This is the kind of information I get personally cheered up. This means, however, that the awareness of people with disabilities has begun to develop in a positive way. The moment employers want, they will have the will to receive in their midst a disabled person, and for this they will not be the only important incentives that they can get from the state then we will probably be able to express some and greater satisfaction not only by hiring people with disabilities, but also by making all other people, so those who have no disability realize that people with disabilities can work equally well, equally well in many cases and better with people who have no disabilities. There's a record that says that people with disabilities are least used by sick people, that people with disabilities are Radholics. Why? Because taught by their life experience and knowing that they are often told that they can't or don't know they want to prove themselves, they just want to prove that it's not true and that they can do their job for which they are qualified in the best possible way. I think what I am now talking about is a witness and an example of our Ombudsman, so let us also be represented in the Croatian Assembly, which we are particularly concerned about the problem of persons with disabilities, as well as all those other people with disabilities who work in very difficult and responsible places. In order to achieve something like this when it comes to hiring people with disabilities, an absolute prerequisite for such a thing must be quality education. Today, we are witnessing that people with disabilities are training for occupations that are no longer profitable today, for hurricanes, for engravings, for footwear, etc. They are usually three-year vocational schools and from such schools it is very, very difficult for people with disabilities to find a job. I would also like to point out that the Ombudsman has explained in a very good way how much she has made comments on the adoption of certain laws. I would also like to commend the Ministry of Health and Social Care on a quality interaction when it comes to the adoption of the Social Care Act, when the Government has accepted almost all objections and defenders and individual objections from associations and persons with disabilities in order to make this fundamental law for people with disabilities as high as possible. The Institute of Inclusive Supplements, which is introduced in this law, which will be passed by a special Act on Inclusive Supplement within three years, I think it will solve most of the financial problems of people with disabilities. It is also evident that the Ombudsman has made a lot of remarks when we passed the Law on Croatian Radio Television. And on this occasion, I would also like to thank Mrs Mirjana Jurishi, who is certainly one of the most competent persons so that, with her good cooperation, we have installed quality provisions for people with disabilities and in this law. The recommendations the D.A. made here, I think, as I've already said, are extremely useful, that it will help all of us. I will only take one sentence, and I will conclude that I will refer to one recommendation, which is a recommendation for the alliances and associations of persons with disabilities, which according to the Zagreb Declaration must be financed, so that no specific competition with the programmes is going on. Therefore, their basic cold drive must be financed from the State budget. On this occasion, I would like to say that we have already reached a quality solution on this subject with the Resolute Ministry of Health and Social Care, and I believe that this problem will soon be resolved to the satisfaction of all associations, associations and all persons with disabilities. Finally, I support this report on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, and I thank the Ombudsman and her most comprehensive team for making such a comprehensive report, although it seems to me that a summary of this report should have been made, because it is extensive, for one reason only, and that is that most of the MPs in this House could read this report because when they see this 300 pages like this, I don't think we've read a lot of this, and it would be good for education and all the representatives in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75875	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75876	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry I'm gonna have to object a little bit at first, that's all. I don't think the name of the document is birth-rightly declared. In 2010 at the head of the Office for Persons with Disabilities was a woman, so in my opinion, we received a lawyer's report, not a lawyer's report as it says on the document. I'm sorry about this little remark, but I'm going to go with the report. Only the 2010 Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities presents an extremely comprehensive and comprehensive picture of the work and problems the office has encountered in the past 2010. As last year, I will say this time that the report on the first wave seems both overwhelming and pretentious, however, a number of examples and details of the report should be seen as examples on which to learn, so there should be prevention and should no longer be repeated when they are in negative connotation, or there are examples that should be used as a pattern in positive outcomes. In any case, the work of the Advocate's Office for Persons with Disabilities shall represent or strive to be an independent mechanism promoting protection and monitoring of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I agree with the findings of my predecessor and indeed this report has a lot of pages, but it's only a sign that the office has worked very hard and it would really be an obligation for every MP and MP to read it and try to work on better solutions in this area. During 2010, the office handled 1474 cases, compared with 962. In 2010, 418 cases were newly opened, 99 of them from 2009 and 6 cases from 2008. It is pleased to note that 70 cases from 2009, 5 from 2008 and 252 cases from 2010, but 29 cases from 2009, 1 from 2008 and even 166 cases from 2010 were forwarded to this year. That's the data he's worried about, and he's getting bigger year after year. Statistical data show that the largest number of requests came from Zagreb and Zagreb County, which is an invitation to mobilize and raise awareness of all persons with disabilities in the whole country so that the rights and opportunities for assistance and information for all are at least equal. The office's assistance required more men 51.5% and fewer women 37.7%. 16.6% of cases were related to children with developmental difficulties, and in 72% of cases they were adults. The report further shows that social protection rights were the most frequently violated, then it was the area of pension insurance, justice and, in particular, the area of accessibility that deteriorated in 2010 compared to 2009. This is more difficult to conclude in the report that the planned state-level funds for improving accessibility have not been used enough for what reasons are required in local self-government units or in associations that should put pressure on their own environments and seek accessibility solutions. In the field of education, we would especially like to emphasise the fact that education from preschool, as well as increasing levels, must provide equal opportunities for each child. Children with developmental difficulties must encounter understanding and support of the environment in which they are educated. In order for that to happen, personnel who follow such children must be educated. The state is obliged through legal and sublegal acts to regulate the problem. Today, the situation of assistants continues in part, and successfully, solves and covers in some let's say bigger and big cities, and I ask what is wrong with children in small areas, especially in the rural part of our country? In 2010, the Ombudsman’s office dealt with a number of other activities such as: county visits, the establishment and promotion of cross-resorship cooperation, visits to institutions in which they reside, work or are temporarily, or permanently located persons with disabilities, participation in activities related to the implementation of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, participation in the work of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, established international cooperation, organised and participated in expert meetings, required reports on the implementation of international and national documents, and gave recommendations and warnings with a view to improving the situation of persons with disabilities in the Republic. This report continued to show us the business of the office, the financial operations of the office, and, of course, as every year, it also made recommendations to the office. Let me look back on the terminology this time, too, because unfortunately we too here in the Assembly Hall are very often wrong, so here I am. So don't mind me saying it here the way it says it in the documents. Because the question of terminology is unusually important because discrimination often begins with the very choice of titles or expressions. So let me also use this pay phone in this High House to remind us all together of the 2003 Sheraton Declaration, which supports the terms of people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties as a binding unique termology for daily speech. A few sentences yet in areas of violation of law. The report shows that the largest number of cases I have already mentioned, open as the case in 2010, concerns the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities in the field of social protection there were 20.8% of cases, in the area of accessibility 12.2 and I have already mentioned there, but I repeat again, there is a shift of the problem from last year's 4th to the current 2nd place, in the area of pension insurance 10.2%, the area of labour and employment replaced places with the area of justice compared to 2009, so that 4th place in the area of justice is 9.6% and 5th place is recorded in the area of labour and employment with 9.4% of cases. The Croatian Employment Institute data on 31.12.2010 records 6 thousand 255 unemployed persons with disabilities, which makes up 2% of unemployed registered in the register. I want to stress here that it is true and must become a key knowledge fact that people with disabilities do not only have damage but also have potentials that can develop with the incentive of an environment from which everything that prevents the development of remaining abilities to the benefit and satisfaction of the person himself but also the community in which life is realized. The development and development of existing potential is the easiest to develop through employment and work, as the right to work and employment is one of the fundamental human rights. Any impediment to the exercise of this right constitutes its violation and discrimination. The Croatian Employment Institute's December 2010 records show that an extremely large number of people with disabilities have been reported unemployed for more than 5 and 8 years, respectively. This fact is extremely worrying because employment is likely to decrease by increasing the years spent at the Employment Office. Long-term unemployment other than unresolved status leads to isolation, loss of self-respect and communication problems. Although registered as workable, these people need much stronger support from the system in the form of additional education, practice, and even motivation in order to get involved in the labour market. Paradox is also very common in the fact that people with disabilities are not enough for employers, while on the other hand, social care systems do not have enough incompetence to be able to exercise the right to compensation guaranteeing a minimum of social security. The following problem is the nomenclature of occupation for persons with disabilities who do not normally follow the needs of the labour market. This gap between the education system and the need for the labour market is an insurmountable obstacle to the employment of persons with disabilities, especially women with disabilities whose position is particularly difficult in this regard. In this part of the report, the Ombudsman pointed out that more efforts should be made to implement the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and as a positive example, the so-called "Popal Rehabilitation and Employment" said. Protective workshops. The following report discusses violence, not only of domestic violence but also of other types of violence are mentioned both between spouses and children and in the ranks of children and young people. There have been positive shifts in this area in the last 10 years, but we have witnessed that despite all efforts from day to day brutal violence is taking place, most of which are victims of women and children. Violence can only erupt in situations where it is not opposed by the power of the community, where it is not opposed by the power of the community. We are tasked with all continuing to strengthen and perfect this power of community through legal and sublegal regulations, education, awareness-raising and strengthening of public condemnation of every form of violence. Further in the report, the Advocate's Office shall report visits to county institutions and accessibility to the same persons with disabilities. I am pleased that compared to last year's qualifications on non-accessibility at the Special Hospital for Medical Rehabilitation at the Stubic Spas, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for the written reply and the apology. I must tell you that this was extremely important to the employees, as well as to the users of the special hospital, among which is a large number of people with disabilities. A few words about my Krapina-Zagorian County. My Krapina-Zagorje County is a partner in the project "Promoting more intensive inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market within the 4th component of the IPA programme-The development of human potential". The purpose is, of course, to improve social inclusion and to increase employability. Recently, I had the opportunity to attend the presentation of the Action Plan for Krapina-Zagorje County between 2011 and 2013. I appreciate it with an extremely high-quality document that we very much expect in this area in a positive way. Finally, the Office of the Advocates acts in order to fully accept fundamental rights and values such as dignity, the right to choose and control their lives, equality and solidarity that are important to each person and to persons with disabilities. We in the HNS-HSU Club estimate that the Republic of Croatia has a number of regulations, in particular national documents based on the Convention and the Action Plan of the Council of Europe, but there is still much to be done on the procedures for the unconditional application of these documents in such a way that the life and work of persons with disabilities is monitored daily and, in that sense, amended and complemented by legislation which will certainly lead to a better and better overall approach of the community to persons with disabilities. And in the end, I will say that the HNS-HSU club will fully accept the Attorney General's Report for Persons with Disabilities for 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75877	Thank you. It is up to the SDP club and Mrs Vesna Škulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75878	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The process of equating human rights is long and painful, and when it comes to persons with disabilities, we can call this process an even longer and even more exhaustive process because unfortunately it brings with it deep roots of traditionalism, which sees disability from the position of charity or even worse, they have not accepted it, and of the people who have potential and the ability to introduce them into total isolation or modern language social exclusion. The esteemed Ms. Attorney-General of the SDP Club will accept your report which is a little lengthy, but quality and warning. Warning for executive power, legislative authority, warning for executive power and for all of us, and of course for your office, and most of all for those on whom this report speaks. According to the World Health Organization's latest report, the number of people with a 10% disability increased to about 12% with a growth trend. So this is the latest report I attended a few weeks ago at the UN headquarters in New York. Realistically, we as a country with our own legislation are pretty messed up. It has been said for many years about the unique body of art, about equating the rights of all persons with disabilities, about pedagogical standards, about accessibility, about social inclusion and everything where people with disabilities would give all of their remaining opportunities and skills and thus become equal citizens at all levels and in all parts of Croatia in the same way, but that is not the case. We can boast forever, but it doesn't seem to hold water anymore, that we signed among the first and ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Unfortunately, when a report was to be sent to the first in all articles of the miracle convention, it is not mentioned at all in Croatia, and the deadline for submitting the reports was 3 May 2010. If we were to send a report to the UN Committee on Control of the Implementation of the Convention at the moment, it would only be discussed sometime in 2013. I think in the right sense, we fell from a horse to a donkey. It's not fair, gentlemen in the government, with a nice wrap of paper and an even nicer ribbon, but it was supposed to work, work and work after ratification. But what we do, we create parallel systems where someone can go to one school, and someone can't go to another school, and they have the same disability. Someone can bring in a car and don't pay the VAT, and someone can't. I'm talking about the same disability again, not the way disability occurs. I'm also talking about parallel systems when it comes to the right to choose. Someone can go to the store with the help of an assistant because it belongs to a similar association, and the other one doesn't. In civil society, people with disabilities are ruled by chaos, especially when it comes to funding projects. Someone's government and the ministry is a mother, and someone's a stepmom, depending on how many times the government's work is praised. I do not understand why the criteria for civil society are finally set and do not respect their views as a co-ordinator of all of us who work for the benefit of all citizens of this country, including persons with disabilities, and that we do not have to expect applause from them, but only inspiration and commitment to further and more quality work because of each individual in this country. It is the role of civil society, and many are forgotten. Persons with disabilities should not be models of any policy, no government. They must be our incentive, our obligation, our associates, and each of us must respect the principle of "nothing about us without us". Often in the field, we get complaints that they're not granted funds because they don't have their own people who decide on projects. Often in these bodies there are persons who have no disability, and the leaders are associations and alliances and determine which projects are desirable, and which ones are undesirable and in this way... the work of local associations, i.e. lead them into an addictive relationship with individual alliances. [[You don't understand.]] The pilot project of a personal assistant should have become a law long ago, not a blackmailing project, regardless of how many users of personal assistant services are increasing is not available to everyone. So I repeat again, same diagnosis, same problems, different decision-making systems. Also, the UN Human Rights Committee itself has expressed concern about human rights violations for intellectual persons in the Republic of Croatia. We still have a very strong model of the institution, and we can't see the near end of it. Also, rare associations such as "Slat" association and self-representation associations promote the rights of mentally ill people and people with intellectual difficulties that should be included in the community through the support system, but unfortunately they do not have our support. I have often been a representative, as well as my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP club warned about the merger of two large systems, the social care system and the health system, and in this particular report, this is the area of the social care system, especially in which social protection rights are most violated. Unfortunately, ministers are also represented as health ministers. Here's the secretary of state himself. He was late for this part of the agenda today. But where's the welfare? So the perception of social care itself has completely fallen into oblivion. Finally, the social care reform itself that had to be passed in 2007 with this new social care law has taken a major step backwards. That's what the D.A. also talked about in her opening statement. Accessibility is also listed as a major problem, and I think you could write books about it. It is an absurd situation to say in Zagreb or another city there is a ramp to get on the train, and when you reach the destination you do not know how to get off the train. There's no point in talking about cross-town public transport. No bus, even in the tourist season, has a lift ramp for a wheelchair. No train stops at the station's surface level either. So with low incomes anyway, without the possibility of importing cars, without paying VAT and persons with disabilities have no alternative, although I am aware as a representative that this privilege will be abolished by all entering the European Union because we have committed ourselves. But I don't understand why the government didn't come up with a model in the meantime because transport is not a matter of luxury but of accessibility and ability to move and question orthopedic aid. Of course, I'm not talking about luxury cars, blinded BMWs, I'm talking about human right to move. I don't accept the fact that the state is in crisis. Maybe someone sold... For 10 million euros, maybe someone wanted to hostilely take over Podravka, maybe a square apartment can be bought for 120 euros, tunnels can be painted to the will, and miles of roads cost as much as the resolution minister wants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Bridges can be built in the middle of the meadow and then how to think after all that the country is in crisis and things will be resolved when the country comes out of crisis. This is not about the economic crisis but about the moral crisis of the ruling set when they put their excessive ambitions ahead of the well-being of vulnerable groups, including people with disabilities. I don't want to accept the fact that we're hostages to a system that discriminates precisely because of a lack of money instead of promoting human rights. I could talk a lot about employment. Who's the real owner of the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund? Could the Minister of Finance or the State Treasury or the Minister of Economy send me in writing who paid everything and how much money to disobey the law? How much is it and when it is punished by employers and in what way and ultimately where is the money? This time I also call on the State Attorney's Office to do a little bit of professional rehabilitation and all items that go from the state budget or games to the items of the type of empowerment of persons with disabilities, raising awareness or something like that. I'd like someone to give me a concrete explanation of exactly what that means. Does anyone keep records of the empowerment of people with disabilities? What does that mean? Whether they should be socialized, whether they should be enrolled in school, set up a workshop. So, a lot of vague items in the budget and a lot of money is being allocated. The area of pension insurance is a really special area. I don't think those who work in that system can handle each other, and people with disabilities are even less. The system doesn't recognize them. People with disabilities without adequate healthcare can't function. There is no real rehabilitation centre in Croatia that recognises individual diagnosis. If the Varazdin spas are a rehabilitation center for final injuries, why can't a quadriplegic in it function. You can't even talk about muscle dystrophy in that segment. We don't care about permanent rehabilitation at all. Children who are able to make incredible shifts to better stop them immediately at the beginning. Parents often raise their loans so that they can pay daily treatment to their children without talking about other forms of help. Also, many medicines that are used to improve life and are related to some damage are often not on the list of available medicines. The story of education is a special story. Regardless of the pedagogical standards that resemble the set of good wishes, she discriminates on enrolment in kindergarten or school. A lot was given to the directors at will. We don't have team teams, and the assistants in the class are getting through the connection. I know that this debate of mine looks like there is no movement in the Republic of Croatia. They happen of course, but where – in cities. But what about the villages and the islands? Why should children just because the school is inaccessible or the principal simply does not want to move on the ground floor a child from either the island or the hinterland or Slavonia must go to some of the centres in Zagreb or the first town that has a rehabilitation centre. So it's no longer a matter of system but of goodwill or a better word of uncontrollable system. People with disabilities are a quiet and invisible minority. They're often called invisible people. And as long as we treat them like this and lead them with us to be paralysed for too much ego or object of mercy, the relationship of society will remain the same. We can go to thousands of meetings, we have signed everything that has been signed, we have adapted all the laws to the European Union that have been adapted. But where are those who enforce the laws and those who should control law enforcement? Why does ordinary personal disability information belong to a state secret? It was easier to find out where Sanader's millions were from selling INA. By the way, just a year and a half ago, the vice president of the government was ironically laughing with a great leader when I asked questions about these same problems that I've just listed. The Prime Minister then replied that I had no idea, and she sat down with her hands. I'd like you to go to Youtube and take a look at that video. I think it's still funny to her or she'll react just because I touched her in her ego. In any case, look and you'll see who's laughing when it comes to problems and, of course, your applause on the other hand, which the great leader answered me on the parliamentary question. It's all on tape. You can see that. Then of course I don't think it's weird that we didn't send the report, which we should have. Then it is no wonder that the chapter of human rights and justice has passed on to needle ears and with monitoring in the European Union. I note that we have not filed any human rights violations charges for, say, inaccessibility or that an employer would not accept to work for disability, and that the convention was followed and implemented in chapters and that people are openly told from this point on, you can sue the state for contempt of your fundamental human rights. The state doesn't share charity, the state isn't imaginary. In it we all live and the state is not phone 060 or someone who gives charity or someone who organizes humanitarian action. We are the state who are also the legislative authority, the executive authority and the judicial authority and we are responsible to you persons with disabilities, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, a special department should be set up with the Ministry of Justice to detect and process human rights violations of persons with disabilities. It's not inventing hot water in the world, but there are such models. In such departments there are mainly lawyers who go out on the field when reporting a violation of a certain right and verify who is registered with various methods. The way he tells jokes about a minority in a negative context, if it's about an employer, how many people have reported to him in the past few years with disabilities that meet the conditions and he hasn't hired them, not one of them. Of course it'll fit. But what are we doing? We're gonna shut down the D.A.'s offices, or we're gonna pin them on the D.A.'s office. The fact is that there are many models in the world, and this office has just revived and believe me, it means a lot to people with disabilities especially in detecting problems and offering solutions and sensitizing people with disabilities that we all need. I'm not just an advocate for one idea and only one solution but I think about this office to do a lot of damage by removing or attaching. This Regulation shall enter into The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities which speaks of one or more independent mechanisms that will promote, protect, monitor the implementation of this Convention offers countries flexibility to set up a framework and allows different bodies of the institution to be involved in the framework together with one or more mechanisms in accordance with the Paris principles. And in the end, I would quote one of my colleagues from Africa who, when this convention was adopted, said, "We are careful that the convention does not become a set of words, expressions and as a minefield doesn't explode in our faces." It seems to me that this is exactly what's happening, only the government has well protected its face, and I wonder how many were injured in that minefield called the rights of disabled people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75879	Thank you. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. First Mrs. MP Ljubica Lukacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75880	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Škulić said a number of incorrect allegations. I thought you colleagues would discuss this report a little bit more without giving political speeches here. My colleague Škulić, if you do not know the election campaign has not yet begun. I'm going to correct one incorrect allegation because I wouldn't make it all the other way. My colleagues share the money for associations and you know it very well by the programs, based on the projects. They're being decided by every ministry by the most professional people. If that's not clear to you already today after this debate and you know it too well, but pretend you don't, Mrs. Jančar is here from the Ministry of Health, Mr. Secretary of State Adanic of the Ministry of the Family and ask how they spend it on associations so we can clear it up once. And just one more if you'll allow it when it comes to social care, you've criticized everything. Well, colleagues, most of the laws we've passed here for disabled people, you haven't been here, you haven't discussed them, and you haven't made any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75881	Thank you. We have another correction, a few more corrections. Mrs. Mrs. twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75882	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, allow me to stay seated. My colleague Škulić was surprised by your political speech, but I don't think you wrote it, it was written by your mentors for a pre-election campaign because if you wrote it, you wouldn't be able to bypass the arguments and speak incorrect allegations, which is that they are non-transparent work of associations. So look, with more than 300 associations, the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare has concluded contracts and funded 60 million kunas, the Ministry of Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity has concluded contracts with more than 100 associations and financed their projects with 40 million. And as for your ominous innuendo at the expense of the government, colleague Škulić, this government has strengthened you personally as a person and a woman with disabilities as well as any other person, not just a woman and children with disabilities, but we will talk about it in very argumentative terms in the debates. I believe something like this isn't just coming out of your writings. It's mentoring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75883	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Škulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75884	I refer to article 209 on insulting MPs, I think it's really incorrect to say, at the very least incorrectly and underestimably, that someone else wrote me a speech. Thank God I have, I don't have any other difficulties than physical ones, and with that I don't underestimate people who have intellectual difficulties. And I'm sorry, Mrs. twilight, I don't want to go into any debate with you at all because I don't think we're on the same level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75885	Maybe it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure when you step away from the subject of the debate and talk about other matters, it's also a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I haven't intervened, it's my position from the very beginning. So, the fastest I accept is how far this is possible, with a warning that we stick to the agenda and agenda points that are being discussed and that we are not moving away and that we do not use every single thing to give lectures about something else. Therefore, if everyone followed the Rules of Procedure, then there would be none of these and similar interventions that cause one another. Mrs. Carmela Caparin, also a correction to the incorrect allegations. And please correct if possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75886	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yeah, absolutely. There are a number of incorrect allegations, but here I am sorry that my colleague is so disappointed and she talked about everything, not this wonderful report. It's an incorrect allegation that we're going to abolish the Attorney General. We discussed this yesterday, and you know for a fact that we are expected to step up the actions of the Ombudsman, so all those activities recommended by the Ombudsman for disability. It is incorrect that there is no data for a specific asset. For example, you may not have read the answer your colleague Romana Jerkovic received regarding the data on the funds of the Professional Rehabilitation Fund and the employment of people with disabilities where exactly the following means are seen. Since 2005. 52 million by 2009, or 30.10. 80 million. It is also incorrect that there is no cooperation with NGOs. For the fifth year in a row, the Ministry has implemented a project to introduce a personal assistant institute for people with the most difficult type and degree of disability, and the project is implemented in collaboration with 64 associations of persons with disabilities from 19 counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75887	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75888	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I've noticed a number of incorrect allegations that I'll look back on just a few. My colleague Škulić said that the Social Care Act we fell from horse to donkey, that chaos in relation to persons, but also that social care reform fell into the water and that the Social Care Act is a step backwards. This is an incorrect colleague Škulić, and you are best denied by the President of the Community of Persons with Disabilities on the occasion of May 3rd, so the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities where it says that this bill, the law adopted on social care, does not abolish any acquired rights, introduces some new ones for persons with disabilities such as an inclusive supplement, etc., the unique body of art, is all stated naturally. I agree with you that there is a need to double the efforts to activate the potential of disabled persons in this regard, but it should also be consistent. So I'm kind of saddened that you weren't so loud at the time of the coalition government when they were cut off, the rights of Croatian wartime wartime disabled, the right to a special 50% allowance was abolished, the procedures for repealing and abolishing the status of Croatian wartime disabled people, etc. Reimbursed by the judgment of the Administrative Court, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75889	Thank you. Correction by Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75890	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I have to correct really in a whole series of incorrect allegations, but I would say that the whole report needs to be corrected because it turned into a political pamphlet, and an extremely good report why I thank the attorney for the disabled. It is incorrect to say in the education system that it is incorrect to say that nothing has happened in the education system. First of all, a whole series of adjustments provided in the education system as well as in other ministries. I have to tell you about the fact that personal assistants can only get privileged persons or through a relationship is incorrect, because over 550 personal assistants are certainly not obtained through a relationship. And there's something else I need to tell you. I'm sorry you weren't at the thematic session of the Committee on Science and Education and Sport when it discusses precisely people with disabilities in higher education, when we tried to solve a whole series of problems and make positive decisions about what will happen to regular students about people with disabilities in order to improve their way of studying. And we had that about a month or two ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75891	Thank you. At 10.55, the time for 10 minutes will expire. And now it's the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75892	Your Honor, Mr. President, Ms. Attorney General, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDSSB Club will support this report on the work of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2010. The report is very comprehensive, understandable and shows not only problems but also points to possible ways of solving them. Therefore, this report is commendable. The government of the Republic of Croatia brought in June 2007. The national strategy for equating opportunities for persons with disabilities from 2007 to 2015 with the aim of progress and further strengthening the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities, and confirming the right of all citizens to participate equally in all segments of society and to have their legal and constitutional rights uninterrupted. The task is to bring national strategies in line with all policies of action in the field of protection of persons with disabilities with reached standards at global level and with all trends aimed at ensuring that all areas of life and action are open and accessible to persons with disabilities. The aim of the national strategy is to make Croatian society more sensitive and adapted to the necessary changes in favour of equating the opportunities of persons with disabilities or to create conditions for their active inclusion and equal participation in society, respecting native dignity and respecting specific interests, and preventing any discrimination and strengthening of all forms of social solidarity. The law defines specific obligations for both the county and the cities and municipalities, for example regarding the care of pre-school children, education, health care, transport connections, etc. and the national strategy of these commitments is uniquely accessible when it comes to the holders of individual activities. In each case, therefore, regardless of the legal obligation as operators, units of local and regional (regional) self-government have been identified. According to the Croatian Institute of Public Health in the Republic of Croatia, more than 511 thousand people with disabilities are about 60% of men and about 40% of women, making up about 11.5% of the total population in the Republic of Croatia. The highest number of people with disabilities is 54% in the working age. It is also possible to notice that disability is present in all age groups, while children are present in 6.7%. The largest number of people with disabilities has a residence in the City of Zagreb and Split-Dalmatia County and in these two counties lives about 30% of the total number of people with disabilities. The largest number of people with disabilities in the total population of the county has Krapina-Zagorska County, with the largest prevalence in the children's age in Međimurje County, in the working age of Krapina-Zagorje while at the age of 65, the largest prevalence is in Split-Dalmatia County. In Osijek-Baranja County on 13 December 2010, there were 35 thousand 910 persons with disabilities of which 22 thousand 572 men and 62.9% and 13 thousand 338 women and 37.1% respectively and thus persons with disabilities account for 10.9% of the total population of Osijek-Baranja County. On this occasion, I would also refer to a few more data regarding the problems of persons with disabilities when it comes to Osijek-Baranja County, wanting not only to compare this county with other counties in Croatia but also to point out that some specificities that we can find as well as other counties. The largest number of people with disabilities in Osijek-Baranja County, 20 thousand 985 or 58.4%, is working age. The disability is present in all age groups, and in 7.4% it is also present in children's age from 0 to 19 years. If you consider the number of persons with disabilities in the total population of the county according to the age groups, you can see that Osijek-Baranja County is below the average for the total prevalence, and the prevalence of older than 65 years, while for the working age and child age is something below average. 76.1 persons with disabilities according to available data in education have not completed primary school or has only primary school education. 18.3% has medium professional equipment, while 2% are persons with high or higher expertise. Special education is found in 3.6% of people with disabilities. In Osijek-Baranja County, 77.4% of people with disabilities according to the data available in education have not completed primary school or has only primary school education. 17.3 has an ESS while 1.9% with high or high professional equipment. Special education has already been said in just over 3% of people. According to the newly formed base of persons with disabilities in Osijek-Baranja County, 506 employees are temporarily making permanent persons with disabilities with 67% share of men and 33% of women's share. The most common calls for people with disabilities are NKV worker, trader, car mechanic and machine shop. The largest number of people exercise their disability rights through HZMO and in Osijek-Baranja County, a thousand 990 children are entitled to appropriate forms of education, with a higher number of boys around 60% of 7658 people with disabilities, so about 20% of the total number is skilled in the welfare system. In Osijek-Baranja County, 6267 people live with disabilities and 942 people who have the consequences of World War II or are civilian disabled wars and porn. For many years, Osijek-Baranja County has been taking special care of people with special needs in such a way as to create conditions of access to all health institutions in the jurisdiction of the county, that the programme of removing architectural barriers for people with disabilities covers most primary and secondary schools in the jurisdiction of the county, that civil society programmes and projects aimed at helping people with disabilities, harmonising everyday difficulties and that projects to remove architectural barriers are launched and within the county space. Five people with disabilities were employed in the county's administrative bodies. It also encourages employment of persons with disabilities, and for the third year in a row the county has financially supported the project of the work occupation of the protégé of the Association Inclusion within which the three protégés of the association perform both maintenance and the yard of Osijek-Baranja County in short working hours, adapted to their working skills. As the final provisions of the national strategy are set out, all bodies in charge of implementing the national strategy measures shall be obliged to include the implementation of the measures in their annual plans and to provide for the means to implement them each year. However, experiences from Osijek-Baranja County show that the main barrier in implementing this obligation is the fact that most units of local self-government are limited by budgetary means. Finally, although the Ombudsman’s report on the work of persons with disabilities has been drawn up in an unusual way through citizens’ enquiries and complaints, the Ombudsman in this report on about 250 pages presents almost all the problems related to the integration of persons with disabilities in all areas of life. The report shows that the Ombudsman’s office has taken up a number of activities during the reporting period, indicating the problems with which people with disabilities live. But the report also makes it clear that there is still a lot of work ahead of all bodies, both state and local, to bring people with disabilities closer to the possibilities of other citizens. The report also points to a number of problems among which I will set several examples. It's visible, for example. that it is still not clearly defined enough which is the relevant document to prove the status of persons with disabilities, whether it is a solution of the Centre for Social Care, a solution of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute or the Croatian Employment Service or perhaps the finding of a disability commission. The report also makes it clear that the rules at national level are highly inconsistencies, but also in relation to international documents that the Republic of Croatia is signatories. It is also known that until a few years ago there was no established register of disabled persons. It is also important to say that there is a great burden on ensuring different needs for people with disabilities in local self-government units, which brings people with disabilities to an unequal position in different areas of the Republic of Croatia. The report shows that, for example, personal assistants provide students with disabilities while most cannot. Also, the special standard in kindergartens of some local self-government units can be provided until others can do so. For example, when providing transport for disabled persons, so-called ‘disability’ is present. project financing which is not good because, after the completion of the project, its continued sustainability has not been ensured. According to the report, most of the complaints by persons with disabilities referred to welfare and pension insurance systems. Logically, the question arises which is why. Probably an important part of the reason lies also in the fact that the majority of people with disabilities are based on these systems, or are users of so-called. social aid or they're retired. Very few people are employed, i.e. very few people with disabilities are looking for a job. The barriers to high school records, especially colleges, are particularly pronounced, from architectural barriers to the lack of education of teaching staff for working with disabled persons to lack of family awareness of the need for education of people with disabilities, which gives them far greater chances on the labour market by all indicators. And rights that can be achieved by persons with disabilities or, for example, employers who hire such persons are insufficiently transparent and need to be presented more media. For example. rights that can be achieved in employment from the Professional Rehabilitation and Employment Fund. However, it should be noted that certain positive shifts have been made since the first strategy for equating the opportunities of persons with disabilities in 2003, especially by setting up the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities. As mentioned in this report, it is most done in the area of removing architectural barriers. A network of civil society organisations has also been well developed to ensure conditions for normal life for these persons, but clearly more resources should be provided for the financing of the same associations. In the field of employment, some shifts have also been made, and the fact is that the district offices of the employment office have had a job adviser for disabled persons, because I will also point out for example the Osijek-Baranja County, the number of people since the introduction of an adviser in the Osijek-Baranja County in 2010 for the first three months until 31 March was eight people, and during the same period this year, 24 people with disabilities were employed by the end of the 3rd month. A large number of students are integrated into regular education programmes, but it is very important to highlight the state's job in ensuring equal opportunities in achieving the rights of disabled persons in all areas of the Republic of Croatia. For example, in order for persons with disabilities in all areas of the Republic of Croatia to have equal ability to care for kindergartens and equal education opportunities and the like, to be a personal assistant, in particular a computer, a sign language translator and the like, minimum standards should be provided from the state budget in order not to make it conditionally harder to be a person with disabilities. in Osijek than in Zagreb or even more difficult in a rural area where much of the rights established for such persons are practically inaccessible, such as physical therapy. These are just some examples of this exhaustive report. And in the end, I can't, not commend the lawyer's work when it comes to handling certain complaints from the field. I was particularly impressed by the example you cited on page 113 of the report and your thinking and attitude in connection with the complaint by the party that the competent social care centre has initiated the process of deprivement of business ability. On this example, the Ombudsman showed an envious level of both objectivity and professionalism, but also humanity. In particular, it is important to conclude that from the available data collected from the territory of the Republic of Croatia there is a visible existence of inappropriate practice of mass deprivement of persons with psychological impairment and complete depravation, which directly violates the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. For the sake of all this, I repeat once again that the HDSSB Club supports this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75893	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. And the first in line is the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75894	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney General. Here and this is actually what's the point of all the reports, and even this day yours is actually a failure of a system that is visible and a person with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. Therefore, it is evident that through the Report a violation of the basic rights of children with developmental difficulties is evident, and so is the person with disabilities. So, of course, every counselor and you have a very difficult job, and you get a growing number of objections, or our fellow citizens, are making their own troubles. I support the report, of course, because you spoke openly about problems, system failures, and we see, in fact, that from this year, or last year's report, we have an increase of as much as 40% of the remarks you've actually received from our fellow citizens. The areas you list are very wide and I will actually, I will stick with actually only health care or education, the area of health care and the area of education. It is also visible from this Report you have actually shown data about employees of people with disabilities in cities and counties and we see that they are actually devastating, and also accessibility of the Public Administration Office which actually reads to us all a report here in the Parliament and everyone in local self-government and regional self-government. Every time this report actually awakens our conscience. Here you can see that, the Office has also proposed 222 initiatives of which 14 initiatives were forwarded to the resolution in 2011. The most common areas where people with disabilities complain about violations of their rights are quite similar to those in previous reports, which are areas of social protection, then accessibility, areas of pension insurance, the area of justice, etc. etc. I said I'd actually stay in health care, health care and education. There are still mental health problems prolonging. I think it's even generated. Then early intervention. Then this need for rehabilitation was the spinal injury you mentioned, any damage to hearing and vision. There is no systematic concern about mental health and, unfortunately, oral health. I am not sure whether your report or any of these reports surprised me when one case was solved in such a way that someone from the ministry was the mother who sued that her child was not entitled to protection, health care in terms of oral health, in such a way that that mother, or that child, was put before others. And it says there that's how the case was solved. It is not solved because they are not solved, that of course all other children who are waiting for such solutions, or who have the same problem. I would like to say one more thing about people with intellectual, or mental impairments who are not on a valid list of persons for a commission where the percentage of physical damage is determined, and that is why such a person remains unable to exercise his or her rights with grounds of disability, or our system does not recognise them as persons with disabilities. The possibility that they are on such lists gives them the opportunity to seek the rights that it means are being disabled in this way. I'd like to say one more thing about education education. I'm not sure if it's by school, whether the old rules on schooling students with developmental difficulties are used under the new Law of Education and Education. On the other hand, if there is a school will to include students with developmental difficulties, there is a lot of discrepancies in the procedure of providing certain forms of support. Some schools are still not really clear procedures, are not clear about the competences of certain institutions and systems of course, obtaining the necessary consent, etc. etc. When, of course, this is all joined and weak financial situation in local self-government, then we see that we cannot actually talk about the right of children with developmental difficulties, or that there is no equal education for all students throughout the Republic of Croatia. And you, Madam Attorney-General, were talking today about inclusive education from kindergartens on, that is, assistants in class. The need for assistants is getting bigger. As in local self - administration, I have very often had requests for new ones. We recently had a College of Directors, Directors of Primary Schools, so we are reporting how many new entries we have, etc. get more and more needs, i.e. an increasing number of children who need assistants in the follow-up. But I wonder how, how do I get them? Whether or not, volunteers are coming forward to work. But can I at all? It's all on the edge, because it's not systematically solved, and that's exactly why we can't. The rules have not been passed, there are no clear mechanisms, there are no clear regulations, and unfortunately all of this depends on the sensitivity of the school, on the sensitivity of us who are in local self-government, or on the financial power of that kind, about it. I would like to say one more thing, and you also mentioned the social and medical model for disability, i.e. the fact itself, when we have damages that without looking at environmental factors are of course not enough to assess or determine disability as predicted by the social model of disability. In fact, the medical model ignores the fact that despite the damage, a certain percentage of the ability and ability to perform activities in a different way than boredom remain. The social model of disability predicts that the rational adaptation of the environment and the support of an independent life as well as the compensation fees that you yourself have said, the same opinion, that very often they must not actually rely on property censorship because it is not good that they actually rely on it. If they were actually to cover the cost of damage and in this way disability should be reduced to the minimum. I'd like to talk more about autistic, autistic, or autistic, or autistic problems. I think there's an insufficient number of all available experts. The parents of autistic children are very often alone, they also resort to private logos, defecologists, etc., very often hospitals do not have an employee defecologist or a working therapist who are necessary in working with such children. There is also weak communication between institutions because, you always have a dilemma about whether a school for children with special needs and then, in this way, one of them says either inclusion in others, or inclusion, but very often you have the opinion that children should be included in specialised institutions. Of course, that closes the possibility of progress. And now you know there's somewhere between institutions is always not good communication, and also between institutions and parents unfortunately. I can see that I'm starting a red light, but it's very short. In autistics, I think their basic right is damaged, and that's people with autism who don't even have the right to an accurate diagnosis. Because there isn't a team that will accurately diagnose people with autism. And that's where the problems and problems between parents, institutions, schools and so on come from. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75895	Thank you very much. I'm asking you all to hold on to your time or it'll be too long. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First distinguished representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75896	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct my colleague, and I'm sorry that after this kind of good report she immediately began with one of her conclusions that this report reflects that the system is not working. I have not received such an impression from the Ombudsman’s report or reading this report because it is indeed evident from this report that the most common areas of violation of the rights of persons with disabilities are presented. On the other hand, you did not understand the mission of the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities because it is indeed a link between persons with disabilities, civil society and institutions that can systematically solve the problems of persons with disabilities. And the general goal is to protect human rights people with disabilities, not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75897	Thank you. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I noticed this inaccurate quote from my colleague, Shimac-Bonacic. So it's not true that this report also shows that it's a reflection of system failure. It's absolutely incorrect. And the other thing is, so this is a very clear comprehensive report that shows, of course, the area where it should work and make improvements. But it seems to me that somehow the system didn't work during the coalition government, you understand. When the rights of all those whom I have listed were severed. But, for example, Furthermore, non-compliance of disability and interest with the cost of living has subsequently had to be paid back 21 million kuna, etc. And I must remind you that a personal assistant was introduced in 2006 when 77 were personal assistants, and today there are 550. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75899	Thank you very much. And we have one replica, the esteemed representative of Shima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75900	Thank you very much. Well, actually, the meaning of these reports can come down to two points. One point is actually to point out the problems of irregularities that have been done and to encourage the institutions of the state to do their job. The other thing is that the second point is to sensitize the public to problems in this particular disability case. However, I do not know how we will satisfy this function in the coming time since it is on, I would dare say that the agenda points for this session, or for this part of the session, are in a certain way complex cynic. Why? Because last night's first point debated in this sequence was the Attorney General's Law, where we abolish the Ombudsman's office for disabled persons, or we include him in the General Attorney's Office. So, by abolishing the general special defenders, we come into a situation that never in the House in this way, at least in due course, we will not debate in this way. So neither will we be able to sensitize the public, nor will we be able to encourage institutions to do their job. It's a shame that a model that hasn't even revived the de facto, which is only two years old, is actually being abolished. So the cynicism is being looked at in that we first discussed in the first reading of the law that we abolished the special defences, and then after that we will hear the last reports of the three special attorneys. And we will never, at least soon as I say, discuss it that way. So, so far, we have had the opportunity to discuss these problems four times, so problems of violating basic and fundamental human rights. Unfortunately, we won't be able to do it anymore. I hope the government didn't mean to rationalise actually this system at the expense of human rights levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75901	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75902	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague you said actually and you're right. You're right when you said that this way shows the cynicism of our government because it's being saved on things, I'd call it the bassion of democracy, because every lawyer gets reports of violations of rights from certain areas. If someone removes such institutions in my opinion, it's actually a violation, i.e. incurring democracy. And as to whether or not it is, whether or not they are a violation of all rights is. Both in the health care system and in the education system where I am in my discussion instructions there is actually a violation of the rights of persons with disabilities and especially children with developmental difficulties. So everything stays local, and I wonder again where the system went? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75903	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. The guest of Gordana Sobol is next. No, I don't. Thank you. Then it's time for the distinguished representative, Gyurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75904	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Madam Attorney General. I'm unusually glad you're here today. And by reading your comprehensive and truly quality report, we can all be satisfied, so we have to say that it's one of the few reports that we've received that specifically separate recommendations from you as attorneys. That way, of course, it can be easier to manage and much easier in some cases and react. At the beginning of my debate, I would like to say something that many people have forgotten a little bit, and that is that the National Strategy for equating opportunities for people with disabilities from 2007 to 2015, which is in the area of 2-8 rights of protection and protection against violence and abuse, and one of the measures in this chapter has also been presented by the institution of this time by the Advocate General, which we are pleased with for people with disabilities. The Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities has been elected under the Ombudsman's Law for Persons with Disabilities NN 107/07. and she took office on July 1st, 2008 and I won't forget those moments I have to say it was a little personal here with my colleague Lukacic, and also with our colleagues and colleagues from the party but especially the prime minister who was anxious to do so and finally get another empowerment, another stronger support in society. Thus, persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia have been given the mechanism to directly address human rights through which they can defend their rights more and more effectively at a high political level and influence the decision-making that affects their lives. By establishing an independent body whose primary task is to monitor, promote and protect the rights of persons with disabilities to this particularly vulnerable group of Croatian citizens, additional visibility is needed in the human rights protection system. This also respects the fact that the violation of the right of a person with disabilities is a violation of their fundamental human rights. This practice of the Republic of Croatia has been particularly highlighted and praised by many delegates during the debate on a universal report on the state of human rights at the United Nations session of the Human Rights Council held in Geneva in 2010. Here I would say what else in reality has been done in Croatia, which this government has done to strengthen the position and the defence attorneys, but also strengthen people with disabilities. We must, of course, say that back in 2007, existing as attorneys of a disabled person has gained a stronger role in our society. We have started looking at people differently since 2004, and another atmosphere in society has been achieved. Why? Because they have had the strength and courage to come out, say, to point out the problem this moment you exist as their attorney since 2007 they have had someone to address for advice, to stand by, to point out the problems that, of course, still bother them as we do in society. What I think is, but since I have a lot of friends and friends as a person with disabilities, I don't look at them with some barrier in behavior, in education, in their art work, in anything other than accessing them as individuals, as I will be as human as any other colleague and colleague or friend or friend. But what I think is important and what is done is to sign the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Faculty Protocol with the Convention has committed itself to improving the quality of life of persons with disabilities in all areas of their life. The Convention was the cornerstone of the adoption of the National Strategy for Equalisation of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities from 2007 to 2015. The government and co-ordinator of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity has made significant progress in achieving institutional and other assumptions of successful dealing with the family and professional challenges of today's family, children and youth and people with disabilities. For the purpose of developing services for disabled persons, it is aimed at including them in the life of the community on an equal footing with others. The government and the competent ministries in cooperation with disabled associations, I said just before that I'm not repeating now. The Ministry of Health and Social Care has signed the value of 60 million funds with more than 300 associations, and the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity 40 million kuna with more than 100 associations. Associations are partners in the implementation of various projects aimed at disabled persons, with a prominent personal assistant service insurance project important. I've been talking, and I think it's one of the best projects. In 2006, we had 78 personal assistant users. Here's the year 2011 we have 550 users. A total of 90 million 477 thousand were spent from 2006 to 2011. But I would say that apart from this large amount of money, the role of a personal assistant is something that gives special strength to people with disabilities, to that is their other movement, their other eyes, these are their other ears and simply give them the opportunity to communicate in one more accessible way in the world. However, the project of an interpreter of the Croatian sign language is also important. Here we see the lady in front of us and how much it means that I can follow here and the sessions of the Parliament and the Diaries. I'm sure there are also certain complaints that there should be more shows in the media that would have a sign interpreter, that is, for various interventions. But we have, here are some projects aimed at supporting children with developmental difficulties, then assistants in teaching, it's very important for children. There was a time when you couldn't even talk about it. Some children as disabled people were normally unable to go to school, today it is not, today they integrate into society, integrate from kindergarten to school. Of course, there's still a lot to work on, but that's why you exist, too, so we exist here, and there's a government that has a lot of hearing, especially I have to say, and it's always kind of taken wrong, in the period 2004-2010, which has been done yet. It's this accessibility, it's very important. When, I think it was in Karlovac or Sisak when she was vice president in 2004. The government and the minister then joined people with disabilities and with large transparency asked to ensure the accessibility of persons means to all public institutions, state-run, theatres. Of course it's hard when you get somewhere and you can't get in, it's hard for all of us, especially for you. And I think that in that area very much has been done and that you need to do more and you need to point to every single problem and that's true. But what we have to tell the truth, of course, is, it's been a lot since 2004 to 2010 for a project to address accessibility to persons with disabilities. A total of 8 billion and 800,000 kuna were spent, and an additional amount of nearly 500 thousand kuna was secured in 2011 for the adjustment of 82 facilities for public purposes. So today what is very important will also be needed in all the architectural solutions of new buildings as well as taking care of accessibility for people with disabilities. Another important thing I would like to stress, it comes from the Ministry of Health and Social Care. This is an inclusive addition as money support for disabled persons with the aim of equating their opportunities for social inclusion. The level of support...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75905	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75906	Here I am, thank you very much. So it's just, you know, you know, we've already talked about this second part of what I'd like to point out, which is fostering and...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75907	Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75908	Household, special foster care, is also meant for children with developmental difficulties who will have the possibility of fostering in a good way, to stay in the community, not to be most often fostered by people from foreign countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75909	Thank you very much. Please stick to the time so I don't have to warn you. We have three replicas. First, he's a respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75910	Thank you very much. So I must express my satisfaction and agree with my colleague, an esteemed colleague, that in these two years, the purpose and purpose of the existence of this attorney's office has been demonstrated. I also hope that she, along with me, as we shared joy and happiness when we formed this attorney's office, will actually do everything to make sure that this attorney's office has shown no sense, or that it doesn't drown in the general defence and for the sake of its friends and because it said itself that it makes sense. I think it's politically insane. At the time when we have the monitoring of Chapter 23 go actually change this story that refers significantly to human rights because we will no longer be in this House when we end this ombudsman's office to talk about the way we've talked about these problems so far, and not to mention all the other problems that concern others to say that to vulnerable groups and relationships. So I'm hoping that together, we'll be against the Law on the Attorney General who abolishes de facto this attorney's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75911	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75912	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague Lucin, unfortunately, is constantly talking in the media about abolishing, drowning, so when this occurs even before the bill comes out, we already have it in front of us, it's simple to talk about mergers, it's not going to lose its identity, it's not going to lose its personality and its function in such an attorney's office. She'll still be the lawyer for people with disabilities, the deputy okay, but I'll tell you how to tell you people with disabilities. But you see, the thing is, if there's always fog running and there's always talking to someone, someone's gonna shut you down, so of course there's one thing that's created, then I'd say illogical hysteria in society, and that's not in anyone's interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75913	Thank you. Second replica, Honorable representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lucin, here's exactly what you took away from me, that's exactly what I was going to say, and I'm going to repeat it maybe in a slightly different way. My colleagues, the twilight were finely said, you had a nice discussion, very constructive. You commended the government and this warm co-operation between the government and the D.A.'s office, on one understanding of the mutual, of the great support that the government led with Mrs. Kosor gave to the Attorney General. But that beautiful, sweet-talking story stops on Friday at noon when there will be a vote and when you and your counseling club will raise your hand to abolish this attorney general's office, more precisely how would you like to say the addition of this counsel to the attorney general. Here's me writing what the D.A.'s Attorney said about this attachment. He says: "Respected, the D.A.'s Office for Persons with Disabilities remains on the stand and advocates the independence of the Ombudsman's institutions for persons with disabilities and we oppose any attachment of the Office of the Public Attorney for the simple reason that it is not in the interest of persons with disabilities." That's what this lady downstairs said, she must know her job and know what she's doing. How much you respect her and the D.A.'s office says that you didn't actually listen to the arguments that led to the attachment. You didn't listen to any counsel, not just a lawyer for people with disabilities. And the other thing I wanted to do was, in your debate, you said an outrageous sentence that I couldn't really believe I heard because my colleagues behind me told me you said that. You said this: we have a lot of friends and friends who are people with disabilities and access them as human beings. ... So what do you have to approach them as Martians, like animals? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, they're human beings, it's... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75915	The reply to the replica, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75916	Thank you. Thank you, fellow Members, but what your colleagues said back there, they said it was a little ominous. I said to approach without fences like any other. It's one thing for me to approach anyone in good faith, without any badness, without any objections, to some who are the least evil. And what you said, this lady downstairs, that's Mrs. Slunjschak. She's our lawyer. Of course we're proud of her. It's not her till Friday, don't talk like that, don't fool the public. You keep talking about something that deceives the public. You smile, you grin, you do nothing to make that happen. Don't let the public know it's not you, it's another colleague. And as to whether or not I read the report? I am all the attorneys of the special staff attorney and special counsel for gender equality, especially the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and special counsel for children because I am very interested in this. I'm personally integrated into some of the cases that are, but you'll hear it in further discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75917	Thank you. And the third replica, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75918	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I am very supportive of your debate, and thank you very much for listing in such short time a whole series of projects and what the Government has done for persons with disabilities since 2004 and here to this day. I'd just like to update here in one part of your debate. You mentioned that associations of persons with disabilities are partners of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that is, the result, this partnership is the result of these projects you spoke of. Your debate also speaks about how well you deal with problems not only you but also other MPs, which means that not only people with disabilities, that they know not only the problems of people with disabilities, but also those with disabilities. It's a way to solve problems. To solve this problem, I must say here you mentioned the government here on several occasions, which is true. But here I have to say that for such a partnership and for such a solution to the problem is common, so one wonderful interaction is that it is due to Prime Minister Kosor who today's disabled people thank for it. We fought hard for a partnership just like that. It was she who, as an opposition representative and as Deputy Prime Minister, walked together with persons with disabilities throughout Croatia, carried banners, warned of violations of the rights of persons with disabilities. So, I support your debate, in which you very well presented everything the government has done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75919	First of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75920	Dear Mr. Vice President, the violation of Rules of Procedure under Article 209. I ask all MPs, fellow MPs and fellow MPs to stick to the agenda. We're not talking about the government's work. We're talking about the Attorney General's report. And refrain from turning the thesis as supported by the Attorney General's Office Report praises the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the Attorney General's report, it is just that a whole series of examples of how we are still facing a series of problems and that everything is so ideal that it would not, when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have not been found in the report. So let's concentrate on the attorney general's report, and on behalf of the club, we've praised the lawyer's work, identifying the problem and offering a solution. But that's what the D.A. did, not Mrs. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75921	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica by the distinguished representative, Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75922	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's my colleague. You said this very nicely about associations. But what we have to say is that today we have our attorney's report and that the government had no interest in establishing the Attorney's Office and didn't want it with disability we wouldn't read this today and we wouldn't accept it and we wouldn't even know more and more of the problems that are. I mean, that's true. It's a fact and it's a lawyer's office, and that's what a lawyer herself is, indeed, a person who has empowered additional people with disabilities. And as far as the association is concerned, you're clearly and well and well said. Personally, that's how I work with some associations. I'm not gonna pick them up now so I don't leave out, but for many years now, it's never been about politics there, it's not about which party you are, I'll tell you more, I'll give you less. But it has always begun with the heart to help everyone as much as possible in situations where it wasn't very smart at all because some of the options in power considered it completely inappropriate, so I don't have much time anymore. I would like to say one more sentence, and this is the letter from the President of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, which he sent congratulating the 3rd May Day of entry into force of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and in which he says in reality that he is particularly pleased that the Republic of Croatia is headed by the current prime minister, then Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity Mrs Kosor was among the first countries to determine full respect for the human rights of persons with disabilities. So it's about the next one. This isn't about politics, it's about desire. It's about sensitivity. It's about a sense of justice and help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75923	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate. And it is up to the distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with your associates. I would like to join all those who have expressed their praise for this report, which is quality and extensive. Since we've got the office and the D.A.'s office, I've kind of been under the impression that things are moving faster and changing. Of course we'd like it to be even faster. Well, that's how it is. I mean, what my colleagues were talking about before, anyway, ending the office as an independent and independent body won't help make things go faster and better. But unfortunately there's nothing we can do about it. In my brief review, however, I would like to talk about something that I consider to be a major problem for people with disabilities, and the problem that has been updated on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament in February of this year. It is about education with a special emphasis on higher education. I believe that it is indeed a matter of praise to the committee president's initiative because education of persons with disabilities is indeed a key prerequisite for their social inclusion, economic independence, and, of course, for living stability and security and independence. So, I think it's an extremely important segment for young people with physical difficulties, but they're mentally healthy. It is without a doubt an extremely important issue for young people and their families because how to educate themselves, so how to study, how to bridge barriers not only architectural but also those mental ones in the heads of some, how to sensitize the public and institutions, and how to create active policies and strategies on their problems, how to encourage the adoption of some strategic documents that would have a foothold for individual targeted activities, how to make a register of students, and all with the aim of facilitating all that the needs of these young people represent. I would say for starters that I believe that the system of education is centralized, which means that a large number of children at the end of their preschool age are forced to separate from their parents, or families, and to engage in the life and work of an institution in one of the county centers that are rarely very far from their home. And if the family has no opportunity to visit them more often, both children and parents are actually forced to face loss and closeness and mutual support and in fact the start of education for these young people is almost equal to the loss of life in the family. So that's something I think the state should solve. When entering the sphere of secondary and higher education, the problem is in a limited choice of profession for a very banal reason, I would say, which is the unadjustment of the institution, the unresolved problem of financing transport and the lack of helpers in the follow-up. Young people with disabilities face problems that are actually very specific, and they are rarely very banal. They need a little money and a lot of goodwill to solve most of their problems. The inaccessibility of which we have little and heard is one of the very important obstacles and I can't be dishonest and say that nothing is done in that sense, but I think it should be much, much more. Because it's for young people who want to educate one of the key problems why they can't. So it's one of the reasons that prevents them from getting involved and participating in community life because they're simply disabled to get out of the house first, moving the streets, entering certain public and private buildings, universities, etc. I think it's something that we really need to work on systematically. Half of the college buildings are inaccessible, that's the data we heard right at that thematic session of the board. In Zagreb, only 36 higher education institutions are fully accessible. Which means the person can move horizontally and vertically. However, 35 is completely inaccessible, and 4 is only partially. Which means it allows for access to the building, but not the vertical launch. Therefore, the problem of movement in the buildings themselves is mostly not solved so that students with disabilities often depend on the well-being of their colleagues who help them move, and only sometimes the management of the university has provided financial resources to help students for a more modest financial amount, right? I think in a law that obliges all public institutions to remove architectural barriers constantly moving deadlines by a certain deadline. It seems to me that in 2007, the deadline was for all the buildings in 2010, and today it is 2015. So will we move that deadline to 2020 in a year or two or five? I just don't think it has to be like that. I read about the various measures that the ministry is therefore financing or implementing, and the measures and programmes aim to ensure therefore scholarships, housing, subsidisation of food, the right to individual costs of transport, to cover the costs of postgraduate studies, etc., etc. So it can't be said that the ministry doesn't have certain programs and projects for disabled students, but what's worth to a young person with disabilities if he wants to study at a university where there's no accessibility? So how do you solve this problem? Here I recall that at a university in Rijeka, an elite was placed exclusively on the initiative of the Association of Students of the History of MALEUS who also collected donations for this elite. Well, I don't think big financial resources were needed, and he solved a huge problem. So the other big problem is transportation. A ride that wasn't solved in a way that should also be done. I think it takes small funds and once again just a little bit of goodwill to solve that problem. Because it's not always the biggest problem of money. Most of the time I seem to miss just good will to make big things happen. I think that the state should actively engage in a way that provides means of transport to students throughout the Republic of Croatia whose needs require it, that it should provide means of recruiting assistance in buildings that do not meet technical conditions and finally wherever it is and whenever possible to provide funds for the adaptation of old buildings, especially those that will probably remain the centre and headquarters of the university. So here I am ending up thinking it would be unfair to say that in the last few years things haven't moved from a dead end and that it hasn't happened. However, I believe you can do a lot more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75925	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75926	Dear colleagues, I think you have properly warned in your debate about almost two opposing policies that exist in education related to persons and children with disabilities and developmental difficulties where on the one hand we have a series of actions that support then we have one set of policies that bring the whole story back one or two steps. I would like to warn that a new decision has been taken on the elements and criteria for enrolment in high school on 30 March of this year, which will prevent many children from enrolling those high school children who, as children with developmental difficulties, might be able to enroll, simply because the decision has changed the way of enrolment, so to say the decision is not made by professional opinion of professional teams, but is left to the directors themselves who have almost unlimited right to decide whether or not to enroll a child. The decision discriminated against children with other developmental difficulties compared to children with physical and mental difficulties, which is directly contrary to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Proclaimed Inclusion. It was abolished in the decision on the entry of children with health problems, so children with plasma, autoimmune diseases, severe diseases that will be prevented from enrolling some normal high school programmes. It also applies to deaf children, blind children. When we talk about studying, it is still a prerequisite for the completion of some four-year high school and for children with developmental difficulties and disability to be able to enroll in colleges. The decision taken in late March at the Ministry of Science on the enrolment of children in high school places most of them on low-paid simple occupations in three-year and short-term programmes. So, I agree with you that many things have been done forward, but many decisions as well as this thing we return not one but almost two steps backwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75927	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75928	My colleague Lugaric, I agree with you I have mentioned two examples and tried to show them that the state is working but not enough. I pointed that out in the case of transport and inaccessibility of buildings. I don't think that one thing and another that I've stated should be a big problem for the state, and I think that's the least you can do for students. And we should consider something that we very often forget that such students actually don't have much and they're not really in every university for objective reasons either. Therefore, the problem of transporting and organising students with disabilities to the university, the van, should absolutely not be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75929	Thank you. The second replica is the esteemed representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I took the replica just to say some things that I often mention in the Croatian Parliament seem important to me. When a political debate is felt, then the important thought that we are actually talking about is lost. I think the question of a person with disabilities is a question of society as a whole. It is not an option for any political party to any ideologies, nothing and that there is no one in the Croatian Parliament or in the Croatian society who is not sensitive to this problem and would not want to do as much and as best as possible. Since the architectural barriers mentioned as a category are mentioned, I am here in a certain way named as an architect, I can say that legislation regulates relations with persons with disabilities and it is important to say non-invalid people as it is often said, because this important difference has made a terrible deal. I can agree with my colleague, Jerkovic, who says something has happened, and that should do much more. You should absolutely do a lot more. Only all our relationships come down as far as they can, which can't be achieved. For reasons that financial problems are still key problems to address this. And the same thing that people with disabilities aren't the ones that we recognize at one point, in one percent, in one society, but we're all potential people with disabilities because of the limitations of our age and the physical condition that we're going to be. That sensitivity is present in all people, and I wouldn't talk about it. But in terms of architectural barriers, a lot has been done, but a lot of things that have been laid down by law have not been realised in practice because of financial constraints. The post office in Split is the main example.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75931	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75932	My dear colleague, I thought the problem of solving architectural barriers was a very big problem that costs a lot. So when I found out that the adaptation of a building and the adjustment in terms of which we're talking about costing even 100 thousand kunas, that's when I concluded that it wasn't really big money and that the state budget shouldn't be a big problem or a big burden. And ever since I found out, I've been looking at this problem differently. So it's done, but it's a fact, and you know it very well that we're constantly changing deadlines. So what we've passed through the law as some kind of imperative is not imperative. The inspections don't do their job. I wonder why inspections don't do their job? So no one can convince me that a bank that works very well and earns extra profits cannot, under the law of the Republic of Croatia, adjust its space to the person with disabilities. Isn't that right? You disagree. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75933	Thank you. And we have the last replica of the distinguished representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75934	Thank you. My colleague Jerkovic praised this report and I remembered that I had been upset a little while ago, so I forgot to praise the report that is truly complete, comprehensive and should be extensive because the problems of people with disabilities are extremely extensive, extremely complex, should be talked about in detail, all citizens and citizens should get to know each other. I'd put an emphasis on work and employment here. So you've talked nicely about obstacles to education, but despite these obstacles, a large part of actually the person with disabilities manages to finish elementary school and high school neatly, and what happens then. Then they come to the labour market and they need to get a job, and we know that today they're very hard to hire and healthy people, I say healthy people under quotes, let alone people with disabilities. Let's say I have information that in my county, in Brod-Posavina County, we have 474 people with disabilities registered in various associations, 11 of them employed. So only 11, that's a really minor number. And what happens then, people are actually aware that they can't work, that they're going to have a very hard time getting a job. If they get a job, it won't be long-term, and they probably won't make a pension. And then it just comes down to people deprive themselves of their business skills, and for the purpose of inheriting family pensions, most often pensions from their parents to ensure their existence and how much decent age. And I actually think it's a key problem because that way the system actually drives people with disabilities into the black labour market because because because of their lack of business ability often if they can find a job they're doing black, it makes them actually deprive themselves of their business ability and it actually takes away their fundamental human rights which I don't think is right and it's a big, big problem to work on, which they need to change from the root.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75935	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75936	Thank you very much. You're right about employment. It should be said that people with disabilities are extremely rarely employed. Unfortunately, this population that has, I would say, the most cost of life falls into the poorest and least educated parts of the population. And even though there are certain measures that should stimulate employers to take to work precisely those persons and certain jobs where people with disabilities have a priority in employment. Unfortunately, it doesn't happen. And then you wonder what's going on, something really bad is going on, and that's the early retirement of a large number of people with disabilities aged 16 to 17 and that's exactly what the report shows. The report shows that the largest number of complaints in the lawyer's office is precisely at the expense of the achievement of pension and social rights. This is one of the reasons why we find politics toward people with disabilities largely wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75937	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's next, the distinguished representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75938	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorney for people with disabilities with associates. Indeed, let me join all of these praises for your extensive report that lies before us, which is really hard work and hard work. Only if we see that 1474 cases have been processed and 222 initiatives have been proposed in the special part and recommendations of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities and all with one goal of improving the situation of persons with disabilities. We have already heard in today's debate that such a person is 10, already 12% we can speak and that the introduction of this institution is increasingly visible, that the public is more and more sensitized and just sensitized to the existence of so many people with disabilities. This institution is in some way a reminder to all other institutions that when making decisions, they must take care of the rights of persons with disabilities. We have seen and heard that the most frequent complaints about violations of social protection rights are a high percentage, 20.8%, then accessibility 12.2% in the second place, the area of pension insurance on the third to 10.2%, labour, justice, employment 9.4%, health care, education, etc., to the existence of relations with discrimination, violence and the media. The Law on Advocates for Persons with Disabilities and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is also behind the work of this office. In the context of legal regulation, it is precisely a question of unifying the methodology of assessing the needs of disabled persons relevant to all systems in which those persons exercise their rights. The vision of the future is to create a society of equal opportunities in all life segments, areas of their action by all age groups. The state budget shows how much is spent on these needs. It was spent in, say, 2010. Nine million kuna for the needs of preschool children's programmes with disabilities. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is funded by transport, doactive equipment, dieting children with difficulties. I can tell you from the example of Bjelovar in which it is visible how much the ministry helps the 5th elementary school that exists in Bjelovar for children with disabilities and as much as it helps the unit of local self-government and helping this workshop that exists in Sirač. For transport, doactic means, say the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in 2010 secured 16 million kuna. So it kind of seems to us all too little, and when we start to add up numbers, then we see that they're not that small. The report shows that there must be a lot of accessibility, especially healthcare facilities. According to your research that affected 226 health institutions 19 have a custom bathroom and toilet or only a toilet. So I come from this profession, so it's kind of impressive when a man sees what that little accessibility is in health institutions. On the other hand, between 2006 and 2010, funds were provided to adapt 63 primary schools and one kindergarten, 23 secondary schools. In 2010 a million kuna was provided in the state budget for these works, thanks to the construction and upgrade of schools in the Republic of Croatia in 2011 7% of fully adapted parent schools and 3% of branch schools, while 26% of primary schools were partially adapted. So, you can see from your report that we have to work on adapting access, but as we've heard from the architect sometimes it's not easy either. We have a national strategy for equating opportunities for people with disabilities from 2007 to 2015 which consists of 15 areas, and one is professional rehabilitation, employment and work. On the basis of the strategy, the responsibility of units of local and regional (regional) self-government was also the creation of local strategies in order to equate opportunities for people with disabilities. Unfortunately, most units failed to fulfil the stated obligation. So, in some ways, he's criticizing us. We have everything, and then we don't do it. Last year, there were 2% of the unemployed people registered at the Croatian Institute are 6255 people with disabilities and it will be very difficult to fix this picture, since we know what crisis we are in, not just us, but the whole of Europe. I would especially refer to the point of independent life and involvement in the community. The Convention gives rise to the same right for all persons with disabilities to live in a community with the right to choose as well as for other persons with the possibility of choosing a place of residence where and with whom they will live, to provide a wide range of services, to provide personal assistance to support life and to join the community with the prevention of isolation and segregation from the community. Unfortunately, concern for people with disabilities is still based on institutional concern. However, they are also developing so - called. outside the institutional service which is indeed to be commended, psycho social rehabilitation services and treatments through forms of daily and occasional stay. It's a big help. Often in some areas, a care home for people, for example, with intellectual difficulties is the only professional institution available to educated staff and the necessary equipment to work with a specific category of disabled persons. And again, I would like to commend a center, the Peace Center in the Rudins, which provides services for example to children and adults with mental retardation from nearby rural areas. Europe has also recognised this work of this home, especially the former director of Ms. Lucia Cikeš, which also established a Lucija Prize for such action and example in the home for all other countries in Europe. It is to praise the adoption of the National Plan for the Deinstitutionalisation and Transformation of Homes of Social Care and Other Legal Persons who carry out social care activities in the Republic of Croatia from 2011 to 2016 and the aim is to reduce the entry into institutions, increase exit from institutions of a new form of care by particularly stimulating family reintegration with equal representation and availability of services in all regions and counties. By 2016, 40% of children with developmental difficulties should be deinstitutionalised and 30% of adults in the primary family or outside of the institutional form of accommodation. The number of providers of permanent and weekly accommodation of state and non-state homes should be reduced, the capacity of homes and other legal persons for children with developmental difficulties should be limited in order to end the deinstitutionalisation of homes with a maximum capacity of up to 30 beds. I really believe we're gonna make it. It should also limit the size of a home for adults with disabilities to up to 70 users of permanent or weekly accommodation. Why would I bring that up? I mention that I just want to point out how important deinstitutionalization is, because the idea is lost that a man with disabilities, a man who's old enough to go to his home, doesn't need to be taken care of anymore. But given the number of people, 10 to 12% of people with disabilities, it really takes an emergency action to do something. Homes should develop individual deinstitutionalisation and transformation plans by the end of 2010. I don't remember finding out if everyone did it. Yeah, that's nice. It also comes from the inclusion or active participation of persons with disabilities in the life of the community. This really means networking of quality outside institutional services and participation of persons with disabilities and in social, cultural. So also political life in the local community in society in one whole and avoid home. And I finally believe that all these activities as well as the activities of your office, Madam Attorney General, will help raise awareness of persons with disabilities and their rights. But as it really recommends and defines the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75939	Thank you. We have four replicas. But before that, I want to thank Mrs. Mirjana Jurisha, who has been here for over two hours and a half, who has translated for people with impaired hearing who can no longer do this now, so we will continue the debate without that translation. Thank you very much. And the real replica is the distinguished representative of Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75940	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's my colleague Caparin, I was really careful and I listened to you and you said such important things, and I'm sure you'll agree, and here's the D.A.'s office here as a recommendation to combat violence. It's something I'd like to talk more about and say more about, that there's violence against women, against children, domestic violence. And as the Ombudsman wrote nicely, the determination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of all state authorities from local to national level is welcomed, that through the permanent and effective cooperation of competent state bodies, institutions and civil society organisations, these negative phenomena are being eradicated, because they are indeed the most insidious forms of social behaviour that destroy the foundations on which the system of values of a community rests. I think it's very important, because domestic violence and violence against women and children have not been talked about at all. And especially when it comes to people with disabilities, it's good to get out of the box, to talk about it. Here I went today and listen to the radio Mrs. Marica Miric, the president of the Union of Distrophy Society and I welcome her this way. She spoke at her workshop that's been going on for two days now, and I think it's going to be a school workshop for parents of children with difficulties or children of dystrophysics. And she talked about another topic that's taboo topic, which is the sexuality of young people, the sexuality of people at all. And that's why I welcome this part of the recommendation, and I welcome that you really singled out in one part of it, and I think it's an important topic to also talk about it in all the negative but of course positive things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75941	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75942	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Namely, I'd agree with your exposure. But I think this government has done a lot in the fight against domestic violence. And I can tell you in relation to Europe that we are somewhere at the top not only of the legislative part, but also of the practical part of that regulation, the procurators as to how we should act, and I think that people in Croatia are really sensitive to the existence of domestic violence. It was once said in my Bjelovar, and there is no violence in us, there is no house for the accommodation of women etc., and when it opened, it was seen that today it was full and that we need more such houses not only in Bjelovar but also elsewhere in Croatia. But domestic violence exists everywhere not only in disabled people, in other categories. One word of domestic violence exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75943	Thank you. We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Caparin, you've spoken a 12% number approximately. It's a big, big number. Let's remember that in the last state, the party and with 10% had all the state policy, and thus 12% today represents one force that needs to be taken into account and that can win a lot. According to my fellow doctors, doctors' friends, at least 50% of people are in a certain way sick and are in the category of people who depend on this or that. I now find it difficult to climb from the square to the worse in this time, what I said at the age. And according to one fellow psychiatrist, only 25% of people in this mental sense are healthy and normal, and 75% are not. That means in this House 40 people are normal, now whether we're inside or who's out remains to be seen. But what I want to say in relation to the report and before my colleague Jerkovic said because this prompted me to question the possibility of 100 thousand kuna, one sum that came out of the sleeve probably. Because I'll pay any money if in my building for the needs of my bride you install the elevator that she can get from her apartment to down, technically it's impossible. Of course private buildings are one story for yourself or more residential buildings. Public institutions are a different story and should be enabled and enabled accordingly. But in relation to the report, it is important to say that there is a lot of what seems to be what the report does and what people do, not institutionalally, but they do from their own feelings, but they have no need for political or social marketing of what they do but do because they feel the need for it. And that's what needs to be apostrophe that one sensitivity is getting bigger and bigger and that's why both legislative and practical is getting more and more present. Among other things, the need grows, even economically reflected by many hospices, and for people with multiple sclerosis or I don't know the strokes that require certain care that I can't get in my own house or in another even if they have a lift.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75945	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75946	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I mean, I wanted to emphasize that percentage 12%. It's a really large number of our residents, and you see what's the last data of 4 million and 200 grand. And so we don't have to create any barriers. It is the attorney-general who needs and who is really doing a good job of sensitizing the public about the existence of 12% of such people who need to be maximumly involved in both social and cultural and political life. And that is why I particularly stressed the importance of deinstitutionalisation and action of all of us together.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75947	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75948	Thank you very much. So, colleagues Caparin, in your debate, you mentioned the obligation to develop local strategies for equating the opportunities of disabled people. I must say that this is precisely one of the important documents, and in order to develop the local community more adequately, so that people with disabilities and there can fully exercise their rights, given that local strategies are modelled by national strategy and by the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. That's exactly the kind of document, so one local strategy is created, and the obligation to adapt objects to people with disabilities, and I have to say that the state has provided funds for it. At the position of the family ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity, a million-and-a-half kuna was provided this year to adapt the facilities to disabled persons. The family ministry is launching tenders that can be contacted by local communities for object adjustment, but here we also have the knowledge that very few small environments, small towns, appear in these competitions. And the state has the best will, the government has provided funds to help them, to give them certain resources to make certain facilities that are most important for people with disabilities adapt. I think it is also very important from this local strategy that the very people with disabilities who live there in a certain way, so to say by one education, the leaders of the local community are forced to make that strategy to enable their members to have a better quality of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75949	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75950	... Namely, I wanted to point out, you've noticed the importance of local colleagues [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75951	Make yourself comfortable, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75952	I wanted to stress the importance of local self-government precisely in what we are talking about evenly developing the entire Republic of Croatia and so on in this section as regards persons with disabilities. You remember very well and you yourself were involved in solving the problem of the workshop "Sir" where a large number of people with disabilities work, but who cannot make production such as completely healthy persons and, of course, are expected to help units of local self-government, or county. In the area of my county, it's been very much done, from the very access to, say, the MUP, so the hospital has access to the county itself, by installing the elevators, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75953	Thank you. And it is next to the distinguished representative Neda Klaric, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Caparin you really did very well in the time allowed to walk actually Colloquially spoken through a complete report. Also, here goes the replica of our colleague, Mrs. Lukacic, on your exposure when she mentions local strategy and sensitivity to people with disabilities. But I would also point out and actually that key point, I would do it, so I'm experiencing it, and that's the National Strategy of Equal Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities. And I am glad that you and as a doctor have finally estimated that this is an important foothold that we have here in this strategy from 2007 to 2015 aims to create a basis for improving the rights of persons with disabilities. It is also important to say that we will have a unique body of art which will therefore be uniform for all persons with disabilities in all systems to exercise equal rights. And that assumes making a unique list of damages, and also a way to determine disability. In addition, we also have a new Social Care Act which includes an inclusive supplement as a cash compensation for persons with disabilities precisely with the same goal of equating them in their opportunities for social inclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75955	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75956	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for your replica. And I am pleased that you too have seen the importance of this national strategy from 2007 to 2015 which is truly thorough and which provides one real possibility of equating opportunities for people with disabilities. But what really worried me was that the local self-government units didn't act on what the D.A. also warned about, according to this strategy itself, made a strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75957	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75958	Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am going to join this general agreement on accepting this comprehensive and comprehensive report and of course I will ultimately support it. Therefore, the report is set out in 6 parts, and in the first introductory part, among other things, the Ombudsman quotes definitions of persons with disabilities in different systems in the Republic of Croatia and social provisions under the UN Convention of Persons with Disabilities. And that is why I would repeat the definition under the UN Convention of persons with disabilities who say that "persons are involved in disability in those who have long-term physical, mental, intellectual and sensory damage that can prevent their full and effective participation in society on an equal footing with others". I will add to this that persons with disabilities have, of course, the potential of these damages mentioned by the Advocate General that, of course, we are all obliged to activate them from the Ministry of Health's Professional Rehabilitation Fund and, of course, all that is mentioned in earlier discussions, so on and on units of local self-government, etc. Furthermore, it is also necessary to say that given this number being kept in the register of persons with disabilities set up in 2001, this percentage of 12% really says a lot that in that part should certainly be set up accordingly. The second part is the statistical representation I would say is the conduct of the office which is also the most important part of the report. I think it's a lot of talk. So, a thousand 474 cases and an open 418, I mean, it's all quite said so that I can and wouldn't repeat that part because it really covered everything. But the third part is shown the number of cases per county where it would be necessary to look around a little bit. Of course, there were the largest number of actions related to the City of Zagreb and further various counties. And I'd say my county of Koprivnica-Crissing is not in this upper part perhaps but in the lower part. I believe that's enough about the action and the action in this area seems. I would mention an institution... a housewife who also helps in that part and I think we should keep moving forward but also I want to say that units of local self-government that may not stand some things that in the villages don't seem to be in local self-government units. I'd say that's not the case. In villages, however, there seems to be enough because we have one very large and good view of the terrain and we know where we can and how to do it. And the other thing may not be mentioned here today enough of the roles of family, so please, there are such wonderful families that are very well participated in this system. If we remind ourselves that over 30% of these statistics are locomotor damage, further these neurologically, etc. I think the role of the family will certainly be welcomed and accepted. I really believe that there are more environments especially in the countryside where the family is like that. And as for the units of the local self-government, I will also mention, in today's day when many environments compete how many kilometers of the eaten Jaeger I will be, please, well-eaten Jaeger at various events. And I'll tell you gentlemen my unit of local self-government every year provides for people with disabilities on my pearl of nature to Ješko's association, an art colony for people who activate these potentials of these friends. These are the meetings that look forward to and we all participate and we traditionally celebrate them every year and then we make an exhibition for Christmas. That confirms that part. The report further mentions all areas of behaviour, gender, age, areas I don't think I need to repeat that everything is quite clear. But surely my subject of interest is health care, a health system in which I want to say a few words about the health system. This is what the D.A. mentioned, therefore, and these thematic sessions of the Health and Social Care Committee where the spinal damage and the need for a joint rehabilitation site were mentioned. I think it's been repeated for years as one problem and I think that part is good. There was another thematic session to be mentioned for the sake of justice organised by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of persons with neo-muscular damages and where it was very clear also about the Foundation for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, positive examples have been cited and should indeed be welcomed. Well, it may be necessary in this place to mention the health care in the house. Health care in the house needs to be mentioned. I think she's a little neglected and neglected and I in that part of the health care in the house certainly want to point out as a positive example and rehabilitation and help and I think we should continue in that part. It speaks of the functioning of the health system and in those environments where it is not available let's say that it is often said. But it may also be good to say about orthopedic aids. I've been in the system for many years and I've been following the difficulties of being available to help, but today it's simplified. The competent family doctor makes it very clear in the system that the information is very clear and easy to get orthopaedic aids. I think these positive examples should be highlighted. This entire report also speaks in a special way about Ms. Attorney General's activities on which I congratulate. So it's detailed it's divided into different areas. Activities are related to housing, mobility, accessibility of persons with disabilities, educational education, employment, work, pension insurance, health care, etc. The proposals are also contained here, so amendments and additions to legal regulations, recommendations to take measures aimed at improving the situation of disabled people. So, as far as everything is concerned, I support this report, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75959	Thank you. We have four replicas. First is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75960	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Milinkovic, you have explained nicely to him how it is in the units of local self-government, and I must say that Koprivnica-Kristevnica County is one of the examples of good adjustment even though there is still something to do, but the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County has also issued a accessibility guide from which we can clearly and clearly see what it is adapted, which should still be adapted, etc. And as for the health system that you were talking about, it is absolutely certain that there is much more to be done in this area about home care, about orthopaedic aids and all other parts of healthcare, although we must say that people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia still enjoy a high level of health care and most people with disabilities with the most severe damage are free from paying so-called. The participations and that when we passed this law in this House, we saw that we really did it for those who needed it most and in the best way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75961	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75962	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Lukačić, I'm glad you've noticed these positive examples that happen in Koprivnica-Crysing County. Of course we mustn't stop at them but, of course, continue to work and improve, that's for sure. But the health system is in any case specific and one particularly sensitive system, especially for people with disabilities. This requires special effort and special education for these people who work. And many times we tend to point out some negative examples in the media, but we certainly need all those positive examples of one correct, honest, professional relationship between those people who work in the health system and access to people with disabilities, but of course continue to improve it with education and any other measures that the health system provides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75963	Thank you. Now it is the turn of the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75964	Thank you very much. Comrade Milinkovic, you said in your discussion some county do, others do not, some local communities do, do not. This is true and we see that, in essence, the relationship with people with disabilities, or children with developmental difficulties, depends in fact on the financial assistance of the local community or awareness. So I think it's too much left to the local community and that leads to one inequality, so it's rough to say, but are there people with disabilities first, second, third, etc. I will mention the City of Dubrovnik that we also have through measures of social policy that we care for people with disabilities, then we have a strategy, we have made a guide for people with disabilities, a commission of course worth public needs. Then we add 200 kuna to the personal disability. We also have representatives in the civil society council. So we're working on it a lot. I'll bring up an assistant in the class that's just, it's not systematic. We're inventing ways to fund it, so whether it's going to stay to do humanitarian actions for an assistant in teaching or calling people in good faith, not to say good pocket because that doesn't mean if you have a good pocket to have a good will. I'm talking about a more systematic solution, not relying on how much financial power we have, or whether we're aware of it, whether we're empathy. That's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75965	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75966	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I, my fellow Shimac Bonačić, agree with you most of your replica, but I want to add, we all have to do, we all have to do, we have to compete in action. We do not have to compete in eating miles of Jaeger, but we must compete in doing so in these areas where necessary. And you should have competed during the coalition government in making a dear colleague, not having sex with Croatian wartime wartime disableds, the denial of disability, etc. We're competing to improve the system, dear colleague, that's the difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75967	Thank you. We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Danica Hurs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75968	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Milinkovic, you argued in your debate that it is not quite true that the rural part has been neglected in this area. I would be very pleased if it were true because I come from an area that we can consider rural. Well, it's a great honor to be around, it's welcome, all people feel good about it, but it can't be all about it. Here's the lawyer herself in her report who claimed there was a problem. The number of cases received, i.e. the case also speaks in favour of what I am saying, the rural part is certainly sub-represented. Number of assistants, I'd be very happy if you could count here how many schools in those rural parts of our class there are assistants in class. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75969	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75970	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank my colleague Hurs, but I must correct you. I did not claim that rural space was neglected, I said positive examples that occur in the rural area and that rural areas have a far better view of the terrain than these many in urban areas whose eyes are all facing the welfare center and some competent institutions. We have family, etc. And the other thing, for example, I'm going to say, I'm going to repeat that in 2006, when this government introduced a personal assistant was 77, there are 550 of them today. It speaks enough to access this problem, and not for the time being let's say where you were participating in the government when they were banged, cut and cut rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75971	Thank you. And now we have a replica, the esteemed representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my dear colleague, I didn't mean to correct the incorrect allegations because I don't think you deliberately stated it as an incorrect assumption. So when it comes to local self-government units, we can't talk about local self-government units, that it's not such a bad situation with them, because it depends on how much they're going to take. The problem is lack of financial resources and is constantly being warned from all counties. I'll give an example of Osijek-Baranja County. Of the 42 units of local self-government, of the 24th time we received a report last year, 24 units of local self-government implemented measures of the National Strategy for equalising the opportunities of persons. And in 18 units of local self-government, we received reports that they had not implemented these measures. As the most common reason for the municipalities to come is the lack of financial resources, regardless of which political circles the mayors of these municipalities come from. I will give you an example of a municipality here, Vladislavci, whose HDZ chief, who, as a reason why he did not implement the measures of the National Strategy, wrote in simple words, here I will quote: "that, with the current way of financing the local self-government of a smaller municipality of weaker fiscal capacity, I cannot adequately access the implementation of the National Strategy." So it has nothing to do with politics, or the situation from which the environment or political options come from our ministers. There is also a need to change something into, and that may be one of the contributions of those common requirements and the change of fiscal, decentralisation, the change of fiscal policy and the distribution of total funds from the state level across the counties and over municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75973	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Buric, I agree with you that some local self-government units have financial problems. It's an indisputable thing, and I don't want to deny it in any way. But I also want to say that these problems financially mainly in this problem are being solved in the triangle, dear colleague, I want to remind you, in the triangle. Local Self-Government Units, Regional Self-Government and Ministry. So that's how it works. But there should be an initiative. So there should be an initiative. There are priorities. In many units of local self-government, there are priorities of various kinds, and these are ignored, which are very important and important. In a way, the project needs to be designed, of course applied, and, of course, it will certainly be recognized and, in that sense, we can all jointly improve this important area together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75975	Thank you. And we have a replica of the distinguished representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75976	Thank you. A colleague of Milinkovic's really constructive debate. I agree with you, the real office is doing a great job with the D.A., and you've noticed it very nicely. But I still don't know, and I don't think we all know why he's moving into joining all the attorney generals. He still doesn't see that reason. Yesterday when he was a minister, and when he represented the Law on the Ombudsman, we asked him, "Sobol, when she exhibited on behalf of the SDP club, she asked the minister in her explanation, you have two pages, and it's not really clear why she's accessing that attachment. Then the minister said okay, if you need more pages of explanation, we're going to expand that explanation to 20 pages in the second reading but we're essentially not going to say anything else. You will be told just as it says on these two pages. I mean it's such an extremely unserious answer and ultimately... I now have a letter from Ms. Slunjšak's attorney here, sends to the Committee on Human Rights, the Committee on Legislativeity, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, and all of it begs nicely and says please don't join me to the Ombudsman for the simple reason why it is not in the interest of persons with disabilities. [[You can't hear the phone.]] [[Employing Capricorn: Take a swing.]] She goes on to say the same thing, here's a quote. He says it's still not divorceous, and neither is the introductional explanation of the legislator of this law why the existing special defenders are actually being abolished. For some of these reasons, I'll only quote one. From an explanation of the law, he says by joining the Ombudsmans, the use of an existing network of local offices will be improved in such a way that existing technical and logistics resources will be made available to all members of sensitive social groups That's what Mrs. Slonjak answers. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end.]] As regards the reasons for the reason for the availability and use of the existing network of local offices of that promotion, it will not be for the simple reason that other than the office in which the Ombudsman works for persons with personal disabilities No defence office, including local offices, is accessible to persons with disabilities. [[Employing Capricorn: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75977	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75978	So the parents with developmental difficulties can't physically enter these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75979	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75980	So give me another sentence. I'm just saying that no analysis has been made...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75981	I said we can't, look at it for everyone else and for you. Thank you very much. Please, I interrupted everything the same way. Don't be mad.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75982	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75983	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75984	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for thanking my colleague Simunović and for noticing that my debate was constructive which confirms this number of replicas and, in any case, thanks for the replica. I apologize for interrupting because I was impatient to answer your line. But I want that regardless of the structure, I believe that Ms. Attorney General will show, so his activity continues. And they still have their autonomy absolutely and will act, therefore, on all these issues that I have mentioned along with, of course, what she said in the closing statement, with the invitation of everyone to naturally get involved by the Ministry's Professional Rehabilitation Fund, but of course the units of local self-government that were also mentioned here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75985	Thank you. And we have another individual debate. It is the esteemed representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75986	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although I didn't mean to start having to start by finding my colleague Milinkovic about so-called. The triangle he's talking about. Thus, the municipality, or city, county and state. And when we look at the relationship between these poor municipalities that we have not only in Osijek-Baranja, which he was talking about but also in those three counties of the so-called County. The fifth electoral units of Požeko-Slavonska, Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijemska will then only say that all three counties are in HDZ County with their coalition partners SDSS and HSS in power. But it doesn't matter for this debate, so how it works in this general comprehensive poverty of municipalities and these counties that I have said best speaks at the end of the report by the Ombudsman, the lawyer's pardon for people with disabilities in which information on accessibility is provided so to public institutions, institutions, schools, health homes, etc. where of the 7 counties that delivered these data 3 are precisely these Brodo-Posaviska, Vukovar-Srijemska and Požeko-Slavonska. And of those 11 sheets that we have here, 11 sheets, 7 sheets are institutions, schools, health homes, pharmacies, right in the area of this 3 county. That's how the triangle works, the state, the county and the municipalities. I will not list what is inaccessible in these counties starting with the health clinic Rajo Selo, health clinic Gunja, Home of Nuštar, hospital Markusica, municipality and home office in Vrbanja, post office in Vrbanja, Tourist Board of the city of Vukovar, children's kindergarten in Vukovar, Firehouse in Posavski Podgajci, Home of culture Nuštar, Croatian Post office in Nuštar, Post office in Županja, Municipal Court in Županja, Municipality of Jarmina, Sports center Stari Jankovci, Stari Mikanovci, Post office in Šarengrad, skip, so Dom culture in the Island, children's kindergarten in the island, unfortunately miss writings the Lopovac elementary school, it is Lipovac, that it is not, that this is one press incident, I hope, that it would not turn out, that the most angry residents are called Lipovic. Stari Jankovici elementary school, inaccessibility, kindergarten Radost – Nova Gradiška inaccessible, therefore to people with disabilities. Pharmacy in Velika Kopanica, pharmacy Sikirevci, pharmacy number 3 in Slavonski Brod, pharmacy Korzo in Slavonski Brod. The Cernik municipality building is inaccessible, Okucani primary school has no Mr. Bilnjići inaccessible, Vladimir Nazor Adjamovci primary school, a significant place for HDZ inaccessible. School of Nova Gradiška inaccessible, Matija Mesic High School in Slavonski Brod, Technical School in Slavonski Brod and not to list any further. That is what the triangle and the effectiveness of that triangle was talking about. But this extensive and exhaustive lawyer report for people with disabilities seems to be actually a more swan song. Labuji sing since Friday's will be different and it will be included or included, therefore, by the Ombudsman's office as they intend to do so by ruling. And despite all the praises that we all give here in general, so all the clubs, despite all the praises of your report here, there is no dam or reason for anyone to say so wait if people are doing well, if there is a vision and a strategy of new relationships with people with disabilities or with disabilities any way you want, if this strategy and vision goes from completely other assumptions than to afirming what is worth, and that actually in the population of a person, starting from childhood to adulthood, people with no disability are exactly the kind of person who are actually making great efforts to see a different relationship together with life, so a persuasion between individuals who would benefit and persons without disabilities especially in their younger age, in preschool education, to see how persons with disabilities are fighting, how they want to be involved. So it would be a role model for those kids from kindergartens, schools, high schools and to say colleges and so forth. And not that their role model is some kind of Big Brothers or I don't know what in this society, as it is today unfortunately. So, just when there is one and when it comes to you from all of this, what from your vision speech and the strategy of this particular relationship, one change in attitude towards people with disabilities, one progress, one step that I would say in terms of both European and global terms, so we're going to be left out of crack, I'm sorry again, I'm talking to the D.A. for people with disabilities. In the very report on all aspects, therefore, the lives of persons with disabilities from housing, mobility, accessibility, education, social protection, pension insurance, employment and labour have come to an article on raising awareness. And in this, the opening part is therefore about, it is said, the tours of the county, then the participation in professional gatherings and events and the media. The visits of the county itself, just participating in professional meetings and in the media that didn't write enough about this topic, it's quite clear to everyone, nor have they written relatively speaking in affirmative terms, I think it's much more important that this vision and this strategy that I've been talking about, so one perceiving thought and understanding of how many people with disabilities, the difficulties in development are making efforts at inclusion, including that it's much more important that we make significant progress in this segment. The county tours themselves and it is clear that they are useful in this sense and here are called several such to say meetings, tours, among them the one organised by the Đakovak-sekh archdiocese and the Jubilee 10th in which several hundred people with disabilities participated. Then, a meeting in Sarajevo also where you participated and which showed that people with disabilities not only can but are very creative and that they have both a chance and an opportunity to express themselves in this regard. And also at a meeting in Daruvar, if I'm not mistaken, or an exhibition of people who are engaged in craftsmanship and people are disabled. I wanted to say that what is not stressed here is the need to include not only social inclusion but all the involvement of people so-called. Inclusion can be Croatian... inclusion of persons with disabilities in all pores of society. When the rate or percentage of that participation in Croatia is compared to other countries then it is low, it is on the rise but still low. This is also the case in talks with the Centre for Persons with Disabilities, which includes several organisations, which was also apostrophe during such talks with representatives clubs here in the Assembly 10, 15 days ago. I will. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] Just don't cut me short.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75987	Bring the end because your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75988	Okay. You're taking away my precious seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75989	Thank you very much. Your time is up. We have two replicas. Thank you very much. It is now the first turn of the line of the distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75990	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, when you mentioned the swan song and this report I must admit that I am very sorry and appeal here and I once again to the ruling majority to think carefully about tomorrow's vote whether to do what there is no excuse to do. In fact, there are few things that can be highlighted in the HDZ government's mandate as a fine example. It reminded me of the Regional Development Fund. We then said from the perspective of Slavonia and Baranja that it was one of the few examples of an institution that had taken care of the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, so it joined its shut-down under the exception of savings or I don't know what. We now have an example of excellent work by an office for a truly specific group of citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have more than justifiable reasons to remain independent and independent of their work. Nothing will be the same the moment it's connected. It's like we're not an independent state. It's like we're a confederate. So, another appeal, let's not put out the little good things that work well. I hope here's the D.A.'s office, and about that letter you sent, you're still standing at your findings, if you really have the support of a large number of MPs to continue doing what you've been doing so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75991	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75992	A colleague of Buric's that the attorney's autonomy for people with disabilities would be much better compared as the autonomy of Vojvodina in Serbia, that's how it will be. And as for automatic handlifters on Friday afternoons, I don't doubt they'll lift it without any thought. Clearly these on the left.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75993	Thank you. And we have another replica of the distinguished representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75994	Thank you. Here's my colleague Grubisic. I see you're as surprised as I am and as many of us are. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75995	Without the polemics from the club, allow the distinguished representative to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75996	I accept your apology. I'll repeat the sentence. I say, my colleague Boro, you're wondering how and why this attorney general who's doing his job just as well as everyone else is taking off and joining the veggie attorney. As far as we know, no analysis has been done, the data in the explanation is absolutely incorrect, they don't match the state of the field or any real reasons, and it's very easy to approach that task. The only explanation we got yesterday from the minister said that he was trying to strengthen the attorney general. That's not exactly because we're witnessing that the last few reports by the Ombudsman in the Parliament were not accepted but received and was often seen as an attack on the government. So now that you're experiencing someone for the last year, two as an institution that attacks the government, then you're not exactly going in that direction to strengthen it. That makes some sense than it'll go in the direction to weaken it. And with that weakness of the attorney general, we have collateral victims, and these are all the defenses that go into a merger with one. And behind that, the only real explanation I see is pure revenge, I don't know who and I don't know why it's absolutely unnecessary and inadmissible with enormous damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75997	Thank you. The reply to the replica is a respected representative. No, thank you very much. And now we still have two debates on behalf of the club for five minutes. First of all, MP Vesna Škulić is on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75998	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. Otherwise, I would hate for this topic to become political, political. We don't have political mentors at the SDP club who write us speeches, and I don't have party discipline to vote on and on what, but we have a deal. He's doing so much clean work for the public and information. We also do not take individual care of HDZ representatives as much as anyone has submitted the amendment and has participated in the debates. Otherwise, if we are not as a society ready to accept criticism, then we are immature and undemocratic society. We are politicians and we speak politically, and so we must act from all levels. Using human rights policy, not conflict policy. The fact is that problems are not solved by the dynamics that are provided for both strategies and conventions. The Convention is a legally binding document for the Member States of the Convention. The report on the implementation of the Convention has not been sent. An independent body to monitor the convention has not been established. There is also an inequality of the system throughout the Republic of Croatia. The strategy shall not be implemented within the specified deadlines. 7,000 people live in institutions, mostly those with intellectual difficulties. A personal assistant should have been a law a long time ago, not a pilot project. Health care in the house is not available to all under the same conditions in the Republic of Croatia. Where the proper rehabilitation is carried out for people with neuromuscular diseases, I would like to ask Mr. Milinovic, however, he is not here, since I am suffering from muscle dystrophy so let him tell me that rehabilitation centre I would very much like to go there. Otherwise, when we talk about this subject, I always feel like we're afraid to talk about it. No, I don't. This should be spoken of openly and normally. Because people who listen to us are and expect solutions from us, not our bickering. And otherwise, this should be a good practice of good report, not in the form of positive examples. We do not need positive examples but well - stalking practices. We have laws, we have strategies, we have a convention, we have an attorney's office. And this really sounds very hypocritical, and we're here today discussing a report from the D.A. that's good, the office is doing well, we're all praising her, and tomorrow we're going to cancel her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u75999	Thank you. And the second debate is on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić, for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here at the end of this I would say quality discussions I will once again point out that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities, but here I have to look back on a few things. This is a good report, as I have already noted in my debate on behalf of the club, and the Government itself has in its opinion praised these recommendations and said that the Government considers it positive that these recommendations are contained in this report because these recommendations will allow them to be implemented more effectively by the competent state authorities. I think that's something to say, and it's about the government not running away from the obligation to people with disabilities. The government is aware, from this it is evident, that not all things have been done yet, and that is exactly what the Attorney General said in his report and warned. I must also point out that today's report has been debated by more MPs than it has been in previous years, and I also express one satisfaction that opposition MPs are here as well. counterpart Romana Jerkovic talked about how it cannot be denied that great progress has been made in achieving the rights of disabled people. However, I do regret that when she spoke on behalf of the club, and here she is in the end, which expresses simply one thing I will not say, although some colleagues have talked about it, one of their bad opinions or opinions that is not entirely in line with everything that happens to people with disabilities. My colleague Škulić, I'm sorry she's not here right now, but she knows very well that the Law on a personal assistant couldn't have been passed as long as we wanted it all together until the unique body of art begins to do its job. Today, June 30th and today the trial deadline for the unique body of art ends, so from tomorrow we will be starting with disability assessments for people with disabilities. That the situation is completely satisfactory we cannot say, but we are extremely happy that the Ombudsman warns of what is not good and I expect it to be improved in the coming period. But one last sentence, please allow disabled persons at the highest level through their alliances and associations to be satisfied with what has been done. This is also said by a symposium organised by the Association of Persons with Disabilities, a roof organisation, last year, so last year at the 10th month when persons with disabilities to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Ministers had already given support, saying that they would round up in a referendum on accession to the European Union. It says something, colleagues and colleagues, and it says that people with disabilities are still satisfied in a certain way, but that all of us here and persons with disabilities and defenders, all of us together and all of us individually have to continue to make extremely great efforts to solve the problem of a disabled person in the best possible way and so that when we enter the European Union, we can withdraw and know that I say so to withdraw as much resources as possible to make the life of a person with disabilities more quality. It is not everything beautiful in the world, and we also know that our colleague Škulić and I, who have traveled a lot about this problem and have seen when we return to the Republic of Croatia that we are satisfied, as we say, and it is still good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76001	Thank you. And now finally, the esteemed Anka Slonjšak, Attorney General for Persons with Disabilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76002	Thank you. Dear MPs and MPs, I would primarily like to thank you for the debate that was indeed as you spoke about my report exhaustively, as detailed as it could have been, extensively in that part as it could have been. The debate was rather dynamic and in this part I would actually like to address everyone and those who are looking at us both to you who are here and who are discussing very important issues at the highest level. I think it is very important for people with disabilities to be involved, again I return to all those life pores that concern them, and if they are not included in it from the highest level to the lowest level, then neither the quality of the adoption of their rules nor the exercise of their rights, nor the possibility of applying those rules that have already been adopted, will be possible. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has been signed, ratified and we are constantly returning to it and for exactly one very important reason, and that is that national legislation must be consistent with it and everything that has been brought and what has been adopted must be brought into line, and therefore implement it. The city of Zagreb is unique in one segment, and that is where the seat of everything lies. However, we must not forget those environments that really do not have the possibility of such exercise of rights and indications that they are unequal criteria. We need to turn to local units. And if we are talking about decentralisation today then we must also talk about the means that must be made possible in order to do so. In the fall comes the budget. Please pay attention to providing funds for those institutions and those associations that are important and as partners not only to the state but to local units. And I'd just end up at the Convention saying nothing about us without us. Here's what I'd be done with. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76003	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we'll interrupt the session, and we'll continue at 15 hours with the report on the work of the Ombudsman for the children for 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76004	We move to the 2010 Ombudsman's report on the work of persons with disabilities, the applicant is the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities for 2010. a year." Let's please get involved and vote on the motion to accept the report. Score. This report was accepted by most votes, 96 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76005	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the session. On the agenda - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2010 is the Ombudsman for children who delivered this report on the basis of Article 18. The Law on Child's Attorney General. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received the reports at the session. The prosecutor for children, Ms. Mila Jelavic, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76006	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, MPs and MPs. This is the report on the work of the Ombudsman's Office for Children and the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia for 2010. The Ombudsman's office is working on a regional principle, which means that he works alongside the offices in Zagreb in Split, Osijek and Rijeka, which covers the counties of certain regions. At the beginning, I'd like to say something about the report on work, about our work. During 2010, the office opened 2,409 new cases, of which 1,059 were individual applications involving 1,761 children, 1, 350 were general initiatives, and we were also handling 402 cases individually from last year. The increase in total in 2010 compared to 2009 is slightly less than 10%. The methodology as well as previous years has been used in drawing up this report. A few words about the structure of child rights violations we received at the office. She'd say she followed the structure back in the day. So of the 1 059, actually 687 or 64% are infringements of the personal rights of children, among which are dominated by violation of the right to live with parents and parental care and violence against children. They are followed by 14.4% violation of children's educational rights, then violations of economic rights, judicial and protective violations, social, etc. Many individual cases have been an incentive for a number of recommendations that we have addressed in recent years to a number of addresses. During 2010, we participated in our observations, proposals and incentives in the adoption procedure in a total of 24 regulations, which law, which sublegal acts. We have also visited numerous institutions and places where children stay longer or shorter. I mention two prison institutions, 22 institutions of social care, 3 institutions of housing victims of domestic violence, 6 health institutions, 23 educational institutions, 8 kindergartens, 13 primary schools and 2 secondary schools, 5 pupils. Many children in larger or smaller groups visited us in our offices at all locations where we work and in Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka. Office staff participated in numerous international activities in the field of protection and promotion of children's rights. The cooperation is continued with the Committee on the Rights of the Child of the UN, the Council of Europe, and we are very active in the European Network of Advocates for Children and the Network of Advocates for Children of Southeast Europe. Also, we are active members of the EUROCHIPSU network of prisoner children protection organisations acting under the auspices of the European Commission, then the World Coalition of countries and child abuse prevention organisations operating within the UN. We also achieved our legal obligation to promote children's rights in professional debates, to present congressmen in our own story, at numerous exhibitions and workshops, texts in professional publications and newspapers, and through hundreds of media participations and through media statements. We have been dealing with various areas of children's life this year, and as always, we have given priority to the violations of their individual rights, from which almost as a rule many general initiatives have arisen. We also opened a number of new topics and cooperation with many bodies and institutions because they gave us opportunities to live in 2010, but also our commitment to more intensive inclusion of children and young people in the process of making important documents of law, strategy and decision-making in matters concerning them. I would certainly like to highlight intensive cooperation with the local community in a number of common topics such as the protection of children during floods, the availability of preschool education and the price of kindergartens. Then, the quality of education and education of children with developmental difficulties. We have devoted a lot of attention to working with children and young people and strengthening their role and increasing visibility in society in general, especially through the permanent counseling body of a network of young counselors where we question and listen to their opinions and attitudes, and they participate in the decision-making process in our work. We do all this because for most adults, the idea of making decisions that will affect their lives is completely unacceptable. But that fact is forgotten when it comes to children and young people and decisions are made about their lives. It is the mission of this particular office that children become more present in society and change their attitude toward their participation. With a number of activities in protecting the rights of children we were busy with during the year, a significant part of the time and energy was focused on creating satisfactory spatial conditions for working, editing and moving space in Osijek, Split and Zagreb. This creates conditions for more frequent and quality meetings and more intensive work with children in all our offices for which we want them to be affirmed in the future as real houses of children's rights. And now I'd like to say something about the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia, how we in the office have experienced them, of course, by dealing with them every day. A number of moves have been made in Croatia in respecting and protecting the rights of children. However, if we follow the words of the Commissioner for the Law of the Council of Europe Thomas Hammerberg to defend human rights, it must be possible to criticize the Ombudsman for children, it is expected that weaknesses and failures in the protection of children's rights will be highlighted in order to overcome them. Therefore, the Ombudsman’s annual report indicates. The discovery of weaknesses and failures is not about finding the culprit but about solving the problem. And this year, we met with a great problem of giving up our own responsibility and of transferring it to others. It is also present in individuals, parents, teachers, social workers, and other experts, as well as children themselves. But he is particularly concerned when institutions behave like this. Applications Office for Children in 2010 show us that the child protection system in Croatia is not functioning uniformly, it is often ineffective and there are numerous difficulties in applying existing regulations and documents. Although children and family are under the special protection of the state, we see that institutions and the system as a whole do not respond to certain life situations in which children cannot exercise their rights. The child is experiencing the most painful violation of the rights of family relations and the right to protection against violence. And that's exactly the kind of damage rights were the most numerous. The report shows that only the centre of the problem is the slowness of institutions to make decisions, ineffectiveness in their implementation, and recognition of the impotence to violence against children as well as the manipulative behaviour of parents. The length of court proceedings and an untimely reaction in risk situations directly harms the child's well-being. Since it is issues of vital importance such as restraint, parental life, and the right to the presence of both parents in a child’s life, the right to live in a family, the right to protection against violence. The ineffectiveness of the system favours neglecting the child's needs, disrespecting the decisions made and manipulating children's rights. General prevention fails, and the tolerance and non-sension of parental neglect and emotional and psychological abuse of children of states and society leave them unprotected and show their own impotence. There is still a systematic and complete timely concern for the family at risk. Centre for Social Care experts and judges who make decisions on the relationship between parents and children are overburdened by a growing number of cases. The result is the insufficient involvement of the social care centre in protecting the best interests of children, and the failure to respect the deadlines in making decisions concerning children. Late response within the system often makes it difficult to provide alternative forms of care for children without adequate parental care and affects their excessive stay in institutions. Since the process of deinstitutionalisation is slow, it is necessary to improve the quality of accommodation and professional services for children still in institutions. However, the ultimate objective must be to move children from institutions through the development of a system of support for biological and foster families and to support the replacement care system further. Body punishment is still widely accepted in and outside the family as a method of education. Despite numerous arguments that point to its harmfulness and despite the legal ban. Adults who tolerate violence in society and who act aggressively themselves, insult and humiliate others in the street, in the stadium, in the media and elsewhere send messages that violence is acceptable. As a result, more and more severe forms of violence are among the younger and younger children. Internet and mobile phones are opening doors to new forms of violence against children who are increasingly taking root, and neither children nor parents, nor experts have yet to acquire all the necessary knowledge and skills to prevent such violence. However, there is a growing awareness among education and education experts of the importance of preventing the prevention of any and thus of electronic violence, but it is necessary to make greater efforts to bring good preventive programmes to life and to combat online violence with effective measures. Due to insufficient prevention, peer violence is a particularly difficult problem in educational institutions where educational and educational workers often do not recognise it in good time and in children's homes where he particularly enjoys understructured educational work, insufficient differentiation of treatment and non-compliance with the needs of children. Although we share concerns about the increase in violence in society, we are concerned about the attitude of adults towards minor perpetrators for whom stricter punishment is sought. Clearly, they must bear the consequences of unacceptable behavior, but we must not interfere with the idea that children are involved, and they must not be punished more severely than adult perpetrators of violence. Young perpetrators of violence are the product of society and its tolerance to violence in all forms, and with appropriate punishment and re-training, comprehensive prevention is the most effective form of suppression and prevention of all forms of socially unacceptable behaviour. The slowness of certain courts causes a low level of judicial effectiveness in the procedures in which children's rights are resolved, the protection of victims' children and witnesses is not sufficiently organised. It is too long to wait for sanctions to be imposed on minors when court proceedings are under way despite the legal obligation of haste. It concerns the lack of adequate accommodation facilities for children of detainees in the preparatory procedure to ensure their separation from the adult perpetrators of criminal offences. The application of alternative measures and sanctions is insufficient due to insufficient personnel and programming capacity, and the post-penal acceptance of the child is insufficient. Children still suffer in traffic, playgrounds and playgrounds, and in educational institutions their empowerment and teaching about behavior in crisis situations such as earthquakes, floods, terrorist attacks, street shootings or such. Communication between kindergartens or schools, social care centres and parents often lacks real cooperation and agreements in child protection, resulting in uncoordinated and ineffective measures. Inappropriate and unethical actions by individual educators, teachers, teachers, and directors are not recognized and sanctioned and further endanger children’s rights, but also the rights and reputation of other educators who are dedicated to working with children. We therefore hold the important establishment of licences and evaluations and the strengthening of the capacity of inspection and pedagogical and supervisory services. Unfortunately, some kids go to high school. To pedestrian schools on public roads, they do not have a gym or satisfactory teaching equipment, and these are the problems in which the state needs help. Some are forced to hitchhike what can be fatal for them and make them victims of criminals and violent men. A number of children with developmental difficulties have been disabled from integration into regular educational institutions due to too many children in the kindergarten or classroom, unregulated status of assistants in the follow-up and architectural, staff and other obstacles. It is unacceptable that such barriers cause children to stop schooling or separate them from their families and send them to special institutions. Since the state accepts and promotes the concept of equal opportunities and inclusion of children with developmental difficulties through adopted international conventions and national strategic and legislative documents, it should make increased efforts in the consistent application of these rules with the provision of sufficient financial resources. In addition, it is necessary to ensure that services are distributed as uniformly as possible and to increase the number of available experts needed to work with children with developmental difficulties in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Further efforts need to be made to ensure sufficient healthcare professionals in the field of protection of children's physical and mental health, to provide better information for parents and children on the exercise of health insurance rights, and to strengthen activities aimed at promoting health, improving children's eating habits and preventing overweight and obesity. It concerns the decision to give up the introduction of health care and education in schools that should integrate all areas of health risks for children and to prevent alcohol abuse and other means of addiction, prevention of violence and protection of reproductive health. A large number of children remain inaccessible psychiatric assistance and experts in the field of mental health protection, especially in smaller places. In times of economic crisis, the need for greater engagement in the achievement of measures and programmes aimed at socially vulnerable persons has been stressed. The data on poverty in Croatia, confirmed by the World Bank, suggest an increase in child poverty rates that threatens their chances of achieving full potential. The importance of achieving the cultural rights guaranteed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child is not sufficiently recognised in society and the infringements of children's rights in free time are mostly not reacted. Insufficient investment in leisure facilities deprives children of valuable development incentives and can contribute to increasing unacceptable and violent behaviours of children and young people. Although there is a awareness of the rights of children in the media and aims to better protect them from regulations, their application is inconsistencies and ineffective, and children's rights to privacy and protection against inappropriate media content remain unpunished. Quality content is lacking for children and the development of media literacy in both education and parent systems. The threat to the rights of children of members of national minorities is often linked to the lack of understanding and lack of tolerance, which points to the need for systematic education and education for democratic citizenship that will develop a culture of human rights and life in a multicultural society. Adults must be more responsible in providing positive examples to children in accepting and respecting diversity. The solution for many of the weaknesses identified must be sought with the active involvement of children as equal participants in all issues concerned. Therefore, we must give our children the opportunity to listen regularly, not only to the occasion. We remind you that children have rights guaranteed by all laws, but the responsibility for the exercise of these rights is entirely upon us adults. Finally, I cannot mention the proposal for a new Law on the Ombudsman, which provides for the unification of all specialised lawyers. The law was proposed precisely in the year in which the Republic of Croatia reports to the United Nations Children's Rights Committee on how it has made its recommendation to strengthen the Office of Advocates for Children. Croatia has indeed done so by strengthening the office and assigning suitable space that enables quality work with children and children both in Zagreb and in regional offices in Split, Osijek and Rijeka. For the past eight years, the Office of the Ombudsman for Children has developed as a specialised institution with a specialized interdisciplinary team that actively includes children in its work. The rights of children, as top experts assure us, are today considered a separate category of human rights in legal theory and practice worldwide. The existence of a lawyer for children as an independent, professional and independent body is considered to be an indicator of the real concern and sensitivity of society and state for children, since children are the most vulnerable part of the population because of their dependence on adults, and adults are the most common offenders of their rights. Will the Republic of Croatia now that it is on the way to perfecting an effective model of protection and promotion of children's rights, which, according to expert assessments, gives good results, give up this and set out a new direction towards the establishment of a new large-scale institution of comprehensive general defence, remains to be seen. If we want to lose the next few years in stalking such a new system, examining and checking its functionality rather than devote all our strengths to protecting the rights of those we exist for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76007	Thank you very much. Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Vice-President of the Committee of Mrs. Representatives Sunčana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ms. Advocates and Associates, Committee on Family, Youth and Sport of the Croatian Assembly at the 41st session discussed the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2010. In the opening statement, the Ombudsman informed the board members that in 2010, the office acted in 2409 new cases of which were 1059 individual applications, violations of children's rights and 1350 general initiatives. The number of individual applications as well as the number of initiatives has increased this year. The Ombudsman also pointed out that the Office of the Ombudsman for Children in 2010 dealt with various areas of children's life and was given priority to individual rights violations. Much attention has been paid to working with children and young people in strengthening their role and increasing visibility in society in general, and in particular has been intensive cooperation with institutions that care for children and young people and administrative bodies of local self-government units where significant progress has been made in accepting and implementing the counsel and recommendations of the Advocate's Office. Special emphasis is placed on adapting police premises to minors during their interrogation. She also pointed out that violations of family rights, rights to protection against violence and over the past year have dominated, and many of the Office's activities have been focused on the issue. The need for further involvement of the state and society in helping children to protect their rights as well as the implementation of a series of preventive measures to protect the rights and interests of children is highlighted. The committee members supported the 2010 report on the work of the Ombudsman for children. They pointed out this, together with the submitted opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, gives full insight into the state of children's rights and interests, and insight into a series of measures and procedures taken to achieve and protect children's rights. It has been stated that there has been a triple of financial resources in recent years. Therefore, they have been tripled for the work of the Advocate's Office, and a number of moves have been made in respecting and protecting children's rights. There is also a further importance in protecting the rights of children and young people and the obligations of all institutions in respecting children and young people, as well as the need for continued action in the interest of achieving and protecting the rights of children and young people in our society. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that it should reach its conclusion that a report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76009	Thank you. Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Chairman of the Committee, Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76010	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has considered the Report as an interested working body. In the debate, the members of the Committee particularly praised the proposed Ombudsman's report for children, with particular emphasis that there is no area of protection for the rights of the child which is not covered in detail and considered by this Report. It has been pointed out that, with the others, the work of the Ombudsman's Office for Children has made a special contribution to the protection and promotion of human rights through a prominent autonomous action, as recognised by all relevant international institutions assessing the protection of the rights of the child of the Member States. In this respect, it is reiterated once again that if a particular area of protection of human rights is to be rationalised in the direction of the state administration. It's about joining the defense attorneys. In particular, the members of the Committee referred to the co-operation of the Advocate's Office with the units of the local administration, which was particularly apostrophe with the proposed report for the past year. It has been stressed that such cooperation is an example of how problems in a particular area are most effectively addressed, as at local level it is the most common thing to do that good legal solutions are not properly implemented, and that more complex issues are left aside. In particular, the importance of an established network of young counselors organised by the Ombudsman, which enables children to hear the voice of all important issues in such a way as to express their views and opinions that are then included in the implementation plans. In this respect, it is proposed that the Ombudsman also connect with the Youth Councils organised in all major cities in the administrative bodies, as it is precisely the initiative and proposals of these councils that move to address a number of issues in the area of protection of the rights of children and young people. Since a small number of complaints about child sexual abuse have been filed, board members found it necessary to make significant efforts to remove numerous obstacles to society, but also the conduct of institutions that make it difficult to report such crimes more freely. In this respect, it is pointed out that the Council of Europe's recent initiative on the protection of children from sexual exploitation and abuse of their recommendations. In particular, the importance of further work on protecting children from pornography and other inappropriate media content is highlighted. This is thought of violence, of course, and of ensuring the necessary legal assumptions in order to ensure the possibility of appointing the perpetrators of those offences. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion adopting the 2010 Ombudsman's work report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76011	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club Mrs. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76012	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney with your associates, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at the very beginning, I'd like to say that the SDP club will support this year's report. We believe that the Ombudsman and her associates did their job in quality, well-being, and the institution of the Ombudsman for children is one of those who continuously develops well. Major progress has been made and a major step has been made by opening and strengthening regional centres, i.e. offices. Unfortunately, Madam Attorney General, the report shows this, you have too often an opportunity to meet, face the consequences of a dysfunctional family, but also the consequences of a dysfunctional state. Therefore, with the consequences of bad laws or good laws that are not implemented and the poor functioning of the child protection system and their rights. As a club, we believe that you are very engaged in your efforts to point to irregularities and system shortages, its slowness, ineffectiveness, bureaucratism and the need to amend and supplement existing laws. However, on behalf of the SDP club, I regret that such efforts are mainly without hearing from the political elite, so those who in their hands have the power to change and bring policies to the welfare of children. I am sure, however, that the time is coming when legislation will indeed be regarded as exclusively a service at the service of citizens and as an instrument of protection of human rights. And if the law is not effective in that, if it is not for the benefit of citizens, in this case for the benefit of children, we must literally change it overnight. The policy that adopts laws that are purpose to themselves and which do not provide adequate protection is not simply a good policy and these are not good laws. Also, a policy that is unable to create preconditions for good laws, and we have such laws, are not implementing is also not good and is not an effective policy. The example that supports my introduction to the debate is very much. For example, consider this in a segment relating to the right, to life with parents, and to parental care. We've heard that in 2010, it's one of the most common reasons for addressing this office. So the number of cases in 2010 increased compared to 2009. Interesting and alarming. Sadly, there is an extremely large number of conflicting divorces involving the suffering of children and rarely one parent deny the right to see and to be with his own child. They forget that such child manipulation actually means child abuse and the denial of his rights. Unfortunately, we still do not have good mechanisms, this is also clear from this report to read, how to protect children and how to enable them to exercise their rights. Our Family Law, for example. It still does not recognise what is good practice in EU Member States, which is so-called. "joint custody" means equal rights and equal obligations of both parents. So, as early as 2009, the office made a recommendation to amend the Family Law in a way that required that court decisions be clear, to be precise, and to prescribe a obligation to adopt provisional measures in all cases where there is no agreement between parents in matrimonial litigation cases concerning custody and the decision with which the child will live. But it wasn't done. It's not done and it's a problem we've had for years. This year, as well as previous years, it has been asked by the Ministry of Health and Social Care to provide the number of interventions of the social care centre in cases of encountering a child with whom he does not live, about the number of manipulative behaviours of one or both parents and the measures put forward. No data supplied. I wonder why? Well, because the ministry has been ignoring the office, and it's been repeating it for years. And I think it's inadmissible and outrageous. Like I said, law enforcement is still our problem. In practice, the provisions of the Family Law, which prescribe the obligation of the institutions to carry out the obligation to pay for maintenance, are generally not implemented, but are all still left to the personal involvement of the parents. And as it ends, we know that. The proceedings before the courts take an inappropriate length of time until the children receive no funds and this is also highlighted by what times in the office reports. So for years, we have warned of the importance of opening up, and about this parenting problem, etc., the importance of opening a school for parents. It is extremely important for incentives to come from a national level in this regard. We can't wait here and expect the sensitivity of some local self-government unit or regional self-government. So in that sense you can do a lot more. It doesn't have to go from the state budget, but then from the national level, a kind of recommendation can go to the local level to do something like that. And I can give you an example of good practice, in Rijeka, for example. since 2006 we have a school for parents which is held as part of the "TIĆ" children's seminary. Since 2007, we have a school for divorced parents, since 2008 for single parents. So it's extremely important that preventive activity, it's the most efficient and we recognized it and as such the city of Rijeka and financed it. In connection with violence in educational and educational institutions, the Ombudsman points out the tendency to increase the intensity of such violence and that the spectrum of such violence is increasing and the age of victims and perpetrators is increasing. So the alarming number is 62% increase. 62% compared to the last reporting period. And for us, colleagues and colleagues, the opposition parliamentarians, it took almost a year for the interpretation of violence between the young and the young to come to this Parliament's agenda. I recall that some parliamentary deputies have been downplaying our efforts to talk about the subject of trying to convince us that violence is not to the extent that we have to worry. Even tried to dissuade us with some percentages of the alleged rates of violence that are falling. However, the fact is that today we have an escalation of violence and alcohol consumption at an ever younger age and the consumption of increasingly severe drugs at a younger age and the increase in child suicide and the increase in child abuse and the increase in child abuse with behavioral disorders and mental difficulties. We don't need statistics for that, we don't need any numbers for that. We witness daily more brutal and brutal violence between children and children. Our children get drunk at night and wander the streets, kill each other, commit suicide. That's alarming. But it's not alarming today, it was alarming a few years ago, and then we should have seriously approached that problem. According to data from the MAP on the night out after 23 hours in 2010, 3 thousand 841 children were found. And that's an increase of over 50% compared to the previous year. And despite years of recommendations, the Family Law does not impose direct sanctions against parents who allow children under 16 years of age to go out nights and drink consumption. The question arises, what about the Law of Infractions against Public Order and Peace? Good law. He says it is forbidden to give alcoholic beverages to minors under 16 years of age. What about the Law on Food Activity and Trades, which is a good law, which speaks of banning and selling and serving alcoholic beverages under the age of 18? They're not having fun. That's what's with them. I think it's justified to ask if we've made an appointment as a youth care society? I think so. Have they scheduled state institutions? I think so. Are those in the executive authority scheduled to deal with youth problems? They did. It is also the responsibility of all those who have not yet regained awareness of the fact that juvenile violence, youth and their drugs, youth and their problem of violence are a very serious problem for this country. We didn't actually adequately deal with addictions like drugs, alcohol, smoking. And already our fat kids have a problem with some other addictions, the Internet, our cell phone. And it's a shame that we are always late for this reality as it is forever and forever. Pedophiles and pornophiles this medium uses badges to promote photographs, films and other materials of pornographic content, focusing on children and youth. However, despite the fact that there have been cases where virtual social networking has led to severe sexual abuse in the Republic of Croatia, there is neither a law to prevent children from accessing social networks. Still, all is left to parental supervision, which can actually be left behind for a number of reasons, and one of them is certainly the need of parents. The report did not mention the still present problems of lack of paediatric teams. The D.A. said so many times in public that she was rightly tired of repeating. We still have a lack of specialists and suits to treat children with eating disorders and we still have a lack of pedodonia specialists, although the number of children with behavioral disorders and mental difficulties, although this number is growing in Croatia, is chronically praised by child psychiatrists. Well, we brought everything together to one level of absurdity because in Croatia, 30 children's psychiatrists and 26 clinical psychologists care for the mental health of all children in Croatia. So we're chronically short of expert personnel. From year to year, we are unfortunately witnessing a drastic decrease in funding for children. And no one can correct me with an incorrect assumption because the truth is that in the last year, only at the prevention of three competent ministries has taken off 11 million kunas. And instead of investing in child rearing, for what we invest will surely return to us, we save on them. Here's the last case, it came out yesterday, tells the little ones who have autoimmune diseases against rheumatoid, juvenile arthritis or lupus will have been deprived of biological therapy since August at the Srebrenica Children's Hospital because this institution can no longer cover the cost of expensive treatment. In translation HZZO owes her 2 million kuna. So, I think it's very bad and regardless of the different persuasion and reasoning it's crystal clear that this last move of government is actually a weakness of this office that was extremely important to children. A system that's been created and built for years is collapsing, and we're back in a completely wrong place. The stories of empowerment are inconclusive, because if you want to empower someone by giving them financial resources so that they can surround themselves with quality personnel, give them greater powers to change things, that means empowering one office, and everything else is pure demagogy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76013	Thank you. The HDZ Club is Mrs. Representative Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76014	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Attorney-General with associates, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here I did not find it appropriate to go into the corrections of the allegations, but I hope this exposure on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will be just as systematic, objectively as only the Advocate's report will consider only the report and we will also say that the report reflects the real situation, just as we are all invited to eliminate the perceived negative phenomena. It should also be said at the very beginning that the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports all requests of the Office of the Ombudsman for Children, so that there are also offices, totaling four, three and so in Zagreb, Split and Rijeka in completely new and arranged areas. Because the government firmly believes that this is a basic prerequisite for long-term action and a friendly environment in which both the child and the parent will be happy to come, so they strongly financially support as well as ensuring uninterrupted work and in recent years there has been a triple of funds for the work of this office. During 2010, a total of 2409 new cases were opened, of which 1350 are general initiatives. 1059 is a report of violations of individual children's rights, of which 1761 children were processed and 402 cases were transferred. In total, this increase is slightly less than 10%. At least we've heard it, but it's not bad and repeat it because I think it will also contribute to the sensitization and sensitization of all of us who are responsible will actually eliminate all of the perceived negative phenomena. So I'm going to say further that since the application of individual rights violations, the greatest share has been the violation of the right to life with parents and parental care and the right to protect children from violence and neglect. The office dealt with various areas of children's lives, and the advantage was individual violations of rights. Much attention is paid to working with children and young people because they want to strengthen the role of children in general in society. Contact and co-operation with institutions that care for children and young people have been intensified, and in particular with local self-government authorities, there has been significant progress in accepting office recommendations, and it is also not worse to stress that this is also their legal obligation under the law on units of local and regional self-government. Working in the field of family relations and protection against violence, the office paid a lot of attention, which is also logical given the number of reports of individual rights violations. The right of a child to live with parents and parental care is also one of the most common reasons for addressing parties to the office and it is slightly higher by almost 7.5% compared to the previous year. These are the most common problems related to the child’s right to abstain against a parent who does not pay for restraint. In eliminating these problems and protecting the rights of the child, the Law on Free Legal Assistance enables the child to exercise the right to support regardless of the material opportunities of the family. Here's my colleague Jerkovic, and this is a good law that goes right in the direction which is actually one of the elements that we've made great shifts in the protection of children's rights. Also, the purpose of exercising the right to temporary restraint is to safeguard the child's well-being. The violation of the rights in the area of family relations is true, they experience the most painful. Infringements of the right to meet and associate a child with a parent with whom the child does not live are also common, so the result is the manipulative behavior of parents who forget or do not recognize the best interests of their child. And so the child is actually denied the right to care of both parents. I didn't want to get involved with the rectification of the allegations, but I will tell you that in that sense there are also laws on equal joint and agreed parental care and they have already brought some positive developments and we hope that new positive and good fruits will be born in the future. The programme of providing advisory and practical support to the family is also foreseen by the National Plan for Children's Rights from 2006 to 2012. It should be said that emphasis is placed on the area of child rights violations, family relations, child manipulation, and the role of abstention and the area of violence against children and among children. A major contribution can be made by media that stay away from the sensational way of reporting about specific cases of violence against children and do not provide data from personal and family life. Domestic violence, as well as violence against children and children, has a devastating effect on the destruction of foundations, not only democratically arranged legal and fair but also social states such as the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there is a need to continue to insist in certain cases, but this is not generally, in better and coordinated cooperation between institutions and centres for social care, police and judicial authorities, to make this protection more effective both in relation to the very reporting of violence and the status and position in the procedures being conducted. It should certainly be pointed out that the new Law on Juvenile Courts also pursues modern procedures that are appropriate to the juvenile perpetrator of criminal offences, to the criminal protection of children and to the victim. The lawyer also spoke about it in her opening address. The extended fundamental rights of minors with regard to the non-violence of a person, compulsory defences, new obligations of controlled availability of income, restraining or harassment, and the provision for which the law prescribes the crimes committed to the harm of children are tried by courts for youth, so adults who have committed child harm are very good solutions in this area. The urgency of acting by the police and the state's youth attorney requires the moment they learn about the actions committed to harming the child. In one part of the report, the parent’s enquiries about the child’s duty as a witness and his hearing point out. The same law abolishes a strict form and it will no longer be for the child of torture. This is especially important if a child will have to testify in criminal proceedings when the perpetrator is his parent. The government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of the Interior recognized the problems facing children when being questioned, so that in 15 police administrations there is room for interviews with children to make the child feel comfortable and that how much stress the situation is in. The national strategy against domestic violence for the period 2011 to 2016 has targeted prevention and strategic importance to reach our children who will start their own families in the future. It is particularly important for children with an increased risk of involvement in domestic violence so as not to grow up with a adopted pattern of violent conflict resolution. Consistent implementation of the Family Law and the Law on Raising and Education in primary and secondary schools will certainly reduce violence against children and children, including and respecting parents, and children with the intention of being actors, to be partners in solving problems can make an important contribution to preventing violence. The report reads the inequality of the exercise of the right to personal disability and the work of the body of art. It should be said that the condition for the exercise of this right is not only diagnosed but also functional difficulties as a consequence of the condition or disease. This means that the same diagnosis does not mean the same functional difficulties as the key to the exercise of rights. The aim of the National Strategy is to equate opportunities for people with disabilities from 2007 to 2015 to create a basis for improving disability-based rights for the adoption of new rules and for the same criteria for the exercise of the rights of all persons with disabilities. In this sense, a unique body of art, based on a single list, will be established to determine physical or mental damage or mental illness. Based on such findings and opinions that will be adopted on that body, a person with disabilities will exercise specific rights in different systems. The body would be unique at the level of all Croatia, so it would define a unique way of identifying disability. This assumes the creation of a unique list of damages, amendments to certain laws and the Law on a single body of art and how to determine disability. The report further warns that parents have reported high travel costs for children on islands, so it should be said that all children on islands use the preferential island price of the map and it significantly reduces the full price. The state budget annually allocates around 4 hundred million kunas to subsidise the maintenance of regular public coastal maritime transport. This includes subsidies for the costs of transporting children. Talking about the Ombudsman’s report, not saying anything about children’s homes without proper parental care, would be insensitive. Generally, we must be encouraged by the fact that available capacities are not filled, so it points to the conclusion that the positive effects of the deinstitutionalisation process that the Government is ultimately pursuing. Progress on vocational education has been observed, but the need for further education has also been demonstrated because it is a particularly sensitive group of children who requires a high degree of expertise as well as what requires a high degree of empathy from employees. The Ministry of Health and Social Care shall carry out inspection controls, administrative controls with oral instructions and written reports and shall warn and contribute to the quality of work in each area of jurisdiction, as regards children. Of course, out of his jurisdiction. Positive results have also been achieved when it comes to the equipment of school institutions according to the state pedagogical standard. The deadline is for the completion and reconstruction of secondary schools by the end of 2022. The Government of the Republic of Croatia supports all proposals related to the involvement of local communities, the cooperation of competent institutions and the NGO sector in implementing preventive programmes, the acceptance of national and religious differences with the prevention of peer violence, civic education, support for school staff to address these problems. The government also supports experts who must have a distinct tendency to raise, need and youth policy and who must rule the basic knowledge in the field of social pedagogy, psychology of young people, social work for young people, and all of this is built into legislation. Finally, at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, we agree with the report that we need a child to become more visible, we need to be a partner, that we need to continue and strengthen cooperation between school institutions, state bodies and units of local and regional self-government in order to achieve positive results are increasingly visible each year. In the end, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the 2010 Ombudsman's 2010 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76015	Thank you. Mr. Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76016	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed lawyer with co-workers, respected state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. This report that we are discussing today, which will be supported by the Croatian Peasants' Club, gives us a good insight into how children are treated in Croatian society, how parents, institutions and society are treated as a whole. In the words of those who should support them in growing up and adopting knowledge and developing their potentials. This is also the duty of the whole society, and the care of children and their rights must be constant as well as focused on further improving the quality of life of children, which should not be affected by the ungrateful economic opportunities that the whole world has experienced, and so should Croatia. It should also not depend on political changes to ensure continuity and create preconditions for further improvement. Because when it comes to children, and now we have data on the census, we should say that without children, it is difficult for us to build a safer future for all and these present generations, and how many people these children will grow up to be dependent on, and therefore we have to constantly question whether we are investing enough to give children in Croatia the opportunity to develop their potentials regardless of how much their families are financially insured. In fact, it is our duty to warn ourselves that it should not happen that a child who comes from a family who is faced with financial difficulties, and today such families are becoming more and more unfortunately because, for example, education is in an unequal situation compared to children from wealthy families. It is the same with health care, and children growing up in rural areas should be equal opportunities as those who grow up in the city because it is also one way to stop young people leaving rural space. Unfortunately, as we see from the reports, some children in Croatia are still exposed to violations of their rights. We also warned during the discussion of the 2009 Attorney General's Report about the alarming phenomenon that children are exposed to manipulations by parents who often use them for each other's calculation. Unfortunately, this problem is also apostrophealed in this report, and we believe that all existing mechanisms need to be used to curb such behaviour, or to reduce it to the least possible measure. It is not children’s fault that parents failed to maintain their marriage, and they should not suffer again because of their family breakdowns because of certain manipulations. We also agree with the Ombudsman's opinion on sometimes the wrong evaluation of the welfare center, i.e.... reports or opinions on the basis of which there is a measure of injustice to children, as often such opinions or reports are respected in both litigation proceedings and are the basis for a verdict, which means that judgments can also be based on such often not sufficiently clear or unprofessional opinions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also concerns the fact that some children are still exposed to violence and we feel it is necessary to do so in order to reduce this phenomenon, that is to say, because every child has the right to a safe growth and it is our duty to enable them to do so. In 2010, the office received and acted on a total of 282 reports of violent and neglectful behaviour towards children while such reports in the 2009 report were 259. The neglecting behaviour refers to 66 applications, 216 refers to violent behaviour, of which 83 applies to violence in educational institutions, 75 to domestic violence, and 9 to violence in other institutions. The other 49 applications refer to other forms of violence that occurred outside the family and institutions. Unfortunately, compared to the previous period, there is a significant increase of 62% of the reports relating to violence in educational institutions. Unlike them, reports of domestic violence have fallen slightly. In the total number of reports of violence in 49 cases, it is physical violence, in 33 of psychological violence, in 16 of sexual violence, and in 118 multiple violence against children. We at the HSS Club believe that there is a need for additional engagement of all institutions as well as of the whole society in order for the view that violence of any kind of unacceptable form of behavior to have become present in real life, not just at the level of principle. In that large, not to say crucial, the role is precisely for adults who carry such a model by their unacceptable behavior on their children. Of course, part of the responsibility lies on the media that expose children to unacceptable content, but still depends mostly on the family where children adopt a model of behavior. It is therefore necessary to provide support for the whole family. In fact, data from the Ministry of the Interior are indeed worrying. In 2010, a total of 838 children were damaged by criminal acts against life and the body, and the crimes against sexual freedom and sexual disorder 365 children.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76017	Keep your buddy going, he's going, he's going slow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76018	A total of 1,206 children were damaged by the punishment of abandonment and abuse of a child or a minor, and the violent conduct of 61 children in the family. A criminal act of violence involving a group of crimes against the public order has damaged 90 children, and domestic violence reported as a violation has damaged a total of 3,962 children. Unfortunately, these figures are very large, they don't maintain a reality that's even worse because these numbers must be even bigger. Even worse, the perpetrators remain unpunished, thus allowing them to repeat such acts to the harm of children. The significant number of items covered by this report also refers to the protection of children's rights in the education system. In the past year, the office received 153 individual reports of violations of children's rights to education and education, which is less than in 2009. In all, 267 children were exposed to one of the violations of education rights by the fact that children in the education and education system also experienced other violations of their rights, such as the right to protection against any form of violence. The most applications in pre-school and primary education related to the availability of education and education and mainly to the inability to enrol, inaccessibility of professional associates, difficulty in organising transport, access to appropriate forms of education and higher levels of education. In 2010, the office received 72 reports of violations of the economic rights of children, which is 31% higher than in 2009 involving 157 children. In 34 cases, complaints related to the protection of the right to adequate life and standards, and it was 104 children; 15 concerned protection against economic exploitation, the carrying out of harmful jobs, 2 to children's rights for inappropriate advertising, while 19 concerned the protection of property rights, i.e. the availability of property, and 2 referred to violations of other economic rights. These data, unfortunately, show that some children are, in addition to all efforts to ensure that they are protected by their rights, still exposed to their violation and are therefore tasked with changing this for the better. Although it may not be so highlighted in the report that we at HSS believe it is important to warn of inappropriate contents that children are exposed to daily and which subtly impose certain patterns of behaviour. I therefore welcome the lawyer's efforts to protect children from potentially negative advertising impacts because the pressure of advertisers on children's populations is growing as they are perceived as groups of consumers who are easily targeted by advertising messages. Finally, it should be said that children too will be able to be more aware of their rights and be more able to respect them and influence their respect for them more, and in this sense we do well to consider that the office has taken activities towards empowering children and young people in order to contribute to their own greater visibility in society and their involvement in the decision-making processes affecting their lives. Care about children as we pointed out at the outset is a society-wide obligation and this report is a good guideline that shows us in which direction to act and what to do. Therefore, the HSS Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76019	Thank you. HNS-HSU representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76020	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorneys with co-workers, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. The 2010 Ombudsman's 2010 report is a highly professional and exhausted material. This is, in many of its elements, an excellent study from which it is possible not only to look at the existing situation on the plan to protect the interests and rights of children, or to violate them or ignore them. Moreover, we would say this report, according to the old good practice, also points to the need for further improvement of the situation, to define the most important measures and activities that should be taken at all levels to ensure that the guaranteed rights are respected to a greater extent, and society is further sensitised for the importance of solving the identified and described problems or the consequences that the existing situation creates if the necessary changes are not approached. In this regard, the HNS and HSU Club maintains that the Ombudsman has, since the establishment of this institution, made huge efforts not only to develop the institution as such, to strengthen its capacities but also to build the reputation of the institution and achieve its influence in society. This is also witnessed by countless cases where in particular the issuing of recommendations from the public warning, commenting and proposing a solution has had an impact and helped to better understand the role played by children in the exercise of rights and protection of interests by almost all social actors from families, individuals, educational institutions and other particularly educational institutions, state and local administrations, associations, media, etc. Whether we should remind ourselves that even from the name of the laws that were previously defined with education and the dimension of education, we have thrown the concept of education away from school. How much has this helped us and how much has the opportunity on this plan actually been difficult? Furthermore, how many years are trying to affirm the idea of introducing an education programme for active and responsible citizens in our schools, without success. This shall also be noted by the Ombudsman in this report. Unfortunately, the situation still characterises the lack of engagement of some components of the child care system, especially in implementing pro-active, educational and service family policies, empowering and implementing prevention activities in preventing intolerance, violence and other forms of child rights violations, improving living conditions, education, active and content free time, prevention of socially unacceptable forms of behaviour and other relevant areas which significantly affect the general state and perspective. In this respect, the conclusions and recommendations of the Ombudsman for children in this report are extremely valuable because of the action map which should be taken seriously and of course act on it. It is not good that part of the recommendations has actually been repeated for several years because it proves that part of them is understood declared and that the shifts are still insufficient, and the reactions of the competent authorities and the public in general are still not enough. This has been witnessed by many cases, and most of them has been presented by the Ombudsman in this report that we are discussing today. The HNS-HSU Club welcomes the lawyer's efforts and her expert team in the attorney's office, hoping that the achieved level of quality of commitment and engagement will not be questioned by the upcoming changes in the defence system provided for in last night's debated proposal for a new Law on the Ombudsman. The HNS-HSU club accepts and welcomes this 2010 Ombudsman's 2010 report because our children are and must be even more present in our society with all their rights. The goal set by the Ombudsman is indeed a real effort to achieve in its work. You're not looking for the guilty, but you're primarily dealing with the problems that the HNS-HSU club thanks you and congrats you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76021	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Attorney for Children with Associates. I accept your report and congratulate you on your work. Pointing to failures and revealing weaknesses for me is a warning to the situation, and this should serve us all as a basis for improving everyone, especially when it comes to children. Therefore, we must accept this rather than compromise it in various ways. A little while ago, a colleague spoke about offices and spoke very nicely about them, the opening of an office that was made in some cities. However, these are the houses of children’s rights in my opinion, but this is how these houses are destroyed. In fact, specialised institutions are always more effective because there is direct communication. I think that the spending budget wasn't that big, and in the big system that is now planning the costs I doubt it will actually be the costs that will be intended for what you've been doing, that there will be priorities. You were the only one who did horizontal expansion with these offices that I mentioned earlier. In addition, when we watch who violates rights, child rights violations can be both parents and coaches in sports clubs and everyone else. The question, therefore, is whether the Ombudsman will be able to act outside the institutions of state bodies at all. I think it's easy to erase progress. Today we all praise the reports, praise you, praise the Attorney General's report for people with disabilities, but it's shutting down. Aren't we hypocritical? And recently, we have also voted in favour of a contribution to working with children. We are side by side with developed countries of Europe that respect the rights not only on paper but also in reality, and we also end the paper. The state saves on the weak, saves on children, the disabled, women who are left without a lawyer, and the three institutions, or the protection of human rights. In this way, the lawyer will lose her independence, and in this way certainly without the power, or opportunity she has had so far. The report shows how many new cases have actually been opened, many of which have been reported in violation of individual rights of children. There were family relations, violence against children, among children, joint parental care, injuries in this regard, etc., etc. As for violence against children and among children, these are unfortunately problems that have become very often and priorities of work and councils to prevent crime, etc. As for child injuries in divorces, many parents in conflict forget about children seen in your reports, and the competent authorities do not have effective measures against their harmful actions. Some parents actually neglect and pay child support. Then you see the problem of giving up your own responsibility and transferring responsibility between parents, and also among all the relevant factors involved in education, or where children are moving. Children's harm, of course, and the slowness of institutions in making decisions, ineffectiveness in their implementation. Children are directly damaged and long-term court proceedings and untimely reactions in risk situations. It concerns, of course, the rise of violence in society and concern and what you emphasized by Ms. Attorney General in the opening section, how adults react, that he actually wants no more prevention than more essentially reacting to such behaviour. However, I agree with you that they are underage children and that we must work preventively on this rather than punish it. This report actually shows that it is regrettable that year after year you repeat the same words, and this is also the slowness of the system and the need for efficiency and the transfer of the ball, I will call it a hot potato. I have a feeling that someone who decides on reforming the system and anything about protecting children from reading the lawyer's reports that every year can actually serve us and should be used for changes in the system. When I read this report, I actually see two processes that are obvious. The first process is a general increase in violence in society, domestic violence and among children, failure to identify all systems that should act in a preventive way. The second process that stems from the first one is to strengthen the repressive one, it actually corresponds to children and young people who are completely wrong. I repeat educationally and educationally to children and young people, and that is where we have failed. So there is no systematic education for life that not only includes knowledge but also social skills and has almost no systematic action towards parents in terms of helping to raise and sanction parental dysfunction. I am glad that my colleagues Romana mentioned Rijeka because we should always look at the good examples of other cities, when she mentioned a school for parents who certainly needed all of us in the local community, but also beyond. I repeat, the attorney general has actually brought attention this year to the emotional and psychological manipulation of children, especially during the divorce. In fact, within the system, no one has seriously dealt with such things because family centers are somewhat. However, this is a major problem that leaves deep and long - term consequences because, of course, people with emotional and psychological problems continue to form. I would also briefly refer to the health care section that you state, which is the lack of doctors or teams and specialists of children, psychiatrists and pediatric teams, and also children’s or peddoons, which my profession is fundamentally my profession. Namely, it's a small number of specialists. You know that there's a big problem with oral care, or dental care of children with special needs, and that there's been a lot of inscriptions and I see that you've been getting such remarks here, too. And in 2010, it says a contract was made back in Osijek. However, I think there is a problem with the privatisation of health care, because very often oral surgery and pedodonia are being marred. In fact, I've often seen signs in the media, so it says an oral-surgery clinic for children with special needs. Oral surgery is one thing, pedodonia is another. Namely, the pedodence specialist has specific knowledge and skills to access that population. The dental protection of children with developmental disorders due to specific access to limited labour opportunities and increased risk of pathology is more expensive than regular dental care. A child with developmental disorders should be approached as an individual with specific needs, only then as a person with physical, mental and intellectual qualities. I can see that my red light is already on, so I'm going to skip some kind of, uh, part of it. So, I'd like to point out to the D.A.'s office that the mission you're working on is that you're doing great for the children's improvement. We mentioned all this trouble today. In Croatia there are laws, however not implemented. There is no power for, there we have failed, and then ambassadors, and then all those who work for the benefit of children, and we are also eliminating you as a lawyer and thus reducing power, or reducing efficiency, and we are wondering what we are doing, what our policy towards children is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76023	Thank you. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your children's help with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. In my debate on this report, I'm going to talk about two problems. The first problem that actually doesn't have much of a speech in the report itself. I could even say no, but he was mentioned by a colleague named Jerkovic in her debate on behalf of the SDP club. So it's about underage abusers, so children who are not victims of violence but are self-abusers. It's about a social problem that I think is escalating, and it's just the direct consequence of a very big social problem. So alcoholism, i.e. mass intoxication as an inexorable ingredient of night outs, night parties of the young Croatian population. In fact, there are more and more cases of desperate parents talking to the police, so I'm literally going to say cry protect us, our children are beating us up. Here's what a 17-year-old mother says, so one of the many that's been looking for police protection lately. For more than a year, I suffered the psychological abuse of my underage son, and when the insults turned into beatings, I was forced to finally seek help. Unfortunately, this isn't any isolated case. The police year by year record an increasing number of children who come across their parents with the fact that even in welfare centres, they say this is actually just the tip of the iceberg. Dark numbers in reality are much greater than is said for the very reason that parents are ashamed to talk about it, which they are ashamed to report their own children as abusers. At the Center for Social Care, underage abusers can be said in two groups already. The first ones are the ones who sometimes attack their parents. It's about cases where a minor comes home in the middle of the night in an alcoholic state and beats a parent who has dared to warn him of unacceptable behavior. In most cases, parents don't report the attack to the police. In another group are minor abusers who abuse their parents for a long time. It is about children who are first mentally and economically, and then physically abuse their parents, and parents do not report such situations mostly, and that is what their neighbors or relatives do instead. For such cases, the public finds out only after several years when disturbed family relationships escalate to the extent that abused parents end up even in the foster care system. The most common direct cause of minor abuse, as I was already saying at the outset, was alcoholism, and it is precisely alarming data that shows that children of an earlier age and despite legal bans are mass-consuming alcoholic beverages. In fact, when it comes to the Law on Trade, which we know prohibits the sale of alcohol to people under 18 years of age, it is precisely an amazing reason for this diapazon to be justified by inspection services for non-implementation of the law and not sanctioning offenders, and the most common reason is the alleged inability to identify the identity of an alcoholic drink buyer. However, it is clear and obvious that the hunger of traders for profit outweighed their willingness to give up profits in order to protect children's interests from the harmful effects of alcohol. But what should also be said is that the government is not doing its job in the way we expect it to be, that is, how it should be done. In fact, we're witnessing an incredibly aggressive beer commercial. And there is really no justification for the fact that no implementing regulation has yet been passed that would prevent such all present beer advertising since there is a deadline for the adoption of that regulation under the Food Act expired in September 2009. So it's a job that the government didn't do. Clearly, the ban itself on selling alcohol is insufficient to prevent alcohol consumption among children. It is therefore a good proposal for your attorney to treat child alcohol consumption in a public place as an offence to allow the police to intervene, or report the case to the Centre for Social Care, and that the centre can then help parents change their child’s habits, or in his proper education. Of course, the greatest responsibility for solving this problem is borne by the local community through insurance and more counselling, through quality prevention programmes, as well as by designing a model of better quality youth free time. Another problem I would like to refer to is a recommendation from the Ombudsman to the local self-government units on the need for respect for the rights of children in the Convention on the Rights of the Child related to the reduction of subsidies for the accommodation of children in kindergartens. What is the willingness of units of local self-government to honour this recommendation is very illustrating that out of 556 cities and municipalities and 20 counties whose addresses you sent this recommendation to only 46, so something about 8%, responded to answers, or reports of what they think in this regard to doing so to reduce parent subsidies and kindergarten accommodation. Of course, the lack of response to the defence counsel's recommendation is not due to some kind of ignoring but simply the fact that the largest number of units of local self-government due to poor fiscal capacity, I will say recently literally because of the lack of property, is objectively not able to respect this recommendation and reduce the cost of kindergarten for parents. Indeed, the fingers of one hand can be counted by municipalities and cities that can fully cover the cost of accommodation of children in kindergartens, but therefore almost all units of local self-government subsidise accommodation with more than 50% of their own share in the economic price. Knowing that for one vast majority of local self-government units, paying kindergartens is one of the biggest actually fiscal expenditures. So, there remains this problem of huge differences in the participation of parents in the cost of accommodation of a child in kindergarten and the differences are huge from municipality to municipality within one county, not to mention the differences between individual counties. And this area is actually an area of huge inequality and inequality of citizens instead of being something else, so quite the opposite, to make it an effective intrinsic measure. And here we heard, just yesterday the first DZS data was published on the census results and we see that from a decade to a decade, we're getting less and less. The basic assumption that local self-government provides higher standards for preschool children, therefore also in terms of higher coverage of children in kindergartens and in terms of lower participation of parents in the cost of accommodation in kindergartens is to provide more public money for local self-government. So, an honest and long-promised decentralisation. There's no other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76025	Thank you. At 16,37, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Replica, Madam Representative Sonja Simunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76026	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, you've really highlighted an important problem, I'd just like to maybe complete your debate, supplement it in one piece. Namely, all those young abusers at 16, 17 years of age tended to be prone to alcoholism, who beat up their parents are certainly, very likely, I can even say, and surely at their earliest age, they were exposed to the same negative patterns of behavior and the same comes from unsettled families. And now I'm just wondering if they had a baby lawyer in their childhood, if they could react on time, and probably cases like that would be much less today. I'm just saying this in terms of stressing how important it is for the attorney's office to remain independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76027	The answer to the replica? There isn't. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed counselor for children with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, let me tell you about tomorrow, World Day, or tomorrow is World Day, or World Population Day. All of us sitting here are children and all of us come from family, some of us are more perfect, some less perfect, but whatever they were, they were the foundation of our identity and personality. We draw from our families virtues, strength, support, faith, and power. What would we be without a family? From the beginning of the world under God’s law, the family has been established for the uplifting and raising of man and for the building up of society. I started with this because family is the foundation, and children come from the family and children are what we have to take special care of. In early this decade, the Republic of Croatia was faced with a dramatic decline in the number of newborn children, which reached the lowest number in history with 39 thousand 668 newborns in 2003. Faced with this challenge and the threat of depopulation of our centuries of space, as well as the consequences of drastic cutting of the right to maternity and parental support in 2001 until 2003, the Government of the Republic of Croatia faced this problem in the period 2004 and put the rejuvenation of the population and family at the heart of this country's interests. According to this decision, the government of the Republic of Croatia established a Council for Population Policy in February 2004. The proposal for a national population policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also taken concrete steps to restore the dignity of the family by raising the amount of maternity benefits, extending the rights of parents and births and a positive effect has already been shown in 2004, 2005 and 2006. Why am I saying this? I'm speaking again in the interest of the children. Today we have heard different exhibitions, and especially sad are those who talk about how this government is and this year does not care. And you know who doesn't care? Don't worry about those who tried to belittle that family, and just when it was most needed after years of war, take away that family's right to maternity benefits, cut them off. Well, I mean, we remember very well Mr. Linic's statement when he said, and they're going to have so many maternity benefits, they're not doing anything at home anyway, they're waiting to give birth to children. Today we are talking about children, and it is very important to say that national population policy, along with all of this, is respecting our national historical development, culture and customs and that it promotes the family as a unique, irreplaceable physical, social, emotional, spiritual and economic potential, promotes new awareness of family needs and challenges. What's important is yet to say here's the D.A. I haven't forgotten your report I just started with this to highlight all the problems you're facing. Of course, the empowered office of our attorney for children as well as defenders for people with disabilities see how many cases you've had. This year, 2,000 409. Now the question is, is that because the level of problems has increased? Yes, but I think it's a big thing that they saw freedom to have someone to call, that I can call, that I can urinate, and that's how you're going to urinate. But the government also praises and assesses your report positively, of course accepts it, and particularly says that the example of good practice of this attorney-in-law, counselor for children, is that it has also cited problems but also recommendations in one place so that all together can be seen better. The affirmation of children's rights and social empowerment and protection of children and young people is one of the basic constitutional principles whose implementation is ensured by the implementation of different regulations, national documents, continued work by the government of the Republic of Croatia advisory bodies and by providing financial support to civil society organisations targeted and young people. Let me just say a few words about the laws that concern children's rights and that talk about them. It is the Family Law, then the Law on maternity and parental support. For me, it is important, among other things, that it is possible to use maternity leave both mother and father of a child in all categories of users. Then let us say that all births have the right to maternity and parental support regardless of legal status at the time of birth. There's still a series of things I'm not gonna make, so I'm gonna skip. However, here is what is very important to increase the birth benefits, unlike when they almost halved it in half rather than removed it. So now we have a situation that practically business women who are in the leading places are more likely to decide to give birth because their birth benefits will be identical to their salary for six months. After that, she's on average. But what's important is that women who are not in the farm's working relationship mean in the rural part they get just as much maternity compensation for 6 months in the amount of a thousand 690 kn. We have a law on protection against domestic violence. I think it's one of the laws that restores both family dignity and dignity to children. You tell your colleagues from the opposition from your colleague, we have a lot of laws, don't have them, ask yourself what you did the last time you worked, when you last warned this time it was about kids when you saw a kid late at night at home, who you called back then. When you heard someone in their apartment beating up a kid, who did you call? Ask everyone together and I wonder, all of us together. I wonder too. My colleague Sobol, I'm talking about it because you're saying the laws aren't respected. The laws are there and people should respect them equally and enforce those who work. Of the total 124 measures under the national plan of activities for the rights and interests of children from 2006 to 2012 115 measures shall be implemented. The same thing is done here is international cooperation which is very important, and then a psychosocial assistance programme on children's oncology departments, then a programme of activities to prevent violence between children and young people, a protocol on case conduct, and family centres. Here's what you mentioned about Rijeka, right? The government of the Republic of Croatia is also funding the Family Centre in Rijeka. You spoke, of course, in a good association that took over one role as the family center does, but of course the state or government finances through the ministry. In order to sensitise the public about children's rights, family centres marked a number of important international and national dates. That's what the D.A. knows very well. There's a lot of activity here and tomorrow is such a big day and I think it's important for our kids. By approaching the principle of a convention provision to children and adults as it was done, here it is, for example, by means of a magazine. "Children and society", then participation in the organisation and implementation of international activities, campaigns of different children's campaigns, children's europe for the abolition of the physical punishment of children, a campaign to stop sexual abuse called "1 for 5", then the basis of the call for a permanent mission of the Republic of Croatia to the Council of Europe on a proposal to strengthen the visibility of the Republic of Croatia in the Council of Europe's projects in the area of rule of law. The ratification of the Convention is expected in October 2011. We have a prize for promoting the rights of the child, a prize for promoting the rights of the child that is called, analysis of the situation, then projects of the bus "Smirk Forest", pilot projects. So what's important from the delirious, let's say, concrete activities by the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76029	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76030	Thank you. But I think that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76031	Replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76032	Comrade twilight, if that's exactly what you're saying, why is the situation so bad? You've been talking about national population policy, when they're mentioned and they're calling for documents, then sometimes it's necessary except for the cover and the fact that we have the document and read what it says. Then you would read there that one of the most important measures was through the media presented free textbooks and transportation for children. The first thing Jadranka Kosor did when she became Prime Minister of the Parliament proposed to remove free textbooks for all children and transportation for high school students, and that is what you voted for. Second. When you talk about maternity benefits, child's allowance and Racan's horrible government that abolished birth rights and children. I want to remind you and my colleagues once again that Racan's government and then the majority in Parliament have introduced maternity benefits for all mothers. Until then, maternity benefits were paid only to working mothers. Thanks to this terrible government, the maternity benefit and today for the child's allowance are given to both unemployed mothers and mothers craftsmen and mothers of farmers and mothers in other independent professions, the mothers of students and mothers at school. If you think it's fair that only working mothers get maternity benefits, that only children employed mothers get child benefits and keep that in mind when you spit on those terrible decisions of Racan's government that introduced maternity benefits and child benefits for all mothers and children.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76033	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76034	Thank you, colleague. I see you're very upset, but you don't need to, because I just said that you've cut birth benefits. No one has said that you have abolished them as you have spoken of some of our bill's proposals. However, I must warn you. As for the textbook, do you think colleagues that someone who has a salary of 15 or 16 thousand kuna should get a free textbook, and one who doesn't even have the funds equally? Well, don't you think it's fair for someone to pay... So please be nice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My colleagues.../Don't get along./... please. And as for the Government and Mrs Jadranka Kosor in the field of child care for the Children's Foundation "Croatia for Children" was founded which began in 2009. Well, you see, a thousand scholarships were awarded to students and students during high school education, a thousand scholarships to students and students in the academic year 2010/2011. as well as a tender for the implementation of educational weekend programmes for 2000 primary school children from numerous families in 2010/2011. You don't have to be nervous when it's all very well known.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76035	Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney General. I was particularly interested in this report of yours on a subject that I try to talk about whenever it is an occasion, which is sexual harassment and child abuse, i.e. the problem of pedophilia and child prostitution. This problem is in a terrible increase in Croatia and the figures we are dealing with because of the fact that this is unfortunately taboo topic is certainly not real. It seems that most of the Croatian public somehow thinks as long as something terrible doesn't happen that it's a problem that happens somewhere else and someone else, and then, like I said, writing to the media about some horrible crime of a dead girl in a bush end of the road, about the pimping of minors astounding and menacing the public, it's been talking for two or three days, and that's it. So, in Croatia there is no doubt, this problem is in an extremely large increase. If we compare '91. 43 acts of sexual abuse, in 2000, it was already 400% higher. But as I said, it certainly wasn't real today either. An increase in the number of crime and traumatized children should be put on both the profession and the policy and run campaigns, run some concrete actions, amendments to the law. Unfortunately, however, this is still a tabulated topic, not mentioned, and because of the non-conversation and inaction or lack of action, traumatized children become unhappy, marked, problematic and unadjusted adults. So the victims are the ones who aren't really guilty. However, while the whole of Europe is working to solve this problem, it seems to me that Croatia is somehow asleep in winter and as if it says that we do not have this problem because Croatia has not yet ratified the European Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, which took effect on 1 July 2010. So we've had enough time, but unfortunately we haven't done it yet. There is still no database in the Republic of Croatia on perpetrators of sexual delicacies at the expense of children. Someone might say but we were involved a while ago in an international action called Purgatory, in Croatia it was called Purgatory One, it is true, the police came into possession of terribly large material, incriminating evidence that shows how widespread this problem is in Croatia. Unfortunately, however, no one was eventually arrested. So do we now have incompetent police, do we have a catastrophic judiciary or do we have too smart paedophiles and pimps in Croatia or is there someone protecting someone? So I'm asking the question is, I'm not implying any answer. Since no one has been arrested, and although research shows that 27% of school children are children, the survey has shown that 27% of school children in Croatia have been exposed for example. messages of sexual content online, as much as 10% more than in the United States. That's really alarming. So asking a question is quite justifiable. How is it possible that this whole story didn't eventually get some kind of epilogue in terms of arresting people? So no one was arrested when one of the surveys conducted in Croatia confirmed world statistics that every fourth girl and every sixth boy experienced some form of sexual abuse. So the question is, how are we going to fight this reality? I think the failures of our Penal Code from the plane are visible and the example is very much. A man, for example. who for years sexually abused a little girl got 4.5 years, which was twice the horror that lasted for that little girl. That's unimaginable. I don't know, maybe one of you will still remember one day a 60-year-old from Zagreb's Kozari Boca who served 18.5 years in Lepoglav's Penitentiary for rape and murder of a girl. He raped her, killed her and threw her off the road. Before the murder of that little girl for whom he had been peeling a fine in Leprechaun for 18 years, he was sentenced three times for rape. He was welcomed to close the door for Leprechaun on May 13, 2011, as long as, a month and something. He'll be 60 years old. He'll be back in his Cosara. But the question is whether the system will be able to prevent him from committing another crime that he had committed 18 years ago because he wasn't the first. If then almost 20 years ago because of the war, the system could not deal with paedophiles and rapists, will it be possible today in times of crisis in which police and other systems are chronically lacking in people and money. I think the problem is that the punishments for the perpetrators of these monstrous acts are too mild. Besides, the penalties for most of the crimes in Croatia are too mild and too small. What's even more interesting is what actually drives a man's fear into his bones is the fact that a convicted pedophile after the punishment and the passage of a certain period can do whatever it wants. So, if the convict spent three years in prison and then after spending that period in prison and spending so many more years on the loose, he gets an incredible opportunity. I don't know where that is, maybe there's somewhere. I don't know, I wonder if it's possible there's anything else. Deleting his work from the police file. So you know what that means? In practice, this means that after a certain period of time, a paedophile, a convicted paedophile, can be employed in kindergarten, that he can work with children, not only that, but that he can adopt a child. Well, that's terrible! As I said in Croatia, there is no register of paedophiles. So, you as an employer don't need to know who you hired, and you can't even ask a potential employee in fact especially after he's brought you a certificate of impunity. So you have a big problem because experts think that the paedophiles are recredivists, that in most cases they will repeat the crime. And so the possibility of their crime being wiped out of the file is even scarier. I don't know if you remember in Great Britain many years ago, a daily newspaper published pictures of pedophile. They said, "Here are the citizens, so you have the right to know who lives in your neighborhood and your children." You have the right to know who are the potential danger to your child and your family. Of course it's an extreme. It didn't turn out well, and they stopped doing it because innocent people got hurt. But I think the system can work better and it needs to work better. Surely there are countries that have much, much better regulated something that we have done. Let us learn something from them, and in your report on many occasions you have actually talked so many times about this problem, about the need and the amendment of the Penal Code, about the need to tackle ourselves as a society with this problem very large. Unfortunately, the system sometimes makes a drastic appointment and it stands for someone's life, and the last example that the whole of Croatia has raised on its feet we know very well which is it. The girl we haven't found yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76037	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with one part of my colleague's presentation, but I would correct her saying, which says the whole of Europe works, but the Republic of Croatia sleeps in winter sleep and does nothing. My colleagues, if you have seen data all over Europe, then you will see compared to Croatia that Croatia is not sleeping and that the situation is similar in both Europe and Croatia. And Croatia has already been involved in the campaign because two years ago, the prime minister signed the Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse, and this year, the Ministry of Family and Defence is working precisely on a campaign against the crime, with the agreement being ratified this year, at the end of the year. Many countries in Europe have not ratified it and it is very difficult to find the perpetrator you speak of and about pedophile, especially those who work online. That unsub is very hard to find unless the girl tells herself who he was and finds out about it to the police.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76039	And Mrs. Representative Sunday's Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's the same false quote that she corrected, and Agent Caparin's got my ear closed, too. Croatia sleeps in winter. Well, I would actually ask you colleagues a question, so do you think Croatia would end up here when we closed all negotiating chapters for entry into the European Union if it were possible and that Croatia really sleeps winter sleep. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76041	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76042	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, somehow, I'm gonna keep going on about the same theme that my colleague Romana was talking about. In fact, I'd estimate this report with a very good, very extensive and indeed a report that has peeked into every segment of the child's life and child's rights. In 2010, 2409 new cases were opened, of which 1059 were reports of infringements of individual rights of children and 1350 general initiatives of the Office. So this is all about the activities of this office at the head with the attorney general. It's really coming out of your report right on the subject of this sexual exploitation and abuse one of the only applications you've received. So it's unrealistic and it's unreal in all this debate about sexual abuse, reporting, inability to report, shame, etc. But when you look at the data of the MUP, they're completely different, you get a completely different picture. According to the 2010 MUP, 355 children were victims of this violence. Fornications were 116, sexual relations 69, crimes of satisfaction in front of a child or a minor 54, number of child pornography on the computer system or network 39, rape 25, exploitation of children or minors for pornography 16, sexual intercourse with an powerless person 9, genealogy 10, acts of sexual abuse of position 5. So this data is talking about something else and we can actually put it like you said it was unrealistic and it's just one application. We are signatories to the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse. Sexual exploitation and abuse are considered to have really grown to a worrying proportion, especially through the use of information and communication technologies in both children and perpetrators. The crimes are numerous that appear here, so I'm going to count them down a little bit. The first recruiting of a child to prostitution, forcing prostitution or obtaining a profit, using child prostitution, producing child pornography, offering child pornography distribution, obtaining pornography for themselves or other persons, possession of child pornography etc., etc. An alarming phenomenon of abused children by adults who meet in virtual space, especially on chat websites or computer games. 29 and 30. 11. In 2010, a Council of Europe campaign to stop sexual violence against children was launched in Rome. So, this campaign doesn't last that long and we don't have to worry that we didn't run it because it's been working here for a year. The campaign aims to provide knowledge and practical solutions to prevent and report sexual violence against children, their families, guardians and society, and thus raise awareness of the actual proportions of sexual violence against children. Scientific research in the EU says around 20% of children in Europe are victims of some form of sexual violence. From that, 70 to 85% of the cases are the unsub known to the victim. Look, in 85% of the cases, the unsub is known as the victim. Real proportions are of five abused children, and that is exactly how the campaign is conducted, and that is the actual proportion of sexual violence against children. Is 1 to the 5 or 1 to the 6 slightly significant now, but it's definitely high. New research has changed the image of sexual violence against children. Recently, these acts were considered rare, that perpetrators were generally unknown persons with mental illnesses and personality disorders, that sexual abuse occurs in lower social layers, and that the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim is very rare. In fact, it's all the other way around. Unfortunately, sexual abuse is there in all social classes, groups from higher social classes are skillfully hidden and are really hard to detect. The trauma of children is endless. Will someone around the child notice that something's happened? We can ask ourselves a question. A child who has better social support, who feels the support of parents, will be more confident about experience. However, children who are victims of a sexual delinquent committed by parents or other intimately known person with whom the child has previously been in an emotional relationship much more difficult to verbalise experienced experience or experience because other than the trauma itself is burdened by the emotional relationship with the perpetrator. Part of the parents don't talk, the perception of us is that it's better to let the child forget, better to cover it up, so the environment doesn't recognize it. So, hiding from the environment and getting away from the problem itself at the expense of the child. The total number of sex delicacies committed to the harm of children, minors in the last 5 years, is 2 483. So a really big number. It's hard to find the perpetrator, especially in modern times today, and the one you least doubt can be the perpetrator. One lecture was now when we were in Strasbourg about the perpetrator who was a respected doctor of a particular clinic, head of department in one of the European countries. The other was an intellectual who had made contact with the child online, who called for a meeting, only then revealed who he was. If that kid just hadn't found out who else would've found out? So it's hard to find the unsub and punish him. Not only for us, but here you see Europe, and we say we're not doing anything. By ratifying the signed convention, we will create a database and strengthen the supervision of the rightful perpetrators of gender delicacies to harm children, develop preventive programmes on which this ministry is working, focus on child protection, on better normative arrangements in order to ensure that the perpetrators of the sex delinquent are properly processed through criminal law. We should have their names, we should have their register because then probably wouldn't happen what happens. Unfortunately, here is our Antonija Bilic, whom everyone in Drnis knows, but the perpetrator in the sense of what he does, no one knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76043	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76044	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Caparin, we were kind of talking about sexual abusers, or abusers, the most we talked about today is the perpetrators. I would actually now mention sexual abuses in institutions that we didn't actually mention today, and from the media we read very often about such monstrous stories and abuses, especially in institutions where they are mentally retarded where they are located. We didn't talk about it today. Besides, I'd like to say something about the victims. And exactly the lack of and child psychiatrists is a very bad thing since you should do more work with these victims who feel both hopelessness and guilt and shame and are very often prone to suicides. So I think that such sacrifices, which should be revealed as quickly as possible, would actually be done because such children, or such people, are carrying wounds that are difficult for us to read, let alone what they actually experience every day living with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76045	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76046	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you that we have a lack of psychiatrists, that we should work with victims, but what I would stress should be working on prevention. So I'm already this information that in this report you only have one person who reported it is catastrophic. So in our midst there is no awareness that such a thing exists. As we talked about domestic violence in my Bjelovar, they said there's no us. That's probably what we're saying right now based on this report, so that's not how we do it, but the data says the opposite. So I'd say more like working on prevention, that these kids need to know how to behave, that anyone who stops a truck, for example, in connection with these events today can be a potential rapist even though he's a handsome, young, good driver or maybe what he seems to be around that he never did. And you can actually see that the wrong picture, the best and biggest intellectual, can be that regardless of what a regular driver is, not to say ordinary, but I mean school, can also be a rapist. I'm sorry we didn't mention these homes you alluded to, but as far as I heard it was processed and that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76047	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Attorney General for the Children with Associates. Here, from a series of debates so far, it has already been pointed out that this report that you have presented here today has been really done very professionally, very extensively, but in its good part it gives certain details from which to read or see what these are all the problems in the achievement of children's rights or what are all the phenomena of child rights violations. So, the report really provides a quality overview of a serious annual work of an institution such as yours that deals with a very important problem, and for many of us, this is, in fact, the most important issue of this society, so it deals with our children, it deals with our future. And what's important in this report to read is that the report shows a real state. It's not in any segment to say shaped in a way that I don't know how anyone would like it or that it would keep something quiet. Perhaps, therefore, the government’s opinion, which is now here year by year and year, on the matter of the work of the Ombudsman for children, is growing higher and shows that the government is also beginning to experience this segment, but rather, I would say as some kind of interference or a reluctance factor, because only so far has a single opinion appeared in the public defender, which in some segments said that it does not agree with certain claims. This time it was also about your report, so certain claims did not seem to correspond to the government. But I wouldn't refer to it. It is a question of taking a serious really serious work in a serious area. This report shows among other things and why the question of children's rights is so specific. Which is why the issue of children's rights is so different from the question of general human rights, which is why Croatia's citizens need to observe it differently, so I would say, which is why the prosecutor's office for children is in a certain way specific. Namely, none or almost any law governing certain matters or relating to certain adults cannot be applied directly to children or can be applied in a certain indirect or specific way or specific legislation is required. Therefore, I also believe that it is very logical for me that the whole world of particularly developed countries has devoted so much to the protection of children's rights and that the legislation relating to the issue of children's rights is considered the most sensitive part of the legislation. It is also logical that the protection of children's rights in these countries was said to the most developed countries constantly and strengthening and improving, and that the EU recommendations on such strengthening or promotion or empowerment, regardless of what adjectives used and the work of the Ombudsman for children themselves, should strengthen it that this recommendation is also directed towards Croatia. That's really how it should be in Croatia. I can see from the level of counsel that it is. But unfortunately, I must say that I also see that, in certain cases, not entirely but in the working segments of the institution, legislation is able to follow the Advocate General. Why do I say follow-up and not define things before work starts? Because a whole series of recommendations over these years are here in my parliamentary term this is the third report I've had a chance to read. So over the years, a whole series of your recommendations have often come across either ignoring or simply having no positive effect on what they needed, which is either a matter of legislation or a question of institution's behaviour or a question of respect for the laws we have. So, I guess that's the worst thing that you have laws that are able to do with one simple application to protect certain children's rights are not applicable. Well, I'd say it's a violation of children's rights after all. Therefore, when institutions are not acting or when the legislator does not realize that certain recommendations are indeed a matter that can facilitate the child's right to something he really has the right to do or to stop a violation of the right if the legislator does not realize that this is the case and does not act on these recommendations and that is a kind of violation of children's rights. But you also pointed to what I have previously pointed out and to institutions that do not behave properly and knowingly or deliberately, or I do not know what else to call a long-term difficulty with certain solutions and ultimately to break it all over the back of those weak ones, therefore, over the back of children. But to return only to some of these recommendations. I would point out some that seem really very good to me because they solve some of these I would say simple problems, which are actually, no matter how simple the most important problems seem. In this report you have very analytically cleared all forms of children's rights and you have indicated all the cases you have received regarding certain rights. I would refer here to personal rights and to the question of child restraint as one of the essential personal rights of a child who is very often violated or very often not arranged the way it should have been. So here you're saying that in 62 cases of this total number of 331 violations of the right to live with parents and parental care are related to the issue of abstention and that the trend of growth relative to last year is about 15%. And this is exactly the right thing to do with the problem of long-term and inefficient procedures that regulate that right. And here, in a very clear way, you say that there is no power, indignation and anger of applicants of such complaints because on the one hand they fail to exercise their right to some financial means and on the other hand they do not receive the assistance of institutions. So it's very interesting for me to say two things here, I'm just going to give her a brief reference. So here you state an amendment to criminal legislation as a proposal to impose sanctions that would oblige a abstentionary to work for the common good, and the reward would be paid to a special fund and paid to support a child. It's a common case, I'd say most common in avoiding the right to restraint, if the parent said I don't work anywhere, I'm unemployed, etc. If he's unemployed, then here's a chance to get a job with one of these legal acts and work for the child's benefit. So when a particular proposal like this is not understood as a proposal that can therefore contribute to the improvement of this existential part of a child's life, then I really don't know what else. There are also a whole series of recommendations, I see that the light has already been lit, such as the proposal to respect a certain social status of the family, so that the amount of this restraint that the social care centres will take over, extend to longer than, for some indefinite period of time until the issue of restraint is resolved and the amount is increased. It's also a concrete proposal, and I don't see why he's a problem that he hasn't entered any legislation yet, and I'm not talking about that you've given a whole series of recommendations in the area of violence that haven't been properly addressed yet. Your Honor, Madam Attorney, I, of course, support this report of yours, your work, and I hope that these proposed changes that we all talked about, here I am yesterday, will have no impact on your work, or that you will see that the issue of children's rights is too important to be resolved in this way overnight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76049	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76050	Thank you. It is no secret that violence greatly determines the essence of our life, not only in Croatia but in general, but it seems that we are often not ready to admit that we live in a society that is much more primitive, in a society where at the same time the ideal of family is nurtured, one traditional consciousness, but it sometimes takes the ideal of a family as if it's self-evident that there's a Pater Familias, a male, a home tarzan in which everything is allowed, from beating a woman to beating children. When we talk about violence, we are all sensitive especially to children, but this not only stereotype, but also ours in a society that is on average poorly educated that we often forget, almost tolerating violence as something self-evident, and this is the one who is the home chief. This refers to the violence that takes place in four walls, whose victims are powerless, especially children. When it comes to sexual violence, my colleague Caparin was talking best about the traumas of those children who are exposed to it, and I don't think it's trauma, it's child murder. That kind of violence destroys that person, that person, and I'm personally in prison for life. Our Penal Code doesn't know that category, for that kind of sexual delicacy, so sexual violence against children. So I think if someone's willing to kill some person that society should isolate such a person so they can treat him for life if they need to.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76051	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76052	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Jurjevic, the question of violence against children is I would say the subject of which most people are raising their stomachs and the issue of pedophilia is even worse. I absolutely agree with all your suggestions if they were suggestions or opinions related to the treatment of the perpetrators of such actions. But since I'm already responding to a replica, there's violence by doing and apparently violence by inaction. I wanted to mention it, I didn't get to discuss it. I especially care about where the lawyer pointed out the issue of night outs, the children found in the night outs where in cooperation with the police she got, I'd say just one small piece of data. In fact, it's a question of how far the police have acted. It is an amazing fact that almost 50% of children with parental consent, children under 16 years of age, in the time after 11 o'clock, so at night. We were witnesses back in a very short time that there were a series of tragic events that most tragically ended in those very night hours where there was an observation that the child at that time had happened to be there. So this area of protection of children's rights, and in particular the issue of protection of rights against violence, is so important and so important. So I said, a whole series of counseling recommendations should be considered as recommendations from a person who meets daily not only by reading newspapers and some data, in a serious way access to this problem. Because if a child is now getting out of some kind of violence, then there's a colleague named Jelash, if she gives up some kind of violence now, she won't be violent even as an adult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76053	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76054	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Attorney with her assistants. I listened carefully and actually decided between the two options of my speech for this shorter one is longer, one is shorter, and this shorter would be about like this. I'm gonna go first... a famous, prominent psychologist who said: if we don't stick to what we're saying, we can talk, but we can't teach. [[You don't understand.]] He also said that parenting is not about children but about parents, so we cannot teach children and protect children if we are unable to control ourselves and manage ourselves. And then someone else said that the biggest myth, the biggest mistake when it comes to children and growing up and protecting children, said the myth that birth pains stop when a child is born. So that's when they start. And then I would end up in these quotes with this last one. He says the first time I saw my newborn child, I realized I was heading towards the end. Let's not fool ourselves about children. They're coming into the world to replace us. Now from this whole thing and from this whole debate that was here today you can actually see how much attention and this society and we all give together and we need to give to the kids. I like a Chinese proverb as I started saying things with her and ended up "The fruits of the future are in the flowers of the present." Therefore, here are the lessons taught, and this census will certainly make Croatia a happy country. Croatia will not have fewer inhabitants in the future, but the question is whether it will have fewer Croats. Therefore, it is the responsibility of all of us if we stick to this and if we stick to those who say they believe and attend the church and give importance to the family education of what the Holy Father Pope said about his coming here to work with children, but also to pray with children and to answer them from the reality shows that we view the shameful things we see on our televisions and everything that is offered and what spoils our children is actually propagating immoral and irresponsible behavior. Then if we do, then that's how we do it, then we don't have to fear for the fruits of our future. Here's my support for you on this one exhaustive report. Also supporting the Government of the Republic of Croatia who has given your report an exhaustive opinion, respecting your Report but also giving recommendations and doing what needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76055	Thank you. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76056	Thank you very much. Children worldwide are protected by an entire series of international documents and even by a specialized organisation of the United Nations. Children in Europe are even more protected by a whole series of additional European documents and, in fact, rightly because they depend on how they are valued and how the children depend on their entire existence as a result of the development of society. The school is, excuse me, in this respect is a web site of institutions dealing with children in charge of, if I may interpret, two basic jobs. One job is so-called. The positive dimension of the job, which is to improve and worry about the implementation of existing rights on this second conditionally negative point, is to combat infringements of specific children's rights. School is one of the main institutions in the world especially in the developed world where children's rights are improved. And the school is one of the main institutions in which it seeks to secure the first job in an optimal and maximum safe way. As far as our school is concerned, we're extremely deficited here. The school is very traditional. We can almost tell by the concept of the 19th century. School as an educational institution barely exists. In the school course, in Croatian school course course is conducted in a highly authoritative way and therefore creates authoritarian dimensions of child behavior, in students and pupils and schools are also disappointed by our behaviour here or by the behaviour of our colleagues and colleagues because we failed to provide children with such schooling that would ensure their existence, i.e. employment because we have come to the promise that we will introduce compulsory secondary education or education until the first profession, and we have remained almost one of the two nations in Europe that does not have it in our programme. I am glad that you also mentioned health education or health education in the opening presentation. For God's sake, we've been agreeing for six and a half years to introduce health and sexual education. Even though we have a steady increase in juvenile pregnancy, regardless of what a whole series of children are conditionalally said or students and students need this elemental knowledge about themselves. So we simply do not act on what we declared ourselves, let alone what we should do. We don't have a normative regulation on banning physical punishment. So a whole series of jobs still have to be done first on the normative, and then on the implemented, so on a practical basis that we can talk about some kind of child protection optimism. Violence in Croatian schools is constantly growing. But Mrs. Jelavic, thanks to your Office, who are increasingly recording such cases, or simply because of the actual increase, we won't be able to determine that. But violence in Croatian schools keeps growing. It is inadequate to treat violence in Croatian schools and as far as education authorities are concerned and as far as local communities are concerned, so is we. A recent report on violence in schools in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been written. From Croatia, we couldn't get any data from the Croatian ministry despite three interventions on what is happening in Croatian schools and how this violence is contained. So even at the elemental level, the system doesn't work. The world is increasingly talking about new forms of violence. The world is increasingly saying that statistics show that the increase in physical violence either stagnates or declines, and there is also a great increase in psychological violence, so-called. Bulling and that in psychic violence special forms and cruelty, even spreads belong to cyber bulling. So, that abuse or that physical violence that happens through information and communication technology, and that is why we need to compensate our own deficit and turn to the jobs that torture and occupy us. In all this context, I, of course, thank you, Madam Attorney, for your and your associates and for your work, and of course for this report, which is its consequence. It's not good when the state's bodies are very lagging behind the work of the attorneys, whether they're specialised, whether they're general lawyers, because there's a disparation at that time, a disproportion of what we know is going on negatively and how we act to contain or overcome this event. The worst is, however, when the state prevents the work of the Advocates and Advocates, which we discussed yesterday, and the Croatian case, Mr. Vice President, is already becoming international because a whole series of institutions and even the UN wonders why this conflict and unification is taking place in part and disabling the actions of the Ombudsman for children. There is no European country that has no children's protection institute. There are European countries where children's defenders exist and in which there are ministries for children with very certain reasons. And now we're actually drying up, to say so gently and lightly, and what we've achieved so far and what we have so far. And I don't think that's good at all, and I hope that the legislators of this bill change their minds. At the ultimate consequence of colleagues and colleagues, Madam Attorney, the relationship with the children whether the children are our past, whether the children are our future is actually a relationship to ourselves. It would be very bad if we did something wrong with our children by starting the worst, to be unfair to our children and to lose our future. We are on the best track for this, and I hope that you too will not allow your efforts to happen to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76057	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76058	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Flego, that the issue of violence in educational institutions is seen in the report that the Ombudsman has paid a lot of attention to this, whether it is peer violence or all forms of violence that can appear to teachers, according to the staff, according to inventory and everything else. To a large extent, this is defined by what you have said, to a certain extent it is determined by the influence of parents, the work of parents, participation in the education of students, etc., but above all in the work of professional staff. Unfortunately, we in schools have a great shortage of both educators and psychologists and all of those professionals who could act on such phenomena. It's all a matter of one system you've been talking about for years and what you've been warning your colleagues about, Lugaric. Whether this system will ever function properly is the question. We can only live in the hope that it will be better, and that one programme of primary school, high school and other education will be better rounded up, that's the thing I'd say to a new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76059	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76060	In the belief that the state and general atmosphere in Croatia will change significantly and very soon, I hope that this will happen both in this corridor and in this space. Just two elements as an association to what you said. The school actually becomes a general educational institution, even when it specializes in modern schools in the developed world, teachers, parents and representatives of local self-government, which is only one part of the case, but with parents almost nothing is being systematically done. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Did you throw something at me? ... Well, it's weird that you're looking at me strangely, but the tastes are different. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And secondly, it seems to me that those who participate in the systematic work with the school also profit from that school and profit from them. In that sense, I think we should try and do it very intensely. And secondly, the concern especially about violence is to ensure the school's safety and safety at school. And when we talk about security, then we think about different dimensions, so we also think about the relationship between the school and the general community and the local community, and I also think about the school's equipment, primarily human, so human, and then everyone else. The equipment that's about to contribute to that security, which, I agree with you, is missing and what we've been hearing about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76061	Madam Representative Sonja Šimunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76062	Thank you. At the beginning of this report, there was an interesting letter that I liked, so I decided to read it, a letter from the child to the Ombudsman for the children. He says, "If I were you, I'd scream loudly and loudly if there were kids in Croatia who never went to a basketball game. I'd yell if there were kids who couldn't go on their birthday without buying a present on a check or getting into an even deeper minus. I'd yell that there are children whose fathers or mothers, however, don't want to help their lives because of their own egoism. I'd shout out loud if there were smart kids who didn't make their dreams come true. I mean, schooling and work just because there's no one there to help them. And I'd yell even more, but louder if they heard me to Africa, children who are and there are eager to hear everything I'd say you didn't have us alone yet even though we live in an advanced country where there are both water and food and clothing and clothing, both for whom." I believe that these days many would yell and scream, but already this debate is in the right direction. I'm just going to briefly try to explain, hopefully I'll be clear enough, which is why it's really important that we have an independent body with such a specific jurisdiction, so that it deals with the promotion and protection of children's rights. Why is this so important, and why is everyone talking about it, from Croatian institutions to European institutions? There are more reasons. One of them is that children are future young people, future adults, future members of a society that will certainly have a smaller or greater impact in each of their domains and areas when they grow up. Because personality develops during childhood patterns of behavior are adopted at an early age and usually follow us for the rest of our lives. What patterns of behavior a child will adopt depends on what kind of environment he is in and who his role models are at that earliest age, and we all know that the primary environment is a family. If a child is in a family full of love and mutual respect for all members, a family who takes it very seriously and patiently and experiences its needs that treats him as a small individual, not as an extension of parents, then it is very likely that such a child will develop into a beautiful quality adult. Such a person will then be a good member of society, a good engineer, a good cook, a good politician. They will treat other people with respect, with respect, they will trust themselves and other people, they will know how to conduct a healthy communication that we hear, listen, respect, talk, share ideas and work together for the common good. Imagine such an atmosphere being ruled here in the Parliament and the Assembly? Where we'd end up. If a child has grown up in an environment where he is not taken seriously where he is exposed to physical violence and other less visible and less recognizable but equally painful types of abuse, then it is very likely but not necessary that he will eventually adopt these poor and unhealthy patterns of behavior and continue to carry them on and apply them in his future adult relationships. It's not said without meaning that violence gives birth to violence, and so the vicious circle closes and repeats itself. Children grow up in such an unhealthy and painful family environment if they lose some of the easy factors they often grow up to be bad people. They are also prone to various types of manipulation and destructive forms of behavior as to themselves as to others. From all this to conclude that by actually today's behavior towards children, today's timely protection of children is modeling tomorrow's society. Today, our actions and decisions are affecting the image of Croatian society tomorrow. It's something we all need to be conscious of and be deeply aware of. So today, by our actions and decisions on Friday, by voting in the Parliament for certain laws and every day we influence the image of Croatian society tomorrow. That's why it's very important, I'd say the most important thing for this attorney's office to remain a strong and independent body. Now that we see the enormous importance of respect and protection of children's human rights, protecting against various harmful influences then we all clearly wanted to admit it or not that the abolition of this narrowly specific institution is a cardinal mistake with far-reaching consequences and there is no dilemma at all. Well, it is not without hell that many European institutions, Croatian institutions, numerous experts and associations have addressed the government and Prime Minister Kosor with the appeal that the children's defences should not be touched. Here's a few. Of the European institutions, the European Network of Advocates for Children, UNICEF Head of the Office in Croatia, Department of Constitutional Law of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb with Professor Branko Smmerdel, Department of Family Law of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb Prof. dr.sc. Dubravka Brave, Prof. Dr. Ninoslava Peshnik, Head of the Scientific Research Project on Parenting, Co-ordination of Children's Associations, The Alliance of the "Our Children of Croatia", 13 members of the Children's Council, the Association "Pragma" and many others. It seems that there is something in all of this, and it is essential that this institution, with its very specific powers and tasks, remain independent and strong and that we do not really touch it because the consequences will only become known for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76063	Thank you. Final review, Ms. Mila Jelavic, attorney for the children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76064	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's only in two sentences we'd actually refer to the debate we've just had and the reports we've heard. I'd like to thank you for every discussion we've heard here today on the incentive but also on the criticism, because each of them will be analysed and taken into account. I'm sure every single one of us who does this hard and sensitive work must always find ways and space to be even more efficient. The task is to take care of the overall protection of children, all segments of children's life, to look at the whole, and then to warn those responsible if something is not working in that area, to seek better access to child protection, to insist on the effectiveness of the resolutions and systems of individual institutions and individuals. I hope that behind this discussion the report will follow the obligation of the resolutions to consider and respect the recommendations that have arisen from this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76065	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for gender equality and after that debate if a vote on the debated agenda points is completed at 12:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-30-0.u76066	We move on to the 2010 Ombudsman's report on childcare, the prosecutor's office for children, the debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A 2010 report on the work of the Ombudsman for children is accepted. a year." Let's please get involved and vote on the motion to accept the report. Score. This 2010 report on the work of the Ombudsman for children was adopted unanimously with 99 votes.
