ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-28-0.u80852	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 916. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. We've determined to discuss it in an emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 159, the first and second readings of this emergency procedure, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary Zdravko Krmek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-28-0.u80853	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Water Law, what I want to say at first is that this Law continues to allow commercial extraction of material from our water streams. So once again I want to repeat no sand extraction from Sava, Drava, Danube, etc. I also want to remind us all here that according to the existing Water Act, extraction is permitted but only when necessary. So even so far, we've been able to extract material from our water streams, but only when it was necessary. At that time, we could make a decision through the Government of the Republic of Croatia to move the material within the waterway or we could also decide that the excess material remaining after the deployment would be installed in the embankment or if there was an excess of material to be sold to everyone normally who appeared in that public competition. What I want to say here in particular is that we have one improvement in these additions to the law, which is that when an emergency occurs, which is when there is the possibility of a major wave of water coming in, means the danger of floods, that then a special solution can be brought in by a model and a way to extract application from the water stream, but only in an extremely urgent case. We have also added here a new option, which is to be given to the contractor of works, means that it is obtained through public competition to pay compensation for such sands and all under the sublaw of the Government that will be adopted within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act. I also want to add that in this way, we will reduce the shortage of sand that has appeared on our market and thus also increase our economic activities, especially in the part of small river shipping, and we will open up normal and opportunities to employ people and to create new jobs. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-28-0.u80854	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll make a decision right away. Please engage to see the quorum. I think we agree there's a quorum. Please let's get involved it's better to check it all out here, of course. Is there or isn't there? 70. We're going to have to vote again for a hand-to-hand vote. Please. Who's for this bill of law, raise your hand. Count precisely. Thank you. Against? Restraint? Score. This final bill passed 69 votes for, 60 abstentions and 3 against. We move on to the Final Bill on the termination of the Law on Golf Courses. It was an emergency procedure we determined. P.Z. No. 917 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the subject of the act was received by mail, on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 150. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the report at the meeting, would the Government's representative want to further explain? Ms. Nika Sudarevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-28-0.u80857	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. As stated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on Golf Courses for discussion and adoption. The reason for the same is since December 2008 so to this day this law has not been implemented, and likewise this Law is partly contrary to the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in the section relating to content planning, namely the amendment of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction adopted by this Croatian Assembly on 15 July this year, they stated that they are golf courses with belonging content. On the basis of all that has been made, and on the basis of the fact that this Law is not enforceable, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made this proposal for discussion and adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-28-0.u80858	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Electronic first. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. Please check. I say we have a quorum, so we vote hand-lifting. This is where they signed up. Who is for this bill of law please raise your hand. Count it nicely, slowly and precisely. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The result? This final bill was passed by a majority vote of 69 votes, with 64 abstentions. We are now moving on to the debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the Disband of the Croatian Parliament. The debate, then we'll vote later. The proposal is proposed by the HDZ, HSS, SDSS, National Minorities and the Independent Representatives' Club. The applicant proposed this decision on the basis of the article there is an article, not listed by mistake probably. You've received a proposal for an act on the benches. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. Mr. Hebrang or one of you? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide something a little later.
