ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76611	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you, the amendments and additions to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the bill, are one major amendment that is actually aimed at three directions. First of all, it responds to the Constitutional Court's decision and normatively, means it legitimately regulates the matter that has been abolished by the provisions of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which, by the Constitutional Court's decision on 6 April 2011, which must be practically harmonised by 15 July 2011, required this relatively short period and then intervention in this law. It's one and a very significant direction of change. The second is the one that has passed since October or November of last year, but has been linked to the conclusion of the government since 6 October 2010, and the need to bring Croatia's legislation into line with particularly procedural legislation in administrative matters, the administrative procedure with general law, the General Administrative Procedure Act, and this opportunity and changes have been used, many norms have been amended in terms of the implementation of general solutions and this Law on Free Legal Assistance. The third is what is always good to do, and it is to improve the text when practice points to the shortcomings in its application, and it is done in this law and these changes which are essential, but also much more so I would say legal grooming of nomotechnical expressions but important newspapers. What, when we go, we should, of course, start from the clarification of interventions related to a significant decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, so it is, which is also in several points, which,... is explained in several points and the way the proposer actually adopted and legally proposed a legal solution to this, the legal implementation of this decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, it appears that the most important observation, i.e. the court, referred to the release of a broad, unaccounted for existential issue as conditions for granting legal aid. The reasons, the Constitutional Court thinks that this criterion was unclear, that it is necessary to specify, determine and specify in a brief manner, on very convincing grounds, constitutional law and the reach of convention legislation, convention law and convention standards. That's why the proposer here went on, it worked out by defining the types of legal aid, which is primary as secondary as possible, and thus precisely defined, or much more precisely defined but so far this under quotes is an existential issue. In addition, the existing types of legal aid created and a separate type of legal aid relating to the release of the payment of court fees and the costs of court proceedings, in this way there was an expansion of the type of legal aid and, in fact, the urgency, which is related to the Constitutional Court decision, but also to the intensity of the applicant himself to extend, to extend this area to the users of legal aid. In addition, it was introduced, we are still talking about intervention of the Constitutional Court, and a new system of property criteria for approving the provision of assistance to one standard, and exceptions to that standard, and in all this we are once again coming to a mitigation of property censorship which is probably too high and... has been set up and the Constitutional Court has actually given one opinion that the legislator has used and which is proposed to regulate the legislation in the way the proposer says it, expanding, easing this property and predicting this property censorship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, clearly defined cases, a lawyer may refuse to provide legal assistance to the beneficiary of legal aid, remains very short of the general rule of legal aid, the obligation to provide legal assistance by a lawyer, but not in the way that this has been done so far by calling in part on the Law of Law and the Statute of the Bar, but these refusal criteria are clearly developed by law. A comprehensively regulated process of returning the amount of legal aid, thus eliminating both uncertainty and different access to courts in interpreting this standard, relating to the question of dispute costs, when the beneficiary of legal aid, is represented by a lawyer. Finally, in this section concerning the constitutional court decision, a system of financing legal aid has been arranged in such a way as to abandon the concept of the distribution of funds in advance to the providers determined as a percentage. The new proposal allows for a more rational allocation of funds, but also control of spending within the limits of the possibility of a state budget. What I was talking about in the second direction, in the second part of the coordination, that is, the second part of the changes is related to the terminology... Consistent with the General Administrative Procedure Act, it is worth noting that the term of the manual has been abandoned and changed by a term that has been used more in Croatian legal terms, which is a solution, a solution to approve the use of legal aid, as well as deadlines under this Law on Free Legal Assistance are in line with the intensity, with the spirit of the General Administrative Procedure Act and in favour of a clear user of legal assistance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, the proposed legislative solution extends the range of providers and to state administration offices, as we hold that their administrative capacity is such that they can do so and that it also goes in favour of users. The costs of court fees, the costs of proceedings, are being disbursed and the court's disbursement is being proposed and these proceedings are being given into jurisdiction also to the offices of the State Administration. Finally, the same important newspaper at least precision is in relation to the selection of members of the Committee for Legal Assistance, defined... commissions in front of authorised associations as one of the significant legal aid providers. Finally, these changes and additions seem to have taken advantage of the possibility, in addition to the reaction to the constitutional court decision and harmonisation, the possibility of actual substantive improvements, but also of numerous nomotechnical improvements and corrections, sometimes observed errors in the legal text. Here, in this way, the Law on Free Legal Assistance as a significant newspaper two years ago in our Croatian legal system is actually beginning to live as a living right and to adapt and accept the needs of practice and model itself through practice, but in this way it should be expected that procedures will continue to be simplified and increasingly simplified in practice and that this system will indeed be a comprehensive system in favour of users providing free legal assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76612	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Mrs. Anna Lovrin, chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76613	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the session held on 5 July, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance with the final proposal for a law. The Committee discussed the draft law as a parent working body. In his opening statement, the president pointed out the proposed amendments and additions and the main features of these amendments. In the debate, committee members unanimously supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. The opinion is that the proposed amendments, in addition to the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, also contain a number of other improvements related to free legal aid. An additional clarification of Article 9 has been requested in order to show whether the same applies to persons with disabilities in the exercise of the right to free legal assistance to which a confirmed response has been received from the applicant and, following the debate, the Committee on Justice has unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance with the following amendments: therefore, in Article 4(4) of the words referred to in paragraph B of this Article are deleted. It's a clean nomotechnical device of unnecessary repetition. Amendment 2 to Article 5 — in Article 5(4), letter D is replaced by the letter E from the obvious, this is the correction of the obvious writing error. Article 12(1) is amended as follows: "Article 11(2) of the Guidelines replaces the wording of the decision on the approval of the use of legal aid." The amendment also maintains that authorised associations should not refuse to grant undue legal assistance to the decision-makers on the authorisation of the use of legal aid. And also with this amendment, the termological alignment of this provision of the law is in place. In addition, Article 16 of the Law states that abstention is to be deleted. This amendment establishes that that circle of persons entering by definition the concept of common household, so the circle of persons entering the concept of common household, and then the circle of persons sharing household income must be made possible and then the verification required under this law is made possible. In Article 42(3), paragraph 3 is deleted. Therefore, it would retain an existing provision of legislation that says that the ministry responsible for judicial affairs sets out criteria for the assessment of notified projects. Therefore, not to be able to determine as these amendments were proposed but to determine for reasons why projects must be evaluated according to certain criteria. It can't be that criteria can be established, and then it means that it can do without any criteria. Here, in this regard, with these amendments, the Justice Committee supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76614	Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs. Gordana Sobol, chairman of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76615	Mr. President, Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. At its 53rd session, the Committee on Gender Equality discussed the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance with the final proposal for a law. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative briefly presented the most important reasons for the amendment and addition of the existing Law on Free Legal Assistance. The decision of the Constitutional Court of the individual provisions of that law has declared them unconstitutional. Furthermore, the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia prescribed an obligation to bring the procedural provisions in line with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Changes and additions of opportunities are also to address perceived shortcomings, an advanced system of free legal assistance. The following debate highlighted that the Committee on Gender Equality also discussed the report on the implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and was expected to be included in the draft law at that time. The opinion has been given that for a part of the population, free legal aid will remain inaccessible. The question arises whether civil servants will be sufficiently educated for a discretionary decision on the eligibility of the application for free legal aid or the result will be even more unequal law enforcement. The Advocate-General for Gender Equality reminded of a detailed analysis of the implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance published in the 2010 Ombudsman's Work Report and the remarks and proposals for improvement of the system. Despite the allegations made by the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at this session that the Ombudsman’s objections would be considered to be valuable in the drafting of the draft law, no objection or proposal in this bill has been adopted. It also expressed doubts as to the justification of discretionary decision-making and expressed its view that property and material status should be decisive in granting free legal assistance, not someone's assessment. A representative of the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities warned that the current form was distracting and frustrating, and should be as simple and accessible as possible for all. In the final review, the applicant's representative gave an additional explanation. He warned that the Constitutional Court had set a short deadline for the adoption of amendments which did not leave enough time for a comprehensive public debate on the draft law. Furthermore, he refused to comment on the complexity of the forms for the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the victims of criminal offences are covered by the Criminal Procedure Act. They consider that discretionary decision is necessary in exceptional situations in order to prevent the abuse of the system of free legal assistance. Inconsistency and inequality in the application of the law seek to eliminate the systematic education of civil servants. Following the discussion, the proposal for a conclusion on the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance was not supported by members and members of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76616	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76617	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. In Croatia it is not the time of monsoon rains, perhaps like in Arizona, but this is the time when the laws proposed by the government simply fall. The HDZ majority, with its coalition, accepted despite numerous remarks and justified demands that certain provisions were counter-constitutional in certain laws, did not obey. And now the Constitutional Court is abolishing those laws. Among them is this Law on Free Legal Assistance. And for that reason, the Government has been promoting and proposing amendments to the Law on Free Legal Assistance. This law is another proof of the government's clamper. I don't think any government in Croatia's history has passed so many anti-constitutional laws. And these changes that should be followed not only by the basic principle that rightly must rule, accuracy and determination of the norm, but above all, so this is something that is understood and that should be understood, but in order for the system to improve everything that exactly the Committee on Gender Equality has brought forth by colleague Gordana Sobol. Therefore, that the system should be improved and that this law, in addition to its pompous title, should indeed be in a substantive sense, that the party has access to the court and that it can obtain free legal assistance. Is that so? Is that so, even the coordination of a number of organizations that are currently engaged in providing free legal assistance made their observations. None of them were adopted. When such a debate is opened, the government sends its representative or representative where everything is promised, and tomorrow nothing comes true. So nothing new again. The Constitutional Court has just abolished the provisions of the existing law, since it says that under the conditions for obtaining free legal aid, which were controversial, provisions have also been abolished which determine the circle of users that regulate the distribution of funds for free legal aid and determine cases in which free legal aid can be denied by secondary legal aid providers i.e. The lawyers themselves. A provision that prescribes that the costs of free legal assistance are returned to the state budget if the user receives a judicial dispute has also been abolished. According to our great legal expert and, in terms of the process itself, Professor Krapac, he decided in the decision, the issue is very sensitive especially in the time of the economic crisis. It further says that all these standards are contrary to the principle of accuracy and determination of the legal standard, and it is particularly pointed out that the price of legal aid cannot be an obstacle to the provision of legal aid. The Constitutional Court noted that users of free legal aid are simply and in a manner where such legal aid is provided in view of the specific means necessary and which are given to individual associations can be reconsidered and that they often cannot ask the State itself to pay for such services because they live precisely in houses larger than the prescribed criteria. This was one of the most controversial criteria, so where especially, which is a difficult problem, where we know it's something so life-saving that the seekers of legal aid are precisely our residents from rural areas living in houses greater than 35 square meters, and just so far the limit where we don't see any major shift was exactly a restriction for searchers such legal aid restriction if they live in a house or apartment of more than 35 square meters for each family member. What does that mean? So that every claimant would have to sell his property so that he could exercise his right to justice. Thus, some thinking administratively that drives all these seekers to launch some kind of administrative dispute that they are not even trained to provide them with associations that are involved, to fill out these 9 - page forms so that they can obtain legal assistance. So it's an absurd situation that really reminds us of that "Lia and Birth Basin" where here's the government as a line spreads the porridge and offers birth offered, in addition to words, don't give a nuctation. The simple way things are set up or the government doesn't understand what the problem is or simply doesn't understand the needs of citizens, especially those that are most needed. This procedure for providing free legal assistance must be so simple, of course it must have some limitations, but it must be so clear and simple. Such people cannot be asked to meet such criteria not only in a real, material sense where very high criteria are set so that few can achieve them, and on the other hand, and when they are subject to such rigorous criteria then because of this formal side they do not know and are not valid and many of us could not and could not meet it. That such data were devastating we saw and here was just said by a fellow Sobol who spoke on behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, but we were all able to convince ourselves when a sub-strategic report on the implementation of this law where it was clearly evident that this law had practically experienced its debacle, experienced its breakdown in application. And on that very trail, not only by using itself but above all using both the decision and the obligation to correct all those contradictions, but first of all to achieve the meaning and purpose of such a law that must allow for free access to the citizens of the court. This is one of the fundamental principles, which was one of the basic criteria in Chapter 23, so that everyone can access the court freely, and free access to the court means that financial obstacles or difficult property conditions cannot be an obstacle to a person seeking justice before a court, but also to some other bodies, for example, administrative bodies. In fact, all of the associations registered to provide free legal assistance pointed out that the procedure for giving free legal assistance to senselessness has been selected, that the idea itself has been short-listed and that tens of thousands of kunas that individual associations have received through the basis of competitions from the budget is practically impossible to spend, and that means it is impossible to achieve exactly their purpose, and it has such needs because simply people could not meet these criteria. Hence, more damage was sustained by those who wanted and who organized themselves to provide this legal aid than benefit. In mid-April, the justice ministry deployed slightly more than 2 million kunas to organisations to provide free legal assistance, with an average of around 100,000 kunas. Therefore, in order for them and those who unanimously claim to be able to provide free legal assistance, the applicant, therefore the one seeking such free legal assistance, must receive, above all, a notice from the county administration office approving the use of legal aid. And it is in this segment that these associations and their observations and experiences are complemented by a very negative decision of the Constitutional Court which is just noticing that the largest number of search engines comes from a rural area that is not mobile in this sense that they have their own vehicle. For example, in Sibenik-Knin County, in those individual places where there were relatively and quite a lot of demands, such people had to travel to Drniš or Knin to get that instruction. They don't have the means to get to Drnis and Knin, and they've already given up. So this thing should also be brought down through local self-government units to the lowest levels if we really want to help these citizens. Unfortunately, it's neither done nor tried. The Centre for Peace, Non-violence and Human Rights of Osijek, for example, states that only two people who requested legal assistance from the centre received the assistance. So it's an association that works in the entire area of Osijek County. Only two people could ultimately exercise that right. So, they say, out of 80,000 kunas that we thought was a minimum amount, how many people would address us and what interest he was, we justified the 520 kuna cost. This was the cost of the procedure for these two persons who were able to exercise their right to free legal aid. The Centre for Peace of Legal advice and psychosocial assistance from Vukovar, he is even said to have been a success in processing 10 instructions, so from 86400 kuna they were able to use the legal aid of 2600 kuna. Also, coordination for the free legal assistance it operates in the area of Vojnić, Karlovac, Gline and Iron, where we know that the difficult situation is and what property structure, i.e. the property situation of that population, has not been given a single reference or legal assistance. So these are data, these are fundamental objective things because they are, they are also shown in the report that they are a guideline of the authorities which needs to be changed in this sense, but obviously that government did not care. Therefore, it is clear that the basic objection is that the requirements are high and that the procedure is extremely complicated, more complicated than that of which the party would engage itself without any legal assistance in front of the court or in front of any administrative body. So that's one absurd, then. And what these associations themselves and this coordination association have presented, which is precisely that scope, these are exactly the demands that the Government unfortunately ignored that the scope of providing primary legal assistance to extend to all legal and to all kinds of proceedings. Because for the party, for some who are on the side, who are not in the same property situation for them, it seems to be a meaningless thing, but for the party that life means. We can't deny that these are insignificant things for them. And here it has already been said on behalf of the board that who it is will discretionally determine whether it is an important dispute, an important subject to one party. We can't be so insolent. The power except that it must stick to the principle of determination, the principle of clarity of legal norm, the power if anywhere else in one bill here must show that it has a soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76618	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76619	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's the MP said that all the time the law on free legal aid was passed that the associations had objections. That's right. That government officials promised them everything, and then they cheated on them so they didn't put anything in the bill. Therefore, it is simply not true because the first Law on free legal aid was also implemented in a wide circle of talks with the association. They took into account their observations, but of course not all of them because associations are not their own purpose but are the purpose and purpose and purpose of this Law, which is to enable access to the rights of all citizens regardless of their economic and social power.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76620	Correction Mr Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76621	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's an esteemed colleague who said incorrectly I'll quote her quote. He says, "The Constitutional Court abolishes another law." Well, of course, it wasn't by the Constitutional Court's decision that the whole law was abolished, but by some of its provisions. And just these amendments and additions to those provisions are, therefore, precise, explained and now referred to better legal solutions. And it will remove these new legal solutions a whole series of problems that have indeed arisen in terms of the application of the law itself. So it's not about breaking the law, it's about some of its provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76622	On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76623	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support these amendments and additions to the Law on Free Legal Assistance because we believe that these proposed amendments, hence the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which is now in force for a little more than two years, are actually improving and that the purpose for which it was adopted two years ago is better fulfilled. It is true that this Law, therefore, meets the Constitutional Court's decision that certain provisions of this Law may remain in force until July 15th of this year. And in that sense, that obligation from the Constitutional Court's decision will be fulfilled now. And, of course, these other two reasons for the amendment, and that is to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, but also some improvements in the terms of the law, as well as some of the concerns in the application that have been shown in these two years. It is true that counterpart Tomljanovic said that this Law was not abolished by the Constitutional Court's decision. His individual provisions have been abolished. And here's the thing, even though there's been a throw from the bench that almost all the law has been abolished. It's just not true. Here are two provisions, two paragraphs in two articles and three other articles that I have succeeded in counting have been abolished, and other amendments and additions to laws which are indeed one large number but are not mandatory under the Constitutional Court decision have already been used to improve this legal text and in other parts of the sentence and to introduce some improvements. We heard, there might have been a bit of a missing debate because it was like we were arguing. We had two weeks to discuss the report on providing free legal assistance, so there was a place to count everything that might not have been best so far. But precisely on the basis of these and such reports, where implementation problems have been identified, the result is these changes and complemented before us. Of course, this is the complete solution of the Institute of Legal Assistance under the 2008 Law of one newspaper in Croatia. Therefore, for each new law, a new regulation of a legal area takes some time in practice to confirm and verify it. Now there's two and a half years of use behind us. So we can see from the report that the number of people who asked to use free legal aid has increased by 18% and that the number of free legal aid has also increased. We heard there were a number of problems that people couldn't get free legal aid because it was a strict property censorship. And that's what the report reads. And that's exactly what changes to this law are going on. So, that the conditions for obtaining free legal aid are tempered, which means that neither this condition of the appropriate living space is limited to squares, so there were really such problems that people if they had 10 squares of more living space have lost this right. It is now established under this proposal that it will be considered an appropriate living space if the applicant and members of his household use only one apartment or house for housing, which would mean that they do not have two, three apartments or may be a holiday house, and that they report to funds from the state budget. The property censorship has also been increased to 2 thousand and 700 kuna, which means that today one four-member family can have income, so a clean salary of more than 10 thousand kuna and that it is entitled to free legal aid, of course all of them to receive a child's allowance, etc. do not enter that amount, therefore, and there is an open space for availability and free legal assistance. As regards the Constitutional Court’s decision, what should be said is that the Constitutional Court did not actually go into the measure and in the principle of this law, he merely said that norms were not precise, so we have the first remark in relation to the concept of an existential issue which was not sufficiently precise, the law so far, the law has not been sufficiently precise, so in that sense it is amended Article 5 which now defines what and for which proceedings can be determined, it approves free legal aid, but also says that, in all other administrative procedures, when such a need arises from concrete living circumstances. And what is still to be said is that, exceptionally and from paragraph 1 which speaks when it will be approved and where, before the courts, public legal authorities and grant free legal aid, the court may, at the request of a party which does not comply with this law, grant legal aid for reasons of justice. This is where the general principle and European approach to justice are maintained, but then the decision to do so is left exclusively to the court and the judge to decide. The proposal for these amendments to the laws also specified other provisions which the Constitutional Court pointed to, and that is the new system of property criteria, so as I have already said, are also specified provisions on when a lawyer can refuse to provide legal assistance, in fact, it remains almost the same, only this law is no longer called for by the Law of Law, but it determines the reasons as it is mainly and in the Law of Law of Law when a lawyer can refuse to provide legal assistance. As regards the return of paid legal aid if the party succeeded in the dispute, these provisions were specified by the amendments to this law, and certainly there we heard of any thinking, but surely that when the party succeeded in the dispute and received the compensation of its costs which were spent that it was wrong to keep them to themselves, and that they were paid out of taxpayers' funds, so from the budget, if it had received something in advance, and then the compensation as a party which had succeeded in the dispute was received, then it is okay to return it. And the final remark of the Constitutional Court which said that there was not enough transparent distribution of funds from the state budget to legal aid providers, because so far it has been established that 50% refers to associations for project financing, and the rest of the legal aid providers, so lawyers, are now no longer being determined by the percentage, but it is precise how they are distributed and the spending of State budget funds is monitored. Here we heard a series of remarks about how complicated it is for a citizen to get free legal aid, because there are some very complicated patterns, etc. And the amendments to this law made it as simple as possible, but of course we can't, and it wouldn't be right if the right to free legal assistance had everyone regardless of their economic or social strength, that, in fact, they were benefiting from taxpayers and state budgets. So this is legal aid in civil and administrative matters, because legal aid in criminal cases is resolved by the Criminal Procedure Act, so for those persons who cannot achieve it by their means, so they are not so economically powerful. Access means only to address the first office of the State Administration where those employees in the State Administration will, therefore, refer to the party and certainly fill out the form if the party is ignorant, the party does not have to bring any evidence of the property or lack of property, it will all be checked by the office on its own, so only what the tax administration needs to provide is a confirmation of its income. So I don't know how it might be, perhaps, that in some rural places where the first office of the state administration is away from a particular place to consider possible transfer of power to the administrative bodies of the local self-government units, in order to make it more accessible to citizens. The association’s objections are that they are willing to provide legal assistance, but that there were no, but one or two requests, therefore, of course all, for all citizens equally, under certain conditions of property censorship when they meet these conditions which, by this proposal, are substantially reduced, have the right to free legal assistance. It is interesting that lawyers have spent almost entirely saying so by law, the reserved part, and that is very understandable, because when they get a solution to grant a right to free legal aid, and they need to address the court of law, things will first by nature address a lawyer for such assistance to represent them in court, and it is far more in these cases of requests for secondary legal aid, which means representation before the court, than primary legal aid. This law also introduces a new legal aid provider, which is state administration offices, if they satisfy it with administrative capacity and if they can. I think that's good because they're educated persons, especially in these two years, have passed a thorough education in those offices and there's no reason when the party already comes there to not get legal aid in the part where the office can provide it, which is the primary legal aid. Here is the trail of all these amendments and additions, both by the secretary of state and here, which we have now elaborated and which are actually being implemented by the Constitutional Court, but which extends free legal aid and should be said, except for representations before courts and state bodies, namely how it is now being studied by public-law authorities, that free legal aid includes the release from the payment of court fees and the release from the payment of the costs of the court procedure, which unites and that segment of legal aid that has been determined by the judge so far, so the judge was burdened with non-judicial matters above all, had no possibility, or had a more difficult option of verifying the property of the party and the criteria were unequal depending on the court or judge to the judge etc. This law now lays down the same criteria, this law now allows provisions on free legal aid to be laid down by other specific laws if a specific area so requires. But what adheres to this law for itself is that the provisions of the laws laying down the procedure for the release from court fees and the release from payment of the costs of the court proceedings take precedence over the procedural provisions of this law, not specific laws. Here's how time has expired because of all these improvements in the existing law, and the very concept of the law is well set up with these improvements we will support the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76624	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, Ms. Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76625	Thank you, Mr. President. So this is a bad law, as only the ministry has said about it since 56 out of 67 articles have been changed to the Constitutional Court's observations. So obviously you need to write a new law. However, although the ministry changed 56 out of 67 articles, it also means that it only considered that the bad law was and was bad, they did not make a good law. This law sucks. And based on what the Constitutional Court said, and the Constitutional Court here did not say, only in half mentions the inaccuracy of the statement, and exactly the opposite of what the Constitutional Court does very often did not refrain from technical remarks on the accuracy or inaccuracy of the statement, but is the majority of the text that the Constitutional Court explains its decision refers to the measure. So on poverty, on instructions, in a way of setting criteria, to the inadmissibility of bureaucratized procedures, they even warn you of the need to explore these topics. Thus, the Constitutional Court did not hold back at all on the techniques of the precision of expression but on the metrics. Otherwise, as we discuss this, this is our monitoring. If you remember when we discussed the conclusion of the negotiations and we will have monitoring, we will not have monitoring, so what this monitoring will mean – this, this law and a series of laws that need to be amended, the new ones have been adapted to the content of what will be written in the European Commission's report, which will monitor how the laws are implemented, change and lead to the level at which they can be achieved in fact by what they claim to be achieved and will depend on the Member States to decide whether to postpone Croatia's entry into the EU from 1 July 2013 on a later date or not. It's usually the content of Chapter 35 that defines our monitoring which note bene we finished. This, therefore, is not only about a very important topic concerning the availability of justice but also about a broad topic, which is the EU's availability. This law has a very strange history, and this is that since the beginning of work and was at different stages in the procedure here in the Parliament of me completely unknown and unexplainable reasons it has always tried to prevent as many people as possible from reaching free legal aid. So, instead of conceiving the law so that more people can get free legal aid in full consciousness that anyone who can pay themselves will certainly pay for a lawyer of good, the law has been made since the beginning, fighting people who could possibly ask for free legal help. What's most interesting here is an old rule if something works don't fix it. Free legal aid existed in Croatia and worked well. By different associations and by lawyers. And then she started to regulate the whole series of variations of this law and of thousands of people who asked for free legal help now, of course, she's not asking for anyone because she can't ask. And that information that my colleague Anticevic was talking about was accurate. So you have two men there, three men where you used to have hundreds and thousands of people. And of course people need that help. But they need to understand where I can look for her, what I can look for and what I can get. The law, apparently and the Ministry of Justice was fully aware that the law that had so far been in force was absolutely impossible. Because had it not been known that this law was completely impossible, it would not have changed 56 of the 67 articles. But what changed, and operating with these different variations of this law, is actually from a system where people could get some help and where they had some kind of counseling that they couldn't anymore. So we've arranged it by law that then you have two, three men looking in the same places where you once had hundreds and thousands of people looking for that kind of help. There's usually a detailed analysis, and we should really take it. I mean, a lot of people, international and domestic experts including Professor of the Law Faculty Alan Seljec who is also a member of the DSV who has done a detailed analysis of why this doesn't work, a detailed analysis of why this doesn't work and why people can't get to it, a detailed analysis of why the instructions don't work, and then you, in this law, cancel the instructions and enter the solutions. So it's not a neck, it's a neck. No longer must man go around with a manual but must go with a solution, as if it were easier for him to carry a solution than it was easier to carry a manual. You're asking for consent from housemate Sobol that's in her portfolio, the consent of the household to be searched according to their property condition. There is, of course, an OIB that would have to make it possible. You ask for this consent in a situation where you have domestic violence and now the husband who beats the woman will give who she wants and what the president says, which she does have 3% cases, and 97 are others, will now give consent to review the accounts if she needs help and go to court and break up for example. So, the solutions are listed here that absolutely don't take planet Earth into account so that I don't say real life and what people need it. Well, it's not necessary for people who live with a decent standard under more comfortable conditions, no. It takes people who live in poor conditions, who are poor so they can't even pay for a bus ticket, let alone something else. The main criterion for this law, if you really want it to achieve the goal that needs to be achieved, is that people who can't afford to pay for legal aid, get it. And under these conditions, it is certainly better that one or two of them get through that they would not have all the right, but that 99% of those who need it do not have a chance to get to that legal aid. It is obvious that state offices are not solutions, it is obvious that the solutions are a tour of the terrain, what the notes of the Human Rights Association have been doing. So, a tour of the field that washes clinics, say, work, by these villages in some instance once in six months in every part of Croatia where you have such a terrain, it's not in urban centres, but in rural areas, a tour of the terrain where people are available then the man on the spot. While they even find out where the state offices have to go, there's already experience with these state offices that mostly use a huge bureaucratic procedure, to get these people out, to scare them, and to stop coming and bothering them. It can be said that for some reason we do not want to provide free legal assistance, we do not want to, so we have a different view. Let's say I feel like I should, you don't think I should, okay. but I think it's extremely cynical to say is, is, we provide free legal aid, but we legally arranged it so that unlike what was previously possible, now no one practically without a degree in law school and an average salary of 15 thousand kuna can get to free legal aid. And in that case, if he has a law school and 15 thousand kuna, then he doesn't meet the criteria, and without that, he can't understand what you wrote to him here. Therefore, my opinion is that this law will experience a huge change if there is a free right to help. So next time, it's not likely to change 56 out of 67 articles, but I know 65 out of 67 articles, so there needs to be a new law. But what's changed here, and the observations of the Constitutional Court are very substantial. They are not technical and only formal, but they are very content and refer you to this content, and in the end there has come a change such that instead of the manuals you have a solution, it does not simplify anything situation, that you have more offices of the state administration and that there is no 35 squares criterion that you would have to sell in order to provide free legal assistance, but now you can have a little more squares and you do not have to become homeless immediately if you want legal aid. So we won't support that law, but the fact that this law is under monitoring and that about the quality of that law and about trying to break something here, I think it's much, much more dangerous than it is for people who won't be able to provide legal assistance. It is dangerous because it concerns meeting the monitoring criteria for 1 July 2013 and if this is done we will not enter the EU on 1 July 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76626	Thank you. We've got corrections. First Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76627	Thank you very much. A series of incorrect allegations, but here's at least one. That 53 articles in this law have been amended in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, incorrectly. The Constitutional Court shall, by letter and by number, terminate two whole articles and three paragraphs in three articles. That's what abolishes the Constitutional Court. The truth is, we've spoken quite extensively here and the secretary of state and I've talked about the reasons for these other changes. Another great inaccuracy, that until this law was passed, the system of free legal aid worked well and was available. I would ask by whose information well, exclusively by the information of associations that without any criteria or qualifications provided legal assistance, not by the parties and citizens. And if you're in favour of the state budget, the state budget and taxpayer's money being spent without any control in a way that gives 400 to one association, I won't name it, 400 thousand kuna, and that in the 2008 report on money spent there, we've provided legal aid 358 times. Who, how, why, what, nowhere. This is contrary to many other laws of this country on spending budget money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76628	Thank you. We have another correction, Mrs. Representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76629	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is an incorrect allegation of a representative who says: the law is set against people who could exercise the right to free legal aid. That's incorrect. It just happened on the contrary, the law was conceived so that it joined the creation of a new system of criteria, property criteria for the exercise of the right to free legal aid. The standard is also prescribed in relation to the property situation as the main criterion for the exercise of the right to free legal aid, as are the exceptions to the general rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76630	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76631	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Secretary of State. Well, it is certainly good to remember at the beginning that the Law on Free Legal Assistance has been applicable since 11 February 2009 and, in any case, it is important for many citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Justice and its bodies have become available to all citizens on equal terms. No one has ever defended anyone before to pass such a law, either since 2000 or any year that citizens can do so much sooner through the Law on Free Legal Assistance than they have achieved their legal aid. But the easiest thing to do today is to criticize when someone does something. Citizens whose existential opportunities are not sufficient to hire lawyers, this law provides an equal and effective access to justice i.e. free legal aid and representation before the court. Free legal aid shall be determined as primary and secondary. The primary legal aid shall include general information, legal advice, the assembly of certain written submissions, the settlement of the dispute by means of a peaceful out-of-court solution. Secondary legal aid includes representation before courts, peaceful settlement of the dispute before the court and written submissions in court proceedings. The system of free legal assistance is today organised in 20 public administrations in the county and 13 establishments, and legal assistance can be provided by lawyers, associations and law schools through a legal clinic. So far there are only two such legal clinics, one in Zagreb and one in Split. In accordance with the law, the Committee for Legal Assistance as the advisory body of the Ministry of Justice, consisting of representatives of these associations, trade unions, academic community, the Bar Association, the Ministry of Justice, etc., means it is composed of representatives of providers and users of free legal assistance, and it is therefore good that this law just strengthens the position of the Commission, means bodies which in principle manage the system of free legal assistance. Free legal aid is mostly used by citizens in family-law procedures, somewhere in about 53% of cases compared to the total use of free legal aid. The law regulates forms of legal aid, the conditions to be met by the user, legal aid providers, their way of working and financing and issues of supervision of law enforcement are defined. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law under the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia have eased the criterion of the existential issue as one of the conditions for granting free legal assistance. A more qualitative issue of property criteria has been settled, and in line with the reasons set out by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The emphasis is on specific living conditions, and the proposed solutions are in line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The proposed law details and defines the content of hanging litigation i.e. where the expectations of applicants are unreasonable, disproportionate to the real situation, i.e. where the abuse of the application for legal aid is apparent. Detailed issues related to the exemption from the payment of fees and the costs of the procedure have been detailed. So far, the practice of this area has been regulated by the noise of the law, and now it is more quality and more detailedly governed by this proposed law. A more detailed question is the cost of the dispute when the party is represented by a lawyer. The right to full compensation for costs with the basis of the prize and compensation for the work of lawyers in the event of success in the dispute is now clearly prescribed. The terms and conditions and methods of reimbursement of the paid costs of legal aid shall be precisely regulated when the beneficiary has been awarded the cost of the proceedings, assets or income in the dispute. a receipt that justifies such a return. The possibility of a grant grant of 10% of the total legal aid provided in case of exceptional material costs has been opened. All in all, these amendments and additions to the Law on Free Legal Assistance will certainly make this law much more effective in its application. So all these criticisms that are in my opinion don't stand, but it seems to be important, it's important to be criticised, not to really talk about the essence of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76632	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Sobol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76633	Thank you, Mr. President. So allow me, a few things I'd like to say about amending and supplementing the law on free legal aid. In fact, the Law on Free Legal Assistance is intended, I guess it is clear to all of us or should be clear, to those who do not have the financial means to exercise their right, to exercise their right before courts in Croatia, and that, in fact, the spirit of that law should also be aimed at that very purpose. All the reports we've been correcting so far, related to the Law on the Right to Free Legal Assistance, show that I wanted to be recognized or not for free legal aid used in a small number of cases, that the small intended funds for this purpose are not spent until the end. The fact and assessment that the law as such has not been brought to life and that many interested in the exercise of rights through this Law have actually remained inaccessible. We discussed this issue several times in this House, and we discussed the most in the Law on the Right to Free Legal Assistance itself. And I said yesterday at the board meeting that I was actually very sorry today that precisely at that time when the first law was passed, so on the right to free legal aid that then the government had not heard enough of the remarks that came from not only NGOs but also from the level of experts. And I'm sure that's when the government adopted remarks that this law would come to life long before and be accessible to all those to whom it should be made available. There is a fact, as counterpart Pusic pointed out, that the amendments to the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which are not limited here today, were not only limited to those parts of the law that the Constitutional Court abolished as against constitutional aid, but actually go much wider. And given the actual number of articles that are being changed, I am asking whether it was necessary to adopt a brand new Law on Free Legal Assistance. I will limit not just a few remarks concerning the solutions made through this Law, relying on the prosecutor's analysis of gender equality which she has just given to apply this law in her 2010 report. So let's just say that I remind us all that that's when we argued, whether the opinions and recommendations from such and similar reports are respected by the government. But this is because none of the recommendations in this opinion relating to the drafting of a new proposal, i.e. the amendment and addition of the bill, have been adopted I conclude that we are right when we say that the bade ones do the analysis, that the bade ones write recommendations and opinions when those who should respect it or at least show themselves about these recommendations and opinions do not do so. Therefore, the first thing that is seen in this proposal is the amendment and addition of the law, which is that a circle of legal areas is constrained where legal aid can be sought on a regular basis, and a circle of persons who may request the same assistance is constrained. In particular, from the text of Article 5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law amending and supplementing the Law on Free Legal Assistance follows no doubt that the legal text left out the indication of the right to the protection of children and minors, victims of criminal offences and domestic violence, and trafficking in human beings. Therefore, the right to legal aid is limited to civil and administrative proceedings and administrative disputes. This leaves victims of domestic violence without the ability to protect their rights in criminal or criminal proceedings against the violent. A colleague, Pusic, mentioned earlier, that, among other things, as proposed by this Law and the victims of violent behavior should seek consent, namely a statement by his partner who pointed out it so that it could exercise the right to free legal assistance. But since under this Law the victims of violence more violent behavior in the family no longer have the right to do so then, unfortunately, there will be no need to seek even the consent of partners. The Advocate-General also suggested that the right to exercise free legal assistance be extended to the area of criminal and criminal law and that victims of domestic violence and trafficking be allowed to use this type of legal aid to protect their rights in criminal or criminal proceedings. Furthermore, this Act lays down the conditions for the provision of legal assistance. However, it seems that the existence or absence of these conditions will be left to the discretionary evaluation of officials and officials of city offices, state offices. So the question of uniformity of the application of this legal provision is raised. In particular, Article 5a. says that one of the conditions for obtaining legal assistance is that the applicant does not have sufficient knowledge and ability to exercise his right. I ask the question of who and how will determine whether the applicant, the applicant is fulfilling this condition or not and in what way. Whether it requires the possibility of achieving free legal assistance whether it has sufficient knowledge or not. And in the end, what does that have to do with anything? Furthermore, the exercise of the right to secondary legal assistance requires a more complex procedure. Who in the state's office will consider it to be working, that the procedure is complex or simple. That the applicant doesn't have the ability to represent himself. What kind of ability? Business, physical, mental, educational, intellectual, medical or other. That the request refers to something that is obviously unfounded or unfulfilled. What kind of official in all these offices will have sufficient knowledge of the possibilities of the legal system to assess whether it is clearly unfounded or clearly inconclusive. And what I particularly wish to warn you in the context of Article 5a. Paragraph 3 is therefore also referred to as the prevention of litigation of litigation. So let me put it this way. Yesterday on the board, a representative of the proposer, cited an example of some kind of car accident by someone who made it in Serbia, and has dual citizenship or I don't know what he's trying to do now. I'm just gonna say it like this and get it over with. One who does not have financial resources, who does not have enough financial resources to say this is to leave his most existential needs and, in addition, to achieve the right to free legal assistance personally, I do not believe that there would be so much debauchery in this case and that he would risk that possibly losing a lawsuit would have to compensate for the great costs of court. And when I talk about this vengeful litigation, I am particularly asked about that last part of paragraph 3 where you say if the expectations of the applicant are in clear contrast with the final outcomes in similar cases. Please, nice! What does that mean? That an official in a state office will have before him all possible court cases, judgments, and then assess whether these actions are similar to what could be expected to happen in a solution to the application for free legal aid. I think this is, indeed there are absurd solutions to this proposal to amend and supplement the law on free legal aid. Finally, the time limit for granting free legal aid has been extended to 30 days, instead of 15 so far, because it is in line with the Law on General Administrative Procedure, however, because it is precisely the exercise of one of the fundamental rights, through the Law on Free Legal Assistance, I personally support the proposal of the Advocate for Gender Equality, that, when this law is in question, it is, therefore, when it comes to the Law on Free Legal Assistance to introduce a solution to the Sui Genis and that the deadline for adopting the same solution, so it is not 30 days, but when it comes to the deadline for adoption being 15 rather than 30, and if nothing else would remain at least partly the same as before. So according to all that I have said, in line with especially my absolute disagreement with the fact that reports, including these lawyers, are clearly not read for gender equality, and even less respect for recommendations and opinions, I personally cannot give a vote to amend and supplement such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76634	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that in 10 and 51 minutes, it's past 10 minutes' notice. Now we have the first correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs. Representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76635	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here, through the debate, it is constantly withdrawn that the victims of domestic violence will not be able to exercise the right to legal aid for the reason that they will need some consent of the bully to do so. Violence is a criminal offence, therefore legal aid is governed by the Criminal Procedure Act, and certainly every victim will have legal assistance in this regard, regardless of the provisions on property censorship here in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76636	Thank you. And a replica, Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76637	I think the colleague has been very well systematized by the reasons and complicated situations that could actually make this law a law on how not to exercise the right to free legal aid. Instead of simplifying things, instead of allowing people to get that legal aid, free legal aid actually complicates their life. In fact, it will turn out that the NGO sector is more effective than the government sector. I don't know why it didn't come any different. Why didn't an analysis, a fixed framework fund for one year, and then, on that basis, it actually went into the concept of the law. Because this turns out to be the fact that this law aims at making it impossible to get free legal aid. I think what the least the proposer could do is let this law go into another reading, even though I'm not sure it can be fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76638	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So fellow Lucin, one of the basic remarks and stands when it comes to amending and supplementing this Law on Free Legal Assistance, is that it is in fact obvious that the amendments and additions were made at a rapid pace, of course, again, on the grounds that the Constitutional Court had set certain deadlines. However, the fact that a conference was held in the meantime, which essentially brought together all stakeholders, all institutions involved in all of this, and under financial, inter alia, patronage and the international community. And from that conference there are certain conclusions and recommendations, not only from this one, but also from a number of earlier ones, but also from recommendations and conclusions that have been made by both sides, I spoke primarily about the Ombudsman for gender equality, but also from the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities gave a number of objections and concrete amendments, but unfortunately it turns out that the ministry can put any of its proposals on its website and supplement it on the website for 15 days or a month or a month or a half, but obviously all that is discussed and recommended by our government of hearing is gone. And then we come to that, of course, yesterday, a representative of the proposings at a session of the Committee on Gender Equality has already announced that the application of this law will continue to be monitored, so if it takes a few months to re-emerge and supplement the Law on Free Legal Assistance, and so I guess that's the way to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76640	Thank you. We are continuing with an individual debate, and we are coming up with a distinguished representative, Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76641	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance with the Final Proposal for a Law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in the procedure of adoption under emergency procedure. The primary reason why the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to amend and supplement the laws lies in the fact that, by its decision, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia established the non-constitution of certain provisions of the law and Article 5(2), Article 8, Article 10(2), Article 37 and Article 53(2). The amendments and additions to the laws are also proposed for the purpose of improving the system, given the observed shortcomings during the application of the law itself, and I will therefore refer to the most significant changes proposed by this proposal and are contained in the following. The amendment of Article 5 of the Law is proposed in a way that sets out a clear framework for the approval of legal aid by regulating primary and secondary legal assistance, by taxing out the legal aid procedures. In addition, there is also an exceptional possibility of granting legal assistance in all other judicial proceedings, where such a need arises from the specific living circumstances of the applicant. The amendment of this provision shall comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, but also with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The proposed amendments and additions to the law also fulfil the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 6 April 2010 on the review of issues from certain administrative areas and the mandatory harmonisation of procedural provisions with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. A new system of property criteria for granting legal assistance is proposed in order to meet the constitutional principle of access to justice in practice. Exceptions shall also be proposed for applicants who do not meet the necessary conditions as payment of the costs of the procedure could jeopardise family restraint. It is precisely proposed that where lawyers as legal aid providers may refuse to provide legal assistance and the general rule by which lawyers must not refuse to provide legal assistance is maintained. The recovery procedure shall be governed by the amount of legal aid paid and the allocation procedure itself, as well as the exemption from the payment of court fees and the costs of court proceedings. The decision on the system of free legal assistance shall be forwarded to the Offices of the State Administration. I would point out, which I think is important, that all forms of legal aid are exempt from paying court fees and the costs of court proceedings. In view of the opinions put forward, I am of the opinion that the proposed amendments and additions are indeed relevant and will improve and improve the legal assistance system, i.e. make it possible to provide legal assistance more effectively. I will therefore support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76642	Thank you. It's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76643	Mr. Secretary of State, we talked about this issue not long ago when we had on the agenda a report on the approved requirements for providing free legal assistance, and I must say that I am pleased that amendments and amendments to the law have taken place, although I would be happier that because of the changes you have come with a new bill. Because this problem of frequent amendments and the addition of laws already creates a terrible problem not only for citizens but also for those who have to apply these same laws because I am convinced that the consolidated text of this law will not be published for the next 5 years, so we will again have a situation to apply the law with 5, 6, 7, 8 amendments and additions, and no one knows or is certain which version of the law is in force in Croatia. In the report you filed on behalf of the Government, but also in the report of the Ombudsman, there are two things that are the same. The number of people, the number of citizens of this country who asked for free legal assistance or addressed the occupier as a result of the problem, is second and third in total, and notes significant growth already in the past year compared to the previous year. When the figures for this year 2011 are visible, I'm sure that this number will be triple as it was in your previous report and a report by the attorney general. Why did I mention that? It seems to me that we often use one law or the laws of the citizens to bring them to the wall, and then by other law we provide, provide or promise free legal aid. From the content, from the analysis of the content of these requirements, therefore those granted legal aid, but also from the report of the occupier, it was concluded that the largest number of citizens' problems were linked to the incorrect application of the law, i.e. the poor work of the public authority body, whether it was local, regional self-government, state administration or institutions, or an institution with public authority. One such example, Mr. Secretary of State, we've been testifying for six months and I've told you about it last time and tried to point out the need for alarms in public authorities institutions. There is one problem in which citizens cannot claim the right to free legal aid even though their rights are financially, socially and existentially injured. And these are the procedures of the execution. An incredibly large number of citizens are reporting, and that's what the media is telling you if you don't believe me. Citizens don't get an executive order, his account's been blocked, so there's not a single document on the basis of which he would come to the State Office with a request for free legal assistance. Citizens and beyond, secretary of state, don't get executive orders, their accounts are blocked, there's no money to pay 52 kuna on the paper list to find out who and why he blocked him or did his bill. They don't have any money! They know they got the job done, they know their entire account's been blocked, they don't know who's asking for anything or why and where to go? It also happens that in the FINA’s section, employees do not provide full information to citizens, do not refer them to the possibility of opening special protected accounts, and at the time that the part of the income that the law prohibits them from carrying out, maternity benefits, social benefits, child benefits, citizens are at the wall because they simply cannot repay those funds. It happens that communication between FINA and banks is shooting and requests for the opening of a special account do not come to banks and all receipts go into effect. Even under the banking credit agreements concluded after 2008 because we know that we changed the law in 2008 and limited the performance to one-third of the income. There were also a lot of people who appeared in contracts as debtors or debtors had concluded before 2008 when the contract allowed them to agree on the whole account. The people whose disabilityes are blocked, completed. Citizens are reportedly blocked by the bank's 1994 claim account. The day before yesterday, let's say that case. Why did I tell you that? These citizens do not have any documents on the basis of which they would try to protect their interests by asking for free legal assistance. They do not have the financial means to pay to the public authority of the FINA documents on the basis of which to come to the knowledge or fact of who and why. This is a classic example when certain laws and acts of the public authority, we force citizens to ask the state for free legal assistance and are in a vicious circle. I'm kind enough to ask you for a second time, and I'm warning you. In the system of enforcement, neither in FINA nor in banks, savings, credit unions or in the perpetrators, something is wrong. Someone does not know their job or does it properly, and this is possible because the supervisory and control authorities do not respond to the daily fates of citizens who appear in the media. I simply can't believe that the daily examples that come out in public with the name and last name of citizens, with accurate data and situations aren't enough, they're not enough to say good, we realized, we're finally going to watch what's going on. And the latest examples of this is ideal if a citizen, a worker, an employee, loses his job, the banks that gave him credit increase his interest because it's a higher credit risk. This is an ideal situation. People who remain unemployed for foreign banks in Croatia are at greater credit risk, so we now increase their interest. How's he gonna charge them? On top of it. What document did that man appear before the state on the basis of this law to seek legal help? I think that too many cases and fate have been publicly testified that you as the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance for FINA, and the Governor of the Croatian National Bank for Banks, finally large where the problem arose, who is responsible for this and what measures have been taken to improve the system, to correct it, to avoid having 10 or 5 thousand requests from citizens for free legal aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76644	Thank you. And distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76645	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here are my colleagues before me who have explained more and more in detail what this bill is giving us, so I'm not going to repeat myself in that part. I would like to express my support for this bill because it seems to me that in this way how this proposal regulates will increase the number of users who will be able to exercise the right to free legal assistance. In a few sentences, I will look back on the category of people who, even in this previous period, have since the application of the Law on Free Legal Assistance asked for the exercise of that right, and these are persons with disabilities who are poor in property, so those who do not work and who are not able and will probably never be able to do so alone for their lives. I would like to praise this occasion here the provisions of this bill, which also apply to persons with disabilities, although it may be in the articles themselves, and it does not say that it applies exclusively to them, but I read it from these provisions. So, for example, in Article 9, paragraph 2, where it states that, exceptionally, legal aid may be granted to applicants who do not even comply with the conditions set out in paragraph 1, where the property is such that, in view of the actual and intended costs of the procedure, the payment of the costs would endanger the threat of the applicants of the household members' applications. Often and paying court fees and paying the costs of proceedings to persons with disabilities who live on personal disability, other people's assistance, him and so on. they cannot be sufficient revenues and must not be included in the revenue but, until the current law, these receipts were not included in the receipts. So here I am glad that this opportunity was thought of and that I will say the difficult categories of people with disabilities, difficult in terms of material possibilities. However, what seems to me to have yet to be noted here, which is when it comes to assets that will not be taken into account when they will be decided on the authorisation of the application for free legal aid. We know that the apartments or houses that serve the lives of the users are the seekers of this right. However, it seems to me that in one part it should have been a car, and it is up to a certain value described in Article 9. However, this value, in my opinion, amounts to less than 18 minimum monthly basis for calculating the payment of contributions and compulsory insurance obligations. So here I am also, in this sense, proposing an amendment which I believe you will consider, and I hope and accept, which is that in Article 22 of this proposal the law adds something else, which is that this article is also amended and paragraph 3 is not a complete paragraph 3 but that in Article 3 of the 25th of the Law, which will now include a car that is orthopedic, which has to be adapted, so a car that uses a disabled person as an orthopedic aid to the value of 100 thousand kuna. It is realistic that for this price you can buy a decent car that uses a disabled person. Let's not forget it's not just a problem to buy a car, the commands that are installed in the vehicle are not cheap and people with disabilities and it has to be financed. They do not decide too much on such an investment, but those who cannot use public transport funds because they cannot overcome the transfers of carts, buses, wheelchairs, bus seats, trams or any other means of transport are simply forced to use a personal car as an orthopedic aid. Here is the amendment, and I would like to point out that as I have already said I support this proposal because it seems to me that a number of users will still be able to exercise the right to free legal assistance, and that is what is ultimately the goal and interest I trust all of us. So here I am once again pointing out, I support this bill and please Mr. Secretary of State consider this amendment and I believe you will be able to accept it. I point out that he is in line with people with disabilities, so that with their roof organizations, I believe that here you will accept this amendment to their satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76646	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the final word? Yeah. Dear Zoran Piculjan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76647	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you all for a good and comprehensive debate and just a few comments that I think I can actually further and finally clarify the debate. Of course, this law has, first of all, to be determined that by adopting this law, and already one of the MPs, several MPs pointed out, for the first time an integrated legal aid system was introduced in Croatia in the free independent state of Croatia. Of course, the type of legal aid has been before but the legal framework and the system has been put in place for the first time here, based on an analysis done and based on the adaptation and preparation of the system of six months prior to its practical inclusion in this system on 1 February 2009. This should not be forgotten, it is a strong argument and a favorite need and a desire to quality-edit this sensitive matter. The second is about the constitutional decision. The Constitutional Court's decision was repeatedly mentioned here, no one escapes and of course the Proposer was obliged to enter into the text of the law to elaborate the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The same should be said, however, that 20 articles of this Law have been challenged, that 20 articles have been challenged, and that the Constitutional Court has responded only to two articles and three paragraphs in three articles. It is not a small one, but certainly the Constitutional Court has neither by its own pronunciation nor disputed the concept of this law and the system of providing free legal assistance as established by this law. It was also said that this law would be monitored by the European Union in the current procedure until the final entry. So far, it has been monitored by the European Union, the European Commission, and it is one and a criterion for closing Chapter 23, and we certainly do not have to be afraid of this monitoring and implementation of all the rules that we have adopted. In this sense, not only monitoring but improving the existing text has been intervened in a series of solutions that are primarily legal, technical, but then partly and substantially seeing what has not been shown in practice, proved to be too slow, ineffective or which in practice could have been a lot of major improvements. What should be pointed out also that an increased circle of service providers is free of charge legal aid and not by incompetent institutions. I must really react here, after 20 years of working in the Croatian state administration that a circle of people has been continued, a circle of experts marked with insolence and bureaucratic impulses. It is simply not true, and it is not exactly true with the provision of free legal assistance and legal assistance. The Ministry of Justice very closely listens to the citizens' reaction and we have had very few objections, extremely little complaints, and a lot of praise in the way the officials of the state administration's office do and we think that further education, that they are competent enough and that the circle of providers is thus expanded and re-build. Such a solution is also not unfounded in comparative practice. Of course, from comparative practice you can always draw one and the other solution and this solution of the Croatian combined model, a mixed model exists in other countries and is shown to be effective. What is certainly not true, which is that this law narrows the circle of possible users of free legal aid. This law is not... The law, it is also set in the beginning as a law that has high goals which wants to achieve legal instruments in a way that is most effective and therefore is not ashamed of anything. [[You don't understand.]] He simply admits his mistakes he notices in practice and gives them at any political moment. Three months straight, six months before the election, one year before the election, two years ago. He shouldn't be simply politicized. And what seems to me to be the source of all the troubles in everything and all the conflicts, which is whether this Law is in fact well balanced between the relationship between providers of associations as providers and lawyers as provider of legal aid. The best answer is always citizens, users of legal aid. They will always choose quality and they have chosen it. This is where the report's indicators and everything points to that. I repeat, and I'm done. It certainly must be, this system must be perfected but it is not a system. It is a quality system, a system that requires its own processing but a system that is set in favour of end-users and balanced against providers. Compared to the amendments, it's just a statement. As regards the Committee on Legislatives, amendments shall be adopted. As regards the Committee on Justice, amendments are accepted and as regards the amendment of the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukacic, the amendment is also accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76648	Thank you very much. We also have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative of Gordan Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76649	In his final address twice, the State Secretary reiterated, at least twice, that this bill, amendments and additions extends the circle of persons subject to the Law on Free Legal Assistance. I'm asking the question where they are, is exactly what you said, and I'm asking the question where are the women, the children of the victims of domestic violence when it comes to misdemeanours. I guess I'm guessing it's thought that in these procedures it's supposed to be the state that's going to represent a woman mostly in the face and work of a police officer. Oh, please nice, so give me a little bit of a check on how many cases, when it comes to criminal proceedings, the police appear in these proceedings before a court like those who will protect a woman's victim of violence. She's forced to either do it alone or take a lawyer, and she can take it now after this law only if she has money. That's what I'm talking about, and that's what I was talking about in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76650	Thank you very much. I am concluding a debate on this point and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76651	We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 840, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Justice and Advocate Ljubica Lukačić. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am therefore voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority, 74 votes in favour, 26 abstentions and 3 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76652	On the proposal of the Proposer, we propose that point 2 and point 3 be combined. Does anyone mind? There isn't. Therefore, together we will conduct a united debate on points two and three. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 845. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 846. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted to both one law and another by the HDSSB club. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76653	Vice President, just one little clarification and an explanation we need. We'll agree, so we agreed to a united discussion of points 2 and 3. However, will you extend some of the time needed for discussion?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76654	We'll extend to the clubs for 20 minutes as usual. The individual debate is normal for 10 minutes. Yes, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as the promoter of the esteemed Barica Novosel, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76655	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The amendment of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers is related to the new application of the Criminal Procedure Act of 1.9. Of the current 55 state-owned lawyers, the Law proposes the establishment of 34 state-owned lawyers. Namely, by applying the new Criminal Procedure Act, as you know, the investigation is going to the state's attorney's investigation. In order to ensure the application of the law, individual state attorneys who have one or two deputies are unable to ensure the continued duty and work of the state attorneys necessary for the application of these laws, and the other problematic situation is to provide space and equipment for the recording and carrying out of a state-guarantee investigation. So, instead of 55, the new proposal proposes 34 state attorneys who follow it, we will present the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts of the District Courts which are responsible for the trial in the criminal branch of the trial. The law would apply from 1 September 2011. The physical merger of municipal lawyers would take place in 31.12.2019, and the physical merger of municipal lawyers who did not physically merge would act as permanent services of joint lawyers. The second law is a draft on amendments to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts with the Final Proposal of the Law. In part, it is also related to the application of the new Penal Code of 1.9. In particular, the need to change jurisdiction in resolving cases in the area of criminal trial stems from the fact that a new Criminal Procedure Act has been adopted, which enters into force on 1 September 2011. Under the law, every indictment is subject to questioning before the Prosecutor's Council, made up of three professional judges. The accused council, composed of three professional judges after the prosecution has been filed, until its confirmation, shall decide on the determination, extension and termination of the investigational prison and shall decide on the confirmation of the indictment. Namely, of our 67 municipal courts, which, according to the current network of courts, exist, we have a lot of courts where the criminal cases of the court are one or two judges. According to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, which has also taken such a position on the objection against the acts of the accused must be decided by the Council of three judges who are all specialists in criminal law. It is proposed that 34 municipal courts judge the criminal branch of the trial. The second of the amendments proposed by this law is that only municipal courts at the headquarters of county courts should be kept on duty to resolve cases under the authority of family law in the need of out-of-work duty duty. So far, all municipal courts in the territory of the Republic of Croatia have been on duty, and after an analysis has been carried out by the Ministry of Justice, it has been seen that from 10 to 15 cases a year, when cases are coming to court outside of the working hours, and all courts have been on call so far, these are one of the huge resources that the ministry is devoting for their duty, and it is evident from this analysis that these, and when some of them appear, are cases that come into court outside of working time, precisely these larger courts which are municipally in the area of county courts. The third important change in this law is the establishment of a municipal working court in Zagreb, which begins, would begin on 1 January 2011. The discussion of the establishment of working courts is, yes or not, a comprehensive analysis of the inflow of labour disputes on municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia for 10 years. The analysis shows that the number of labour disputes received in the municipal courts in the Republic of Croatia has been settled on one 10 thousand cases, except for years, this may have happened in 2010 when the inflow of cases has increased due to non-compliance with collective agreements. Of these cases received in municipal courts, the Zagreb municipal court receives over 50% of all cases received, and the Zagreb municipal court also has over 50% of outstanding cases of ongoing labour disputes in the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, the legislator also proposed the establishment of a working court only in Zagreb because of the need for economicism and ultimately the legal issue. In the area of other county courts if we take all the cases that come working in the courts in the area of Osijek, Slavonski Brod, Rijeka, if it were a working court for all these cases that come according to framework standards and inflows of cases it would be a working court with two, three judges. The conclusion is that such a court would be uneconomical, that there is no need, because these cases that are in a small number in a short time can be resolved in the present courts. In addition to the municipal working court in Zagreb, it is a court that has an annual inflow between 7 and 8 thousand cases and that would be a court with about 30 judges who would judge exclusively working cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76656	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government, Honorable Representative and Committee Chairman Zdravko Mršić. ... Tinker Bell, good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76657	Dear Vice President, the promoters. We will just report on the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts, with the final draft law, Bill No 846. Therefore, as an interested working body, the Committee considered this law at a session held today. Following the opening presentation of the proposal, most committee members supported the adoption of this law in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. An opinion was put forward to review the solution proposed in Article 4 of the final proposal of the law, in order to consider whether criminal cases against young perpetrators of criminal offences should continue to be resolved by municipal courts in Gospić, Čakovec, Koprivnica, Pozega, Virovitica and Zlatar, given the distance of competent courts to resolve these cases on the one hand and the need for, for example, underage perpetrators of criminal offences to be accompanied by legal agents, i.e. their guardians on the other. The applicant's representative answered several questions raised in the debate concerning the status of judges working in merger courts, the status of land-marked departments of municipal courts, given the proposed changes and the like. Following the discussion, the Committee proposed to the majority of votes the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76658	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76659	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is also the State Secretary's statement that it is clear, among other things, because of the need for the application of the new Penal Code, and it is also about the economy in the Ministry of Justice, so I must repeat that this economy that is spoken of is sometimes questionable for other reasons, and not just for those of which it comes to so-called. rationalization of the network of courts. I repeat here, so I don't know for which times, the inquiry, but I also know how many figures the Ministry of Justice, or the Republic of Croatia has lost money, how much has been paid because of the slow, or unreasonable time-limits of trial, then because of the dislocation of cases, so courts, dislocation of parties and cases, and then because of the disputes we lost in Strasbourg. It's about millions of dollars, I'm talking about the euro, the damages, the money. So, when it comes to economics, it's interesting that these figures are, therefore, precisely for these three reasons that I listed are numbered in several million euros. Now, today we are discussing the rationalisation of the network, i.e. the headquarters of the state's attorneys, and the rationalisation of the seat of the courts, and in connection with criminal proceedings. I would, since it's connected to each other then one by one. So it's about the state's attorneys and we, as I recall a few months ago, had a debate and eventually voted on the rationalisation of courts and all segments, municipal, county and all others. This is a new one I would say rationalisation or restrictions and it is actually a matter of the availability of citizens or those concerned by the state's attorneys or criminal proceedings of the court, physical availability. Namely, when we look at previous decisions adopted by the County Court in Požega, the municipal court in Lipik and Pakrac were attached to the Municipality court of Daruvar, and in the second instance to the County Court of Bjelovar. The County State's Attorney's Office in Virovitica has been attached to Bjelovar, and here's a chance I don't know by which criteria, and that's what the Justice Committees and for, and this other committee. So the two committees also set up as much as I read in my discussions, the Legislative Committee, which are criteria and criteria which were decided to for example. The State's Attorney's Office and the District Court in Đakov will be attached to the State's Attorney's Office in Nasice as well as the Nasice Municipal Court? We had before in connection with Nasic when it came to the Criminal Court the whole debate here was so much that in the end, the Nascans, the citizens of Nasic, were collecting signatures to keep the Nasice Criminal Court and to remain in Nasice without being attached to Djakov. When we look at the number of people in Nash and Đakov, and I count that we are on average according to the needs of the State's Attorney's Office and criminal procedures, let me say that everywhere in Croatia we are equally criminally distributed, then it is quite certain that there are more crimes where there are more inhabitants. It would be best if they weren't at all. Then a city of 35,000 people such as Nashice joins, pardoning Djakovo, belongs to the State's Attorney's office in Nasice, which has 15, 16 thousand inhabitants. But at the same time in another case, it happens the other way around. The same city as Našice is the parish that belongs to the Vinkovites. With about the same population as Djakovo. Now, in one case, it's worth attaching from a bigger city to a smaller one, and in this one, vice versa. So what are the criteria? That Đakovo joins Nasice, I speak of courts, state's attorneys, and the Mayors of Vinkovci. Why don't the Vinkovs join the Mayor? What are the criteria and criteria? You say teamwork, where there are one or two judges missing the one, at least the third one, who would then be in what you said, so he worked according to the 3 Judges' Prosecution Council. Was it not the Ministry of Justice's duty to team up with state attorneys and criminal courts? Is it the Justice Department's job to develop a judicial service? You say space, here's Djakovo's space, for example, that's the problem of space. So it is known that there has been a former Bika Đakovo administrative building in Djakovje for years, i.e. Đakovština, which has been destroyed, it is known that with thousands of tons of wheat etc. We still don't know where he is, even though there's a state's attorney's office that should be questioned. So, state property so-called. "mimosis building" that is collapsing, which could therefore be used as a headquarters and as a place where the State's Attorney's Office and the Criminal Court could be. But we're going to a solution that doesn't really match anyone or Nasic doesn't answer, and the Mayor doesn't answer. The new Gradiška belongs to Slavonski Brod, and you yourself said that Slavonski Brod is really overloaded and that there are cases that are also cases from Požega, so the County Court of Požega is therefore having parts of the intelligence in Slavonski Brod. So, we're working, so I'd say, I'm not gonna tell Sisif's job, but I don't get it. Furthermore, when we talk about arguments, we can also talk about the geographical appearance of a particular county, about the number of residents of a particular county. So, I'm not going to talk about the distribution of criminal acts, I guess it's the same in Croatia everywhere, I guess there's no one who is or is in Djakov's smaller number of cases since there's a good mayor and an archdiocese seat and then moving where there are more, I guess, in Nasice. But I don't think so, there are more crimes and criminal acts in Nasice. So when we look at the size of the county here, let's take an example of the Sibenik-Knin County, I don't mind, there are 2 State's attorneys in Knin and Sibenik. Right? Osijek-Baranja County also has 2. Osijek-Baranja County, which has 330 thousand inhabitants and which is 3 times the area larger than Sibenik-Knin County. Are we still sheep in Slavonia for the haircut and on the matter of the Ministry of Justice and on the matter of judicial bodies and courts? And Vukovar-Srijem County, one of the largest counties and the largest counties in the Republic of Croatia. So you only have the Ship-Posavina County in Slavonski Brod, the municipal state attorney's office is attached to Slavonski Brod, from Nova Gradiška to Slavonski Brod. After all, you know that there are 430 municipalities and 125 towns in Croatia. These are called municipal state attorneys, although they have nothing to do with the municipalities, so it remains an old name. Compared to the county's one lower-level court called the municipal court. And if all of these 55 municipal state attorneys in cities don't have the name city's state's attorney's office, I don't know, it's called the municipal state's attorney's office and they're all in cities. So for 435 municipalities and 125 cities there were 55 municipal state-owned courts. It is now proposed to reduce the number, or as it says, to 34 municipal state attorneys with 15 county state attorneys. The trade court was also subject to the rationalisation network and you know for yourself that the entire Slavonia and five Slavonian counties with 800 and more thousands of inhabitants remained only one commercial court and the one in Osijek. Unlike some other parts of the country in which there is a commercial court on a much smaller population. So what are the arguments that these are criteria that are so managed and, as I say, move or mix cards and distribute both the network of state attorneys and municipal courts and in connection with criminal acts. The parish belongs to Vinkovci, the state attorney's office and the municipal state attorney's office, and then the residents of the Solfery, and you know where it is in the easternmost part of Croatia's southernmost part of Slavonia, where Vrbanja, Strošinci, Soljani, Gunja, Drenovci, Rajovo village, Posavski rati, Đurići is flocking to Vinkovci for court. I hope you and those relations are clear, that space is clear to you. as it was not clear that the previous court in Nasice was abolished, so the people of the Fairicans were to go to Djakovo because he did not tie his seat belt and did not have to pay the fine and must go to the Criminal Court in Djakovo. Thank God that was settled by petitioning the citizens of Nashic with signatures of 2,000 800 inhabitants of Nashica, so there was a misdemeanor in Nasice. What will happen in the future with this practice? Is it in Slavonia and the Ministry of Justice that she became not to say I told the sheep about the haircut, and now I can say, the penal battle, and then this is how it is done, I really don't know. I hope that the citizens will appreciate this. After all, what Mr. Vinkovic mentioned the other day and why he asked to postpone the emergency procedure, clearly when it comes to our Đakovo, the archbishop seat, then when I look only at the question and dream of Ergela Djakovo with Lipik, then the destruction of Đakovština, then the Birthplace in Đakov, here is now a proposal that we did not and no one expected the municipal state attorney in Đakova to join the Nasices which are almost three times less, two times. I say and at the same time, the parish that's the same size as Nashy belongs to the Vinkovites. How does that explain everything? This is why the HDSSB has submitted amendments, so that the municipal state attorney's office in Nasice and Đakov remains, but at the same time because of the number of cases in Osijek, the survival and municipal state's attorneys in Belom Manastir because it is Baranja that is Slavonia and Baranja so when I say Baranja it is one geographical whole, we know where it is located and that by looking at the tradition when I talk about tradition then I need to stress the Court in Požega which one of the oldest courts in the Republic, the oldest. And today he's so shriveled, simply shriveled, rounded that I don't even know the function of that court, starting with the departures of Lipik and Pakrac towards Daruvar and Bjelovar towards Slavonski Brod, etc. And so it also speaks of the tradition of the trial and of the White Manastir. And not only in the White monastery, but also the Court in Valpovo. As a result, the HDSSB has submitted two amendments to each of these laws to remain the municipal state attorney's office in Osijek for the district of the municipal court in Osijek, then the municipal state attorney's office in Valpovo for the district of the municipal court in Valpovo and the municipal state attorney's office in Bela Manastir for the area of the municipal court in Belo Manastir. Furthermore, the second amendment is that it remains the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Đakov for the district of the Municipal Court in Đakov and that it survives and remains the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Nasice for the District Court in Nasice. So there are two amendments to the criminal court in these cities, I say in cities, although they are called the municipal state attorney's office and the municipal criminal court whatever you want. Once again, given the size of the county and the number of inhabitants, there is an example that I have already cited when comparing Osijek-Baranja or Vukovar-Srijem County with two municipal state attorneys, then I must also specify the Sibenik-Kninska which has 100,000 inhabitants, so twice less than Vukovar-Srijem County and three times less than Osijek, and it has the same number of state attorneys and criminal courts. Or the Istrian County, which is also significantly smaller than Osijek-Baranja, also has two state-run municipal attorneys in Pazin and Pula. Which is why Slavonia is with you at such a treatment as the State Secretary and I would like to ask Mr. Bosnjakovic who comes from Slavonia because unfortunately I do not know. We may get answers from you, and I hope these amendments will still mean something, so I'm very interested in what the ministry's opinion on our amendments will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76660	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76661	I just wanted more, excuse me, Mr. Vice President, otherwise the HDSB club will be against such a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76662	Thank you. It is the turn of the SDP club, the distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the SDP club, we expected the government to propose amendments to the Court Act. In Croatia, a significant thing happened, and even those who work in courts do not know, let alone the nationality, that it is simply overnight without any debate and that changes to the Law on Criminal Procedure, rather than amendments to the Law on Courts established by the High Criminal Court, which practically resolves complaints from the county courts. But that didn't happen. I mention this now, not only for the public to be aware of it but also for what was to happen, but the government is full of ideas and suggestions, and then what should happen in 2019 is proposed by emergency procedure. So where's the logic? So, this kind of experiment also works overnight, so where the authorities really serve the judiciary as a polygon for their political experiments, because this problem can be talked about and should be spoken of both politically and legally, but also from a historical and cultural aspect. The move for the emergency procedure is abolished by 54 judicial authorities, of which 33 courts and 21 state attorneys, and this is before the elections. I know that the government would prefer to abolish that court, the court of the public, the court of citizens, but fate won't be able to escape, and so I'm surprised why such an insolence, a harsh insolence against the judiciary. This will lead to a deterioration of the judiciary, not their strengthening. Whether this problem should also be looked at from our own self-evidentity, our survival when certain judicial bodies in one area that have existed for over 200 years we have abolished, and that means our legal history. In the 1990s, we pointed out this very well, and Europe is now insisting and huge resources are being given precisely to regionalisation, the development of smaller areas, just so the population survives in these areas. This is a contribution just to centralization, not decentralisation, but without any sighting of what is meant by the judiciary. The waist notes why the new Penal Code was not first made up. It has been working on it for a long time and let's see what are the crimes of the county, which municipal powers, and only then comes to the order of possibly further rationalization of the network and of the state's attorney and of the courts. This is one logical sequence and it is certain that amendments to the Penal Code should also take place in the existence of certain amendments, i.e. in this Law on the Areas of Courts and the same in the Law on the Seats of State Lawyers. However, the application of the new Criminal Procedure Act should also be considered. It is a municipal jurisdiction which differs and is to be distinguished in this criminal part of the trial from the USKOK and such a grouping of criminal trials in individual courts will result in high costs for the state budget. That this is a quick witness to the fact that, firstly in the reasoning and then in the assessment of the necessary means to implement the law, it is said that no financial means will be needed at all, especially for this year, to postpone all of this for 2019. And when rationalisation is proposed, that is, when proposed and explained, which is why no large funds are needed, then it is said that the state's attorneys are working in courts anyway. And when the whole business is delayed for 2019, and then it is said in Article 6 that special means will be needed for the application of this law. So Article 6 says: The Ministry of Justice will provide county and municipal state attorneys with work space and technically equip the state's attorneys at their headquarters that were formed by merger. So there is no doubt and there is no doubt that any reform, reform procedures, and in particular these require financial resources. Therefore, certain provisions are explained by taking out arguments from the supermarket as necessary, which are contradictory. So that's logical and you can't come out of it when the motion itself is illogical at its beginning. I repeat, the greatest indifference, the urgency of the procedure for something that will happen in 2019. And if we compare the action of HDZ, its coalitions from the 1990s and now after 2004, then we see one similar thing, but with two different sexes. In the 1990s, so many courts have been established under almost every pine tree that has never survived because they have never been provided with any financial means, so neither working conditions nor judicial officials. That was the '90s. And now those who are alive are cut off, and some are cut off by reason that they are not alive. It's as if they can live on their own, as if they were self-involved structures, forgetting that the executive power, that the state is responsible both by the Constitution and by certain laws that say that the government is, and through the ministry, providing the necessary means for the work of the judicial authorities. So, there's something wrong with it. So, let's get back to this criminal aspect of the municipal jurisdiction trial. In no case should we interfere with the USKOK's jurisdiction either of the county's or municipal responsibilities, because then the edge of USKOK's action is relatively relatively. So we here now at this rationalization that happens somewhere and if it happens, but the way the government proposes it happens is about general crime. But it should be noted that if justice is effective anywhere, then it is precisely in sanctioning, i.e. in the conduct of general criminal proceedings through criminal trial. Therefore, why touch something that works well. You don't have any backlogs there, and you boasted in those statistical reports that there were no backlogs. And indeed, that is, the least lag behind is precisely in such areas of trial both the municipal and the county responsibilities. I repeat, and this profession suggests that it is necessary to wait, to see the consequences of the application of the new CAP and then to carry out any rationalisation afterwards. This adoption, i.e. proposals for an emergency procedure on the basis of little facts, little knowledge, and the ones we know that are, which are generally known, speak precisely in favour of not doing so, in support of the fact that no such changes are being made. Namely, the fundamental change in the new CAP is that the first study of suspects is that it has to happen and that it must be recorded why the necessary rooms need to be provided. Some of the state's attorneys or not have them, and there's exactly the reason for this criminal trial. The second newspaper is an examination of the indictment by the accused council in relation to which the ministry states that some courts do not have sufficient numbers of judges for the indictment council, showing indeed one ignorance because there is now an out-of-the-way council in courts which, of course, make up three judges and which make decisions. So the structure is the same and can't be the reason for a criminal trial in one place. In the municipal jurisdiction of the reconnaissances can be conducted by the State's Attorney's Office and the police. Therefore, the police can act independently and act on the orders of the State Attorney's Office, and the police have secured both rooms and technical devices both those mobile and those who are stationary where it would initially be enough for those who do not have space to use the possibility of questioning in the police which, anyway, is the instrument and co-worker of the State's Attorney's Office in such activities by the CAP, i.e. in the reconnaissances. In addition, for questioning, police from their police detention unit would be taken to the premises of the State Attorney's Office, and would return to the establishment of a foreign attorney, to determine the detention that is being remanded in the detention unit or the police. So look at the legal conjecture because it's only looking at the administrative that we're going to courts, how many residents there are, how much cost or cost. Some costs will anyway be borne by some other authority, and you do not see the consequences directly arising from the existing Criminal Procedure Act and what you do to these judges, what you do to these staff, ultimately what you do to citizens and to their legal certainty, and to the defendants. But so are all the participants in the process. Instead, to remain the current state attorney's office and courts, and those who do not have the spatial conditions to conduct the interrogation with the police who are already authorized to conduct them, and this evidence shop itself can do the interrogation of both the suspect and the witness. After all, this is done today in some simpler, less complex objects. In accordance with Article 207. The law on criminal proceedings when law enforcement is carried out by the police under the provisions of a special law and the rules adopted under that Act. Article 208 of the State Attorney's Office may carry out tests on his own or conduct reconnaissances or order these tests to the police. Article 233(2) of the defendants is questioned by a State lawyer or by his order by an investigator. The examinations of the defendants shall be carried out in the premises of a state lawyer or investigator, i.e. the proposal itself states that most of the state's lawyers are located in the courts' buildings, and the state's attorneys who do not have an adequate room of 20 square metres may use courts. In addition, the government itself and the ministry are well aware that a number of courts and state attorneys are seeking to find and use space owned by the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, it hasn't happened lately. So the space there was just needed to get the strength and resources, much less the resources to go into this than that. But you prefer to delay some problems, even if it is for 2019. In municipal courts other than large courts in Zagreb, Split and Osijek, judges are not absolutely specialized. They work in a certain percentage and other objects. After all, and now at such a criminal trial, those old cases, judges who were in charge earlier in the criminal trial, remained in charge of these cases. What does that mean? That the debates will start over because they will only apply to criminal trials where criminal judges will be designated at these lowest levels, i.e. municipal jurisdiction. How old will that go? So, who does this belong to? To those who are guilty, and not to those who are innocent, that we do not talk about citizens who participate as witnesses or repeat other participants in the process. The proposal states that this dynamic of rationalisation will depend on ensuring the necessary working conditions. So it's some experimentation. Justice can't happen. When a proposal is made, material resources must be provided behind the proposal so that the system does not destabilise and deconcentrate in its basic mission. So something's gonna happen to the court if there's money for it. So what insecureness, what insecure insecureness towards the third branch of power. It's simply unbearable to be found in any, as an excuse in any law, let alone in this one. Judges must be focused, not distracted, what will happen tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. So what should have been done is one stability of the system, and you, once it's closed and Chapter 23 closed, you, with such proposals, are extremely deconcentrating and destabilising it. The proposal therefore raises inadequate and unverified arguments, and it really raises the question of when the state's attorneys, but equally if they refer to courts in the criminal part of the trial, so they will be detailed and according to the Rules of Procedure and the Law on Courts, the judicial authority should be of course, so by law you are obliged to ask them for an opinion, and have their consent. This is ultimately a question and a good relationship between the authorities, a matter of decency, and here I am limited to a legal obligation. If rationalisation is to be carried out by the end of 2019, then the question is also raised in our area where some adjustment or suspension of courts and state attorneys will take place sooner, some later, as will the issue of trial, of course by complaints of county jurisdiction. In general, we will have a general disturbance, and this also happened in the application of the Criminal Procedure Act, where certain parts and heads have taken effect in certain stages. That can't happen anymore. And this has caused one great uncertainty, and one more or less clear law in such a way that the successional application has proved to be extremely poor for legal certainty, and above all for one safety of those who are obliged to apply that law. A certain state's attorney's office, and courts that, especially those on our islands, cannot experience the fate of termination, for several reasons. I will mention, because you haven't even remembered the Law on Islands, which speaks about the preservation of institutions on islands, so all that's been going on lately is exactly the opposite of what we've been drawn up with and the population policy, but also what Europe is talking about, and tomorrow we're going to become the country of the European Union is turning the greatest attention to the even development of certain parts, which is so important to us that our survival depends on, and it can't and cannot happen. I will set only an example that the government really does not know what to do with this problem, and should not at all do anything in this segment at all, because in 17.5.2011, there was a meeting in Zadar of the Minister of Justice, the President of the Supreme Court in Split, and the President of the Municipal Court in Supetar, of course the other presidents of the county courts and municipal courts, where, for example, I refer to this example, because it was a really equident example, therefore it was not last year, it was not a clan, it was 17.5.2011. where there are three judges and four judicial advisers in Supetr, and this is a small and insufficient example, and this is exactly what the President of the Supreme Court and Minister agreed on, so it was decided and it was written that in this court to approve two more judges, and you are now abolishing the State Attorney General and the Court. So where's the logic? What's the government doing? What happened to her anyway? Leave the judiciary alone, that's for the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76664	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam and Mr. Secretary of State. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support these two laws, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas of State Lawyers, and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. On the proposal of the Proposer, this debate is united, but it will be necessary to split up the debate a little bit, because it is not essentially equal matter, so in relation to the state's attorneys, we are talking about the merger of state's attorneys in relation to this Law on Areas and Courts, we are talking about regulating the jurisdiction of individual courts and the establishment of a new court. So also the provisions on entry into force, we have heard here that today we are bringing something that will only take effect in 2019, so that's not true. I will now first talk about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of State Lawyers, namely, we heard from the Proposer, since on 1 September 2011. The law on criminal proceedings fully enters into force for, therefore, all criminal proceedings, it is necessary to adapt the entire body of state lawyers to do so in order to be able to carry out it in a quality manner. Therefore, given the provisions of this law, it is also necessary to strengthen human and infrastructure state attorneys, in order to be able to respond to all those tasks which are under the current Criminal Procedure Act, so that there is a significant increase in the capacity of the State's attorney's office. These tasks cannot be answered by small State attorneys with insufficient number of state attorneys, but also by state attorneys who are not spatially and with equipment supplied. The provision that this factual merger will be carried out by 31 December 2019 as far as possible, so that all the joint State Attorney's Offices will start to work fully in their seats is the same as in the rationalisation of the network of courts and state lawyers so far. And we don't see in the implementation of these laws any major difficulties in the field. Let us not, today, but in several laws that we are discussing since the opposition, we are constantly listening to a threat to Europe. We will not have Europe in 2013, because the Law on this free legal aid does not know what is not the way Europe likes it, so we will have monitoring, so we will not go to Europe because Europe wants regionalisation and I do not know decentralisation. I mean, we all know that well, I believe that even a colleague who just said that knows just as well, as the Justice Reform Strategy says, which were criteria in Chapter 23 for opening and closing, which are negotiating positions. Therefore, it is clear that the rationalisation of the network of courts and state attorneys is precisely aimed at a more professional, efficient and faster solution of the case. Therefore, the proposals of these laws are also on the trail. Of course the promoter had criteria for that. The first criterion is in determining the merger of state attorneys, of course, the number of criminal cases in the area of a particular court. And so came this proposal of merger. In relation to the Law on Areas and Courts, therefore the seats do not change here, the courts do not merge, but the jurisdiction for the criminal branch of the trial is determined in those courts which now have the necessary number of criminal judges in order for the defendants to form. We know when we passed the first Law on the streamlining of the network of courts that then there were, of course, certain criteria under which this rationalisation was carried out and then it was found that the smallest number of judges in a particular court would be 5 judges and of course that distance in mileage, except in certain specific conditions of the islands, etc. Of course, if one court has a total of 5 judges who judge in all branches, therefore both civil and criminal, then it is difficult to form these accused councils that will have three judges of professionals and three criminal courts. It is therefore logical that this law proposes that jurisdiction in criminal cases be determined for larger courts which will then have more judges. In this respect, of course, the provision of a law which has established an extended jurisdiction, i.e. a narrowed jurisdiction for certain courts which have not been tried in criminal cases for which a sentence of 5 to 10 years has been prevented, so that provision in the law is unnecessary and should therefore be deleted from the law. There will be no chaos as here we witness that there has been no chaos and no legal uncertainty for the citizens should have come, it did not come because the law on criminal proceedings has been succesfully brought into force. First in one section for all items and then in one part for USKOK objects and here is the final full application from 1 September 2011. But it was always clearly defined by law. So, if it is said about USKOK items under the USKOK Law, any citizen can read very clearly and knows very clearly what these are related to. There should therefore be no legal uncertainty in this regard. As it is now with these transitional provisions, therefore, the proposer did well, that the transitional provisions had been streamlined in a way that there was no doubt about what would happen with criminal cases being conducted in front of municipal courts. So if they are not completed then they will continue, if by appeal they are returned then they will be in accordance with the jurisdiction of this law. It has also been resolved in relation to the proceedings against young perpetrators of criminal offences, also whose jurisdiction is laid down by this law. The issue of this case of the Administrative Court has also been resolved by this law. Therefore, in the decisions given the formation of 4 new administrative courts in the areas in Croatia and the newly established High Administrative Court. It is therefore also settled here with transitional provisions that those cases for which no decision has been taken until 31 December 2011 will be taken by the High Administrative Court. And, of course, one newspaper in this law, is specific to one, which is the introduction of the Municipal Labour Court in Zagreb. In fact, there was a lot of talk, a lot of debate about the introduction of specialized working courts. Given that, although it also says in the PPP, work disputes are of an urgent nature and in the Labour Act, we are witnessing that working courts are not resolved within a period that is of course important for the party because if someone is out of work and without existence, then it is very important for them to be resolved within 6 months and not within 6 years. And although these work disputes were not as often pointed out in public and in performances, 200 thousand cases because 200 thousand have no litigation in Croatia at all, let alone labour disputes, but there are, which is also enough, especially for those concerned, in Croatia according to judicial statistics between 14 and 15 thousand. There have been a lot of debates about whether only the creation of new courts of specialists will be a magic wand by which these cases will then be dealt with faster. As far as Zagreb is concerned, we have a good experience with the Zagreb Municipal Criminal Court, and this has really become an up-to-date court. In view of the fact that of this total number of 15, let us say, 15 thousand working disputes over 7,000 wastes in the City of Zagreb, this solution was, in some ways, shown that a specialised working court was established for the territory of the City of Zagreb, and in other courts, of course, this should be dealt with by specialising courts through annual work schedules or by setting up judicial departments to resolve work disputes. As far as the Zagreb Court is concerned, it is indeed a huge court and it was thought that it should be shared. There is also a municipal court in New Zagreb in law, but it is not yet as a colleague says lively, but no spatial conditions have yet been found for the establishment of that court, or for the beginning of work, it has been established by law. But since the Zagreb Court has about 150 judges, and the first next court around 50 and something more, it is indeed a large system and it is very difficult to organise effective work. So here I think that this is a good solution that, on the basis of the positive results of the separation of the municipal criminal court to a separate court, we can expect good results by establishing this specialised municipal court, the court in Zagreb, which will be appointed judges who will be exclusively engaged in labour law and thus be able to resolve these actions more quality, professional and faster. This is because it is about the laws which trace the criteria and measures set out in the Justice Reform Strategy, since it is about laws that allow the implementation of important, large, important and organic laws that are in this case the Criminal Procedure Act, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76666	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is the distinguished representative of Dragutin Bodakoš. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The second is the distinguished Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76667	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. So here we are talking today about two laws that have several segments or several aspects. First of all, it is hardly surprising that we are surprised that since 1 September 2011, the new CAP has to be applied to the full extent, and we are now deciding which court will be responsible for criminal offences in a particular municipal court. So, I think it was also obvious at the time when the past law or the basic law on areas and courts' seats was passed, and not that we are doing so today for a month and a half before the new CAP is fully applied to do so. As far as the Law on Areas of State Attorneys is concerned, I must say that I will be against this law unless an amendment is adopted which I will submit, and this is about the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Križevci, since the logic was that where there is a municipal court there is also a municipal state attorney's office. Nothing is important now compared to a year ago when we had a law establishing the seats of municipal state attorneys because the Municipal Court in Križevci survives, the municipal state attorney's office is attached to the municipal state attorney's office in Koprivnica, but under this law it will physically remain in the Križevci until 1 November 2019, so the next 8 years the physical people will remain in their rooms, and we will only change the board on that. At that time, it was also proposed to do so so that the Municipal State Attorney's Office would join the Koprivnica, however, then the HSS's hands should have been put under pressure, so it remained that the Municipal State's Attorney's Office remained until the moment we still have to do so, and it seems to me that we are doing it because the monitoring of Chapter 23 remains. Likewise, unless my amendment to Article 4 is adopted. The law on court seats won't be able to support this law. This is about the abolition of municipal courts. However, I think it is quite dangerous and also a dangerous article of the 4th of the law, because Article 4 says that permanent services in Virovitica, Gospić, Požega, Koprivnica, Čakovec and Zlatar will no longer be competent to judge in cases defined by the Law on Juvenile Courts. The Law on Juvenile Courts, which was passed before we changed the seats of the county courts and punished these five cities by abolishing their county courts, said that cases committed by minors and younger minors, or for criminal offences at the expense of minors, are being tried in municipal courts of county courts. In the meantime, we have come to the conclusion that we have abolished the county courts in some places, and at the same time it has occurred that municipal courts in some other cities should now be tried for these cases. However, on 30 December 2010, the contrary to the Law on Juvenile Courts and the Law on Areas of Municipal and County Courts, the Ministry of Justice gives guidance to the handling of municipal courts, saying that despite the fact that it is written in the law of permanent service in Virovitica, Gospić, Požega, Koprivnica, Čakovac and Zlatar, they remain in charge of these cases. Now this law says that we have not joked but that since October 1st, more permanent service, or municipal courts in Virovitica, Gospić, Požega, Koprivnica, Čakovec and Zlatar will not be responsible for the trial of minors and minors. This creates a lot of problems because, for example, as far as the Koprivnica Municipal Court is concerned, there will be no more Council for Young People who acted at the Municipal Court than will be the Municipal Court in Varazdin. For example, from Kloštar Podravski to the court in Varazdin, this minor will need to go more than 100 km with his guardian or parents. Neither the County Court in Varazdin nor the permanent establishment of the County Court in Varazdin in Koprivnica, for example, has an expert associate for the trial of minors but for one and another court, professional associates who are at the Municipal Court in Koprivnica, i.e. at the Municipal Court in Varazdin. The items from this segment, which will now be based on Article 4, will be moved to the Varazdin Municipal Court, which constitute 1/3 of the Criminal Case of the Municipal Court in Koprivnica, so somewhere almost 150 cases were held last year from some 500 cases as received in the Municipal Court’s Penalty Department in Koprivnica. This is about a few important things, so this is about, for example, the works of Article 209. Family law that says it's an act of non-payment of abstention. So it's a criminal offence when someone doesn't pay child support, it's a criminal act of abandoning a child, abandoning, abusing a child or a minor, an extramarital life with a minor, preventing non-execution of child protection measures and a minor. So, it's not about criminal acts of corruption, murder, or I don't know what, it's about something that's been a big problem for families in a difficult material state before. And now this family or those minors, and so I'm talking about the actions of a minor, will need to go 100 miles to come to some kind of right that the state must provide. It is certainly not about efficiency but about cost increases because it is about, for example, the costs of the arrival of experts to the court in Varazdin. These are witnesses, experts, interpreters, professionals, there is a question of travel expenses, there is a question of police detention, because for example the area of Koprivnica-Kristevci County is still a competent prison in Bjelovar, not a prison in Varazdin. So, you're going to have to bring a child or a younger adult from Belovar to court in Varazdin in order to do that to him in Varazdin. So, in the past 13 years as it has been done in the Youth Council at the Municipal Court in Koprivnica, much good has been done and the Municipal Court in Koprivnica has served as one of the examples, i.e. the Youth Council in the Criminal Work of the Municipal Court served as an example. We have two specialised judges just for the trial of minors and younger minors, we have an expert, a defectologist who works at a municipal court who not only participates in this process but also in monitoring the implementation of measures which is extremely important. So here it is not just a matter of implementing the measures but of monitoring the implementation of these measures. And I think Article 4 instead of saying that this will no longer be done in these permanent exposures should go after it to say that the Law on Courts for Young People will be corrected and that in those cities where county courts have been abolished and we have high-quality municipal courts that will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76668	Bring the end. Thank you very much. We have three replicas. First, she is a respected representative of Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76669	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Zvonko, you actually mentioned that in this law we actually saw that there was no logic that actually supported Article 4 with various examples. I would actually say that the move of feathers to this law determined the fates, decisions that do not respect the facts, and the facts of distance, I will actually talk about the Court's decision in Korcula, and the facts of distance, isolation and bad infrastructure, traffic infrastructure, etc., that is, not to mention politics towards islands, because we also know in the Island Act that no institutions will be abolished because of that, because of population policy, especially in Korčula where there are only populations, where there are only burdens, and not to end and work against. According to this, Korčula loses the state's attorney's office, the court in Korčula will no longer handle criminal proceedings, therefore it is a step that goes towards the court's suspension in Korcula in the next phase. Let us remember the bad decision to rationalise the judiciary, the bad decision actually made to carry out the permanent service of the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik, which is actually now that we look very bad and the decision is due to go by seal to Split. Therefore, it may have been better to decide any criminal offences or easier crimes that can be determined in... Jurisdiction, not this way, makes such a bad decision. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76670	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76671	Well, fellow Members, you're right, so it would be good if we had, for example, an analysis of the travel costs of the past law when we proposed this law. So we passed the Law on Court Areas where we abolished certain municipal courts, we abolished county courts, some state's attorneys, and it would be good to see what happened, for example, with travel expenses and what happened to the costs paid by the court to the parties in the proceedings. The fact is that, therefore, by changing jurisdiction for criminal proceedings, that is to say, by exempting certain municipal courts, these courts will certainly be subject to cases, and then by the number of judges fall below those criteria that were established, if there were criteria when we passed the past law, and one of the criteria was that there should be five judges. For example, if the Court of Justice in Korčula takes a trial for criminal offences, it is absolutely certain that at least one judge will be extra there. The same thing is, for example, with a municipal court in the Križevci who will thus fall below the criteria and is likely then asked whether such courts can survive more as independent municipal courts. So this is again one law of changing tables that will last until 2019. I hope that in the meantime there will be courage to implement the real, real reform of the judiciary and that we have courts of the first degree, that we have appeals courts and a court of appeal, and not that we have this anacronism, that we have municipal courts that are not really because they are not like the colleague Grubisic said they are not in the municipalities. That we have county courts that aren't because they're not in counties, they're in quasi regions, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76672	Thank you very much. Second replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Bodakoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76673	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Mršić, you were talking about the rationalization that was in the past years and that certainly without certain analysis and no indication of what happened. However, here we continue to streamline rationalizations that normally cause such recommendations that are present today in this debate. So the question is, why is that happening? Why and these proposals, which are not with some concrete criteria and indicators, are supported so that MPs know what is actually being managed in the proposal for these mergers. That's why there are certain criticisms about this. That's why there's always room somewhere, and there's not enough judges or prosecutors or vice versa. There is the same tradition of individual cities, places and ways and why certain courts and prosecutors existed. However, what should happen in 2019 is what we are discussing today by emergency procedure. We're terminating 33 courts, 21 state's attorney's office. I see it's one contribution to centralization, not decentralisation. And that is why we have submitted amendments to Dr. Borzan and I specifically regarding Osijek-Baranja County regarding courts. This illogicality that was tied to the court in Djakov to join the Nasima. But also the question of the white monastery court, which certainly is a more national environment, and normally it should be taken into account, that both the prosecution and the court as such can and should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76674	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76675	Well, I fully agree with your views, since we must make all citizens equally entitled to access to the court, and that does not mean that the law for everything is equal in the sense that it writes it but means that every citizen under equal circumstances has the right to access that court. I was talking about minors who are just being damaged already in a position of subjugation. It's about this case that I've been talking about, it's really mostly about families that are distraught. So, where are you working or are the guardian or is only with one of the parents with families in a very difficult social status. And we here today, so we tell them ok. You will no longer go to court which is 20, 30 km from you but you will go to court which is 100 km away from your place of residence. And you may get the costs of going to court, but as it stands today, the matter of material costs in the judiciary will be in a year. I assure you that these families will not have the money to go to that hearing to exercise their right. Or, for example, it will not be possible to exercise control over the measure that the court has ordered because the distance of the person to whom the surveillance is to be carried out will be greater than 100 km. This is therefore something that was obviously not concerned enough, because in order to implement the reform of the judiciary, clear, unequivocal, transparent criteria should be done before, and then, as blind justice should be done to the blind organisation of the judiciary, so that justice can indeed be effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76676	Thank you very much. We have a third replica of Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76677	Thank you very much. Comrade Mrsic, you spoke of come on, it was said Colloquially about the abolition of county courts, too, which were 20 as much as the county. There are 15 of them today. Excuse me, county state's attorney's office. It's interesting that out of those five that no longer exist, the nominal two are in Slavonia. It's Virovitica and Požega. So, two out of five. That's 40% when we take it like this. Furthermore, you talked about the costs incurred by travel and judges. Here's an example in Slavonski Brod that president v.d. The County State's Attorney's Office travels from Požega to Slavonski Brod every day. Of course it's travel expenses. The travel of the parties and their diaries are also the cost of going, burdening the Ministry of Justice, clearly our taxpayers. Indeed, in this centralization, and perhaps less rationalising the network of courts, county or municipal state attorneys and criminal courts, the municipal courts are these, what you have stated, and these are the very costs, and I have been talking about it, should take serious and substantiate information about how much it actually represents and how much savings it really is in that sense if it is talking about rationalising the network of courts. You also spoke about the availability, or distance of the courts. So you can think of an example here from Slavonia when you need someone from Voćin, for example, or from a village around Orahovica to go to court in Bjelovar. That's a hundred miles. That's what rationalization doesn't really take care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76678	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76679	So, this law is a law long enough for it to be almost carried out. Because the deadline for its application is 2019. The fact that there is almost no present or very rare are the courts in Croatia and the state's attorneys currently working in Croatia under appropriate conditions and even before rationalization. So, I don't know if there's even one court in Croatia where there's been a physical merger after we passed the law, whether it's a municipal court or a county court. It's just that where there was a board of county court in Koprivnica, we now have a county court in Varazdin, a permanent facility in Koprivnica. All judges sit in their same places, in the same offices, or courtrooms and torments, struggling with the same spatial problems, difficulties as before they were connected with Varazdin. So clearly that judicial reform needs to experience full reform in a way to establish criteria, to define clear principles on the basis of which it will work, to see what spatial problems we have, where we have opportunities, and where we do not, and to really look at a citizen, and not looking at the size of a city or who is in a city in power, to create such a judicial system, I mean a network of judicial bodies that will be equally available to all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76680	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's our guest, Dino Kozlevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76681	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, let me also be related to these proposed two legislative proposals, these are the final proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, and on the headquarters of the State's Attorney's Office, to join what has been said so far, and I will speak from my point of view to the General. It is a miracle that here today we are discussing it by an urgent procedure of such two extremely important laws, we are discussing it by an urgent procedure, and that after this chapter 23 is closed, which is the process that we are practically ahead of the elections, that in some way comes by an urgent process of change and supplementing two laws that we have discussed I don't know exactly how much, but come a few months ago. I am surprised that I am surprised that this is happening right now, whether we can attribute it to the monitoring that will be introduced, which, under which we will be, but what I want to say is that the European Union has not asked us anywhere for explicits means how we will resolve the territorial rationalisation of the courts, but is looking for a quick and effective judiciary. What I'm trying to say is that in this way that someone said in the pen's move, that means by amending two regulations, where tens of bodies that are working today and working will be led to my court's big problems, I mean big problems and difficulties in the functioning of the judicial bodies, as one of the three key levers of power. Why would he cause problems? Well, look, we have seen in history different types of rationalization, any centralised or decentralisation, or any unification can always be justified pro and vice versa, therefore there have been centralised processes that have been explained by rationalization, and the processes of decentralisation that have been explained by rationalization, however what all bodies and judicial bodies in that part are still for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for citizens in general. Therefore, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia need, as a rule, and this is our role and the role of the government to ensure, on the same terms and conditions, that I say, the consumption, or the exercise of my rights. This way in which it is done, and in particular I will refer to two courts and two state attorneys in the Istrian county, which is Buje and Rovinj, it is the bodies that were not established 10 years ago, not 20 years ago, and not 50 years ago, but I would already say that those bodies which are their role, their function in this area, here I will say over a hundred years ago, I will not say hundreds of years ago. Now it is rationalized, attached, municipal court and law firm from Buja Pazin, Rovinj is attached to Pula. It's about two territories, two areas that have a little bit more, a little bit less, but about 30,000 inhabitants, it's about areas with 4 cities, it's about 6 municipalities, tourist areas, an area in economic expansion, regardless of these times of crisis, and I hope that we will overcome them as soon as possible, and it's about these bodies in these areas that have very well justified their existence, both in numbers and in function. Not to say that the state, which I, for the prominent in recent years, has invested in spatial, or accommodation conditions in these bodies, and now, with the amendments to these laws, we attach them to municipal courts, i.e. the lawyers in Pula and Pazin. I am convinced that this kind of rationalisation will not rationalise even regular activity and all those costs, so material costs in the judiciary, meaning in the judicial bodies, in that part, not even in quality, because I know that the vast majority of people who work in the bodies are opposed in such a way that they come without an effective analysis, especially an analysis of what has been done with the last amendments and the additions of the law, here a colleague here just said that we do not know whether there has been physical mergers, people have remained working in those premises, but we are now passing one law in an urgent procedure, not quickly but quickly, as we normally do business work, which will be applied in 2019, i.e. which in 2019 means being consumed to say so. So I think that by 2019, we will see more of this, but what causes such a change is unrest, that in the bodies where people work, because there are also fates, there are costs, etc., efficiency, functioning, and everything that will be caused by these changes, especially in areas where these bodies have worked for tens, tens of years, where citizens have exercised their right. To tell the citizen today that instead of 10, 15 kilometers or a radius of a maximum of 20 kilometers will travel 60, 70 kilometers, which is the distance from the extreme point of the city of Umag to Pazin, I think we will find it difficult to justify rationalization, because what is effective does not always mean rationally and rationally. It can be rationally, because by such logic we can rationalise all institutions, make them aware of even one, two, three, by such logic we can talk about that we do not need so many municipalities and cities, which in some parts we agree on, but perhaps not 10 in the Republic of Croatia by the logic of rationalization, because by rationalization we can all justify that it will be cheaper, and the more efficient it will be, you will agree with me, in no way. So I'm absolutely against it, and I've opposed so far the mergers in such a way. The whole system should be organised, rationally yes, but should be organised efficiently, it should be organised in such a way that the citizen does not feel the exercise of his rights and, technically or financially, that I do not speak in time, in which he has achieved boredom. It is therefore inadmissible to do so. I am convinced that it will neither revive it in such a way and that it will certainly be the subject of further analysis and further changes that will take place in this. So I think it's also my dissatisfaction to do this in an emergency procedure in a hurry. It could be done before, it can be done later, and it can be done with a delay until 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76682	Thank you. We have one replica, distinguished representative Vlatko Podnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, when you're talking about distances right now, the question is here specifically for, you mentioned that something changes in Istria between 15 and 20 and 50 kilometers. But here, my colleague Boro has already mentioned Orahovica, who is no less than 120 km away from Bjelovar. First, there were words that the Orahovica Municipal Court would go to cross the Municipality court in Nasice, but then for what reason, apparently because of the lack of a full vision of judicial reform, it did not happen but remained under the Municipality court in Slatina, and now the same Municipal Court in Slatina is no longer under the County Court in Virovitica but crossing the County Court in Bjelovar. So instead of 20 km from Orahovica to Našica we now have from Orahovica or Black or anywhere in the area we have 120 km to Bjelovar. And it's really questionable then, rationalization, cost reduction, etc., etc. And most regrettable of all, not to the benefit of citizens who will have to go to courts anywhere either in the County of Bjelovar or somewhere, and where are we lucky to say in Osijek that is 70 km from Orahovica? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76684	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Dino Kozlevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76685	If absolutely I agree with you and I would like to point out that we as parliamentary representatives in that part of the discussion should not be brought to say no to a trap but to a single terrain, so that we can say why there, why not there, etc., especially in a sensitive area like this. Absolutely what you said 120 kilometers, I don't think we have anything to comment on. However, all areas had their own, let's put it this way, ordinary rights, they had bankruptcy rights, they had something that had already been implemented in certain areas for generations and Croatia is sufficiently specific in that part. Therefore, there was always a need for both greater and smaller. What I'm saying is that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia need to be guaranteed the same degree, but when we talk about it, it doesn't mean that you're ending and sleeping somewhere. Today, the whole system, including the judicial system, we said that we should also pass legislation that we have long passed and legal regulations to adapt in such a way as to modulate or what I would say and technically that the technology of working in the justice system is so organized that it is as close to the citizens as it needs. So it's not at all whether we're just going to take the board off somewhere or put the board, etc., and that the functions stay or when we attach it physically, we cancel, we move, etc. where a few people do this job at that time produce that hundreds and thousands and thousands of people must travel 120 km or 50, 40. The system can be quite organized to have its own head and tail, while citizens all exercise their rights. And one thing, and the habits of citizens and the system that we have never ultimately solved, technically or papered, but how in certain areas and habits ultimately should be respected, because they are the quality of life, among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76686	Thank you very much. It's time to move on. There's an individual debate going on. Dear Representative Ivo Grbić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76687	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in an emergency procedure of adoption. As part of the reform of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia, a rationalisation has already been carried out in relation to state attorneys and courts. The proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of State shall authorise the merger process of municipal state attorneys to be carried out further as a result of the entry into force of the Criminal Procedure Act, i.e. by its full application of 1 September 2011, require a greater number of state attorneys to start working in cases with several defendants. This legal condition is not possible to achieve all municipal state attorneys, so just the right thing to do is propose a further merger of municipal state attorneys. In this regard, and in consultation with the State Attorney's Office, it is proposed that instead of 55 municipal state attorneys, the establishment of 34 municipal state attorneys, bearing in mind the number of criminal offences. The rationalisation of the network of county and municipal state attorneys should be carried out by 31 December 2019, depending on ensuring the necessary conditions for work, i.e. technical equipment and provision of spatial conditions. By then, the justice minister will, following a preliminary opinion by the Attorney General, determine the establishment of permanent services outside the State's Attorney's office. The proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts establishes the jurisdiction of municipal courts to resolve cases from the criminal branch of the Court. In view of the fact that, in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, every indictment is subject to an investigation before the Prosecutor's Council made up of 3 professional judges, which cannot be secured in the current organisation of jurisdiction. Therefore, of the current 65 municipal courts which have so far dealt with cases in the criminal branch of the trial are determined by 33 municipal courts, which, in view of their human resources and infrastructure, can fully ensure the application of the Criminal Procedure Act. It is also proposed to establish a specialised municipal working court in Zagreb, taking into account the total number of 15 thousand 409 objects received from the field of labour legislation in 2010 of which more than half or 7 thousand 805 cases relate to the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb. Furthermore, in order to rationalise and reduce costs, and given the experience so far, it is proposed that only municipal courts in the county court are responsible for resolving cases in the field of Family Law outside of working hours, and that significant financial savings will be achieved. In the light of the above, and given that the proposed rationalisation of the attorney's office will allow for a better quality of work of the state's attorney on complex cases, as well as to ensure that each court in the criminal branch of the courts has a sufficient number of judges to form municipal councils, I support the adoption of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers as well as the adoption of laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76688	Thank you. We have two replicas. First respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76689	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's your colleague very nicely explained the reasons why this bill is ahead of us, and I would have responded to something that appeared in the debate and which is not true and was not based on the truth when it came to rationalising the commercial courts that preceded this law, so we were already talking about these laws in the Croatian Parliament, so the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik was mentioned, which is why people are supposed to go to Split today. That's just not true. Therefore, there has been rationalisation, but this court is the permanent service of the Commercial Court in Split, and no one has to go to Split because of any case, because it is simply a harsh untruth and abuse here in the Croatian Parliament, using this pay phone to present such untruths. So, no one could have stayed in Dubrovnik because of what he could have done, and this is all about the cases that lead to the Court of Commerce in Dubrovnik, so there is nothing to go to Split for. It's just a harsh lie. It was also mentioned by the State Attorney's Office in Korčula that they would allegedly be an extra employee and that someone would be fired or that they would no longer be able to work in the service of the State's Attorney's Office, which is related to this law, that is also not true. There's also no surplus here. It is indeed that under the new law, criminal cases must be accessed in a different way, and in this sense rationalisation is going on as far as the State's Attorney's Office is concerned, simply this service can no longer operate there on the basis of the second law. And that's the reason for rationalization. And certainly there will be no suspension of the Court of Justice in Korčula as it is also said here in the debate. I don't think it's really necessary for this pay phone to be used to spread falseness.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76690	Thank you very much. And another replica of the esteemed representative Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76691	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to replicate my colleague's coat of arms by respecting everything he said and agree. I think the question of rationalising the work of the courts is what led to the motion to reduce the number of courts. However, I must point out in all this soup the same specificity by believing that everything that God commands was seen, but knowing the problem from the scene I would support that Supetar or the island of Brac get a slightly different status in this. Of course I stand up for a few reasons. First because Brac is a big island, not because I'm there in Brac than Brač is a big island, which there are a lot of people who live especially in summer more. But the additional reason is that in the fact that Split is the 3rd port of the Mediterranean by passenger traffic is very significant that 54% of it makes the Split-Supetar railway. Which means that Supetar is quite attractive, i.e. that Brač is quite attractive and that there are needs more pronounced on Brač than on other islands, such as Rab. If rationalization were justified in some islands, but as far as Brač is concerned, I would ask a special status to keep it on Brač if possible. I plead for the team. Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Grbic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76692	Thank you. Yes, for the Bračana special status. Here you are, Your Honor, your reply to the replica. Ivo Grbic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76693	A respected colleague is not just about rationalization, it's about the possibility of a trial. Whether, in a specific case, the Municipal Court in Supetar also deals with this part of the criminal branch of the criminal trial from the criminal domain. Why can't he? Because that court doesn't have three professional judges. That's the problem. So it could be committed in criminal proceedings according to this new Penal Code of Criminal Procedure, it takes three professionals. As far as I know, there are no three judges. Right now, and here are the representatives of the ministry, I think there's only one judge working.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76694	Thank you. That was a real replica, that was a real replica. On behalf of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the esteemed Barica Novosel, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I have to look back at this debate maybe for a reason because in the opening part, I haven't seen enough things I've explained. First, the proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts and State Attorneys is a harmonised proposal from the Supreme Court, the State's Attorney's Office. On that proposal, the ministry was working on this law. Second, firstly, when the area and seat and jurisdiction of municipal courts of criminal law are agreed under the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State Attorney's Office, the State's attorneys shall follow the areas and the courts' seats, means those municipal courts which are now designated for trial in the criminal branch of the courts. Third, no municipal court is abolished. All 67 municipal courts remain. They judge all they have grants and still they all have a further trial in all civilian cases of trial. Only the criminal branch of the trial is moving to 33 courts. The criteria that have been taken in drawing up this proposal are objective, transparent, unique for all exclusively and consistent on the basis of the number of cases received. The number of judges in courts shall be determined on the basis of the number of cases received, not on the basis of the number of inhabitants, the number of territories covered everywhere but exclusively the number of cases the judge must operate. We can't have a judge for five cases a year. That these criteria are transparent and objective evidence to you, I've been doing a bill, a colleague sitting in a bench is from a court, a city from which we come has no state's attorney's office anymore, and a municipal court is attached criminal cases to another court. So the criteria were absolutely transparent, objective, the same for everyone. There were remarks that there should be some courts to allow the ministry to team up the courts with the number of judges so they shouldn't dock. All courts shall have as many judges as necessary in relation to the number of cases received, in fact in accordance with the framework criteria necessary for the work of those judges. So if there are 100 criminal cases in a court of law a year, and the norm for a judge is about 200, we can't give more than one. As far as the island is concerned, in all the islands, the courts remained, on all our islands in all our rationalizations, the courts remained. Dear colleague Anticevic mentioned a meeting, I was at the meeting where the President of the County Court in Split asked to join us, say the Municipal Court in Stari Grad, Hvar last year received 60 criminal cases. Which may be the judge who will judge all sorts of civilians and partly deal with criminal matters. The objects are complex, demanding, our laws change all the time. The judge for 60, the President of the Court asked that, and before that, the President of the Supreme Court had already delegated the cases from the Old Town to Hvar in Split and the Honorable Representative Roshin, the same was requested for the Municipal Court in Supetar concerning criminal cases that have been tried for several months, perhaps a year by all at the Municipal Court in Split because we do not die for a judge for Supetar. And I would still show myself to a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, who says we will have a big problem because now all discussions will have to start over. It is in the Transitional Provisions that we have regulated the way that all cases of criminality that are now in court remain in those courts and that these judges are ending them precisely for the reason that the debate does not have to start over. If we had put new courts to do this, then all the debates would have to start over and the procedure would have stalled. So the cases that are now in court are completed by these judges who are here, new cases from 1.9th after the new CAP are coming to new courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76696	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's our guest, Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76697	The fact that the respected secretary of state has found it self-critical that we are changing the laws as on the current tape, but even worse, we are changing the organization on the current tape. These laws could be called you have a car you have justice, you don't have justice, because in the case of Zagorje you have a situation that the jurisdiction of a criminal trial is transferred from two of the largest cities in the county, from Krapina and Zaboka to Zlatar, which is small by the number of inhabitants, there is a county court that loses a little bit, but there is nothing that matters most to the citizens, and that is the question of access to justice, there is no traffic connection. And now it's not just miles, it's hours. Public transportation of citizens from Kraljec to Sutla, from Zagorje villages cannot reach Zlatar in one day. At the same time, it also means that it cannot be returned in one day if it uses public transport. There is a further question here what costs are for citizens, and what is the cost of the state. The reorganisation of the Defence Office led to those from Stubica travelling to Zlatar, those from Zlatar traveled to Stubica, then they got rid of it, mixed up, and the good thing went down, and now the cost is reduced, people are shrinking. In this situation we have one thing that we have said is the former secretary of state does not have the expense of citizens, when criminally it comes in the line, in other accompanying means. Yeah, but somebody's driving them. And now you have an investigative prison in Zagreb, you have a County Court and a Municipalityal court in Zlatar for criminal cases and you have the Krapina-Zagorska Police Department sitting in Zabok with the Criminal Police, you have the Krapina Border Police and all of that you drive and drive to Zlatar. We feel that the promise of our colleagues and friends from other parties will be realized that the fast road will see the borders of Zlatar Bistrica, Marija Bistrica and Zlatar, but for now it is a utopian journey along the poor road infrastructure of Zagorje. And when it comes to filling out the number of courts says there are no judges, one simple question. How this has led to the formation of certain departments in courts and the authorisation to hire judges. My colleagues have already mentioned the population, the agromeration, the number of residents, the number of cases, the number of cases, but these criteria are personally not clear to me and I agree with Madam Secretary of State that they may have criteria, but we haven't seen them. That's the public, the availability of data. We must be in good faith, trust the ministry services that these criteria are objective and that they are unmistakable. I don't doubt it, but I'd love to see them if I had an argument in communicating with voters, with judges of municipal courts, which is why such decisions were made. But when it comes to space, I can say specifically in Zabok, the entire floor of the Community Court of Zabok is empty. It's literally empty. It is available, and the town of Zabok has also offered its share to the ministry on the same floor but another wing at the disposal of the court and the state's attorney's office to benefit from their needs, to reduce transport costs, travel costs. And the last one is really not a rhetorical question, but a fundamental question is why, if something should work by 2019, why is an emergency procedure for such a decision. I am not suffering from formality and I know certain procedures in the European Union where nothing has actually changed, but the European Union is asking for one address, not 500 addresses, and everyone has kept their business duty-free zones, their locations because professional, working places where they were but grouped into regional duty-free zones. It's probably the same with the courts. However, the question and costs and rational use of all resources are raised because the worst thing to read is that the adoption of this Law does not require any material resources. And I'm going to tell you that already costs are high in places where it's not intended for criminal proceedings, I'm not going to talk about places where the state's attorneys are already working on equipment with a recording technique, in interrogations and similar to several locations, and now it should all be moved to one, so they'll probably have five cameras, corners, a moving camera and everything like that on sports transmissions because there'll be extra techniques. Personally, I don't think the solution in this court schedule is best, and I have the most regrets clearly because I represent this area on behalf of both Krapina and Zaboka, but also on behalf of the entire county. For the least our citizens suffer for these two cities of Krapina and Zabok, and the most rural areas which are the poorest, the worst traffic connection with all the centers, let alone the city of Zlatar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76698	Thank you. We have four replicas. First, she is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76699	My colleague, you've begun your discussion, so perhaps with one symbolism, but that's indeed the case, unfortunately. You have a car, you have justice. You don't have a car, you don't have any justice. For example, by abolishing the Criminal Court, or part of a criminal trial in Supetar, it is not only the issue of Supetran to reach Split. It's still relatively and easily solved by ferry. These relationships are both common and trafficiest. But it is forgotten that the island of Brac, apart from Supetar, has its continental part inhabited – Nerežiste, Donji Humac, Gornji Humac, Pražnice where there are no such bus lines to reach Supetar at all, let alone Split in one day. How much does that cost to these people? Has the government ever thought about that? So they don't have their own vehicle and can't get to Supetar or Split in one day. What do they have left? To hitchhike. Should live then come to where they're going.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76700	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Hanzek, even though you've come forward since it was over. Here you go. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76701	... for this concession. [[Specially enabled.]] My colleague, it's easier for us to pursue and make people travel than judges travel. And when we say that for a criminal trial, there must be a council of three judges. Imagine what the problem is for judges travelling from Zagreb or from Zapresic to Zlatar to Zabok and doing work in Zabok with judges who are already there. There are few judges who domicillically live in the seats of the courts. And otherwise they travel, we pay them travel expenses. They're bigger now. Well, then let's have office days and schedules. Well, that's a little bit of a justice problem for those with work schedules and hours schedules to do a little bit worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76702	Thank you. We have another replica of the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76703	Thank you very much. Well, you mentioned the formality of your colleague Hanzek, and it's as if decisions are made very often to make themselves a purpose. Here's the merger of the municipal state's attorney's office in Korčula with Dubrovnik's I think it's a formality. Why? It is precisely because the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Korčula has never begun its work even though the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers has established the headquarters of the State Attorney's Office in Korčula since 1.1.2009. So far, no. Therefore, I think that this decision to merge the Municipal State's Attorney's Office in Korčula of the Municipal State's Attorney's Office in Dubrovnik is just a formal nature, because there is no law in Korcula. And I wonder if the Ministry has thought about it. Why wasn't there a municipal attorney's office in Korčula so far, and the law went into effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76704	Thank you. Then the third replica is the esteemed representative Nada Cavlovic Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76705	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to say that I fully agree with your debate, especially the part where you said the criteria that the ministry had run when it made such a proposal for this law, that is, those criteria were not presented to us, so we can only believe what came from the ministry now. The question of how much we can trust it. But there's something else I'd like to add about the amendments to the Law on the Area and the Court's seats. It is unacceptable for the Municipal Court in Virovitica, where we see that criminal proceedings against younger adults and elderly adults have been excluded since 2011. It seems to me that since the Municipal Court of Virovitica has joined the County Court in Bjelovar where it has never de facto brought this County Court back to our home, then in this Municipal Court more if these cases are excluded than what will eventually remain and what will be the meaning of this Municipal Court, and I will especially point out something else. Since the rationalization which means the courts' networks, the Orahovica Municipal Court is joined by a court in Slatina, and now the court in Slatina is joining the court in Virovitica, the one in Bjelovar. I mean, it's hard to track all these mergers and mergers. I think that's almost impossible. Get lost in it. And now... I said, I repeat, what will remain in that court in the first place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's another one of these other problems that my colleague Podnar was saying, and that means the problem is actually the availability of that court to the citizens, which I think is inadmissible. So, just another line of citizens from the former Orahovica municipality will have over 120km in general to get to that court in Bjelovar, especially when it comes to cases, means criminal cases in the juvenile area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76706	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Hanzek.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76707	I only suggest that at some point the ministry and we all say stop to count who needs to go, and get organized again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76708	I'd tell you that now these replicas were, in fact, every replica on their territory, not at the hearing of the distinguished representative Hanzek. I didn't want to interrupt you, because it's good to say it, but here's not according to the Rules of Procedure. So allow me, allow me the honourable MPs and MPs, it is my honor that in the Croatian Parliament I can welcome His Majesty Raven Rivlin, President of the Knessete State of Israel, with a delegation who resides in the official visit to the Republic of Croatia and welcome us. And we've got another one in an individual debate, so I suggest we finish this point, and then we'll take so long to take a break. [[Applause.]] Honorable representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76709	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll believe I'll be something shorter. In this proposal of the law, therefore, it has been pointed out several times, a certain rationalisation is being carried out in such a way that certain courts and state lawyers' seats are being merged and their numbers are being reduced. Among other things, each of us speaks mainly of his territory, including the municipal state attorney's office and the municipal court in County are attached to the municipal state attorney's office and the municipal court in Vinkovci. I have to say that this move, which is one way of connecting the entire population of the southern part of Vukovar-Srijem County, and not a small number of inhabitants, is aimed at the area of the city of Vinkovac. The question is, for the residents of that part of Vukovar-Srijem County, what a merger like this means. I have to say, it's a large number of people, and it's mostly from rural areas, where large municipalities dominate. For us in Slavonia, the concept of the municipality is not like the rest of Croatia, and we are not rare municipalities that have 5 and more thousand inhabitants, and this part has a number of such municipalities, such as Drenovac, who have about 7,000 inhabitants with about 5 settlements such as Vrbanja or Gunja, which have about 5,000 inhabitants, such as Bosniaks with 4 and a half thousand inhabitants or Babina Greda with 4 thousand inhabitants. They were even values, i.e. population numbers and over these values, but here's the 2011 list even showed that there was a decline in the number of inhabitants in this section. It's also about one big space, so it's about the space that you're talking about in this to tell the horizontal east-west part of over 50 kilometers, and the north- south over 50 kilometers, so from the southernmost point to the city of Vinkovac, and if we were to talk about the whole county then that amount would be even bigger. But what's important is that for some of the residents of these municipalities, and there's the town of Županja, which is somewhere around 13,000 inhabitants or something less now on the list in 2011, it's simply about one important increase in the length of the road in case of the need for access to the municipal state's attorney's office or municipal court, so let's just say, if I don't know about... on the far east of Vukovar-Srijem County in this southern part of the name Ilock is there, therefore the far east, but in this southern part, then we are saying that from some 30-mile-long population should travel over 65 kilometers. [[You don't understand.]] The same way when we look at the south point, so Gunjo is about the same amount. But the most important thing is that it is actually the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which is the most underdeveloped. It is an area which, according to this famous development index that we have already talked about several times in the Croatian Parliament, belongs to the very beginning, where in the first group of underdevelopment indices, so where is this index, I say under 50% we have two in... , this is already mentioned by Drenovci and Gunja, three in the area which was in the authority of the municipal state attorney's office and the municipal court in County, because this is where Babin Greda belongs. [[You don't understand.]] But how devastating is the fact that we are talking about, I will say that out of 556 cities and municipalities, Gunja is in 540th place, Drenovci 534., Babina Greda 523., Stitar 516., Bosniaks 488., Vrbanja 484. and a whole series of municipalities in that area are therefore in this invisible area by development far, far undeveloped part. It is no wonder, therefore, that the 2011 census also showed that the number of inhabitants in the area was drastically falling. More than 20% are less people in the area, and some of these municipalities are up to almost 30% less than in the 2001 census. I believe that even after decisions like this that do not seem stimulating to the population of the region, because you simply know how people say forgotten everyone behind their backs, far from God, away from their eyes, obviously far from the government in Croatia, far from the government. So I believe that residents of the county area, residents of Posavina, residents... very difficult to accept, because there has already been some unrest in the announcements themselves, so at the end of last year about such actions by the Ministry of Justice, so they will not accept such rationalisation in such a way that it is a good measure. [[You don't understand.]] I expect that, among other things, they will be rewarded for this in the upcoming parliamentary elections, and I suggest that following those numerous discussions concerning certain criteria, consider the criteria for what it means for someone who does not have any employees in the family, and according to some surveys in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, more than 30% of such families that do not have any family employees, which means an increase not by 3 km, but by 30 km or more in case of a need from the State Attorney's Office or the Municipal Court. I therefore suggest that such moves and such proposals should be examined more carefully before they are implemented in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76710	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. It would end with a morning session with us continuing at 3:15 p.m. with point 4. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 851. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76711	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, it was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 845, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. You've been assigned a review of the amendment to the bench. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments. Ms. Barica Novosel, State Secretary. First, the HDSSB Representatives Club, as referred to in Article 2(4).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76712	The amendment is not accepted for a reason because the draft law on the merger of state attorneys was developed on the basis of objective and transparent criteria. The adoption of this amendment would violate the entire structure of the law and, for this reason, it would not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76713	Thank you. There's no proposer, so I'd like to make a statement by raising our hands. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The second amendment of Mr. Biljana Borzana and Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakoš...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76714	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76715	It's unacceptable. Is Mrs. Borzan, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76716	Unfortunately, I expected it to be like this, but I have to say this doesn't make any sense because the White Manastir is in a specific, multinational environment. I can also say that Djakovo and Nashice are extremely badly connected. These are two cities between which there is no bus line, and the question is how thousands of citizens will go to court municipalally for some papers and certificates when they are simply not connected. So it doesn't make sense. Instead of making it difficult for operators to handle crime in some way to make their jobs easier, and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76717	Thank you. Please raise your hands who's for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Third amendment of the HDSB's Club of Representatives to Article 2(4)(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76718	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76719	Since there is no representative of the club who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the fourth amendment of Mršić's representative to point 11 of Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76720	It's unacceptable. Same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76721	Thank you. Since there are no MPs, please raise your hand for this amendment. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much to the secretary of state. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 72 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 25 against, together with the amendments adopted. ... Listen and you'll hear. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Repeat this here please show what happened. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 72 votes in favour, 6 abstentions and 25 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76723	It's an organic law, I guess 77 votes are necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76724	There is a procedure that can challenge a law that is not in your opinion passed by a proper majority. You have, the whole procedure is foreseen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76809	We'll continue the afternoon session. On the agenda - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.851 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zoran Piculjan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76810	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here after these laws from the domain of criminal justice, we leave the domain of organisational leave now and perform in the domain of commercial law with amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register which are practically generally unremarkable, not too demanding but significant. In any case, they are heading in four directions, in particular the first amendments, which reflect the practice that exists, and that the court register is conducted exclusively in electronic form and in this sense this law and takes, normably regulates exactly that possibility, i.e. that possibility is included in the law as a rule. In addition, it is specified and it is a nomotechnical but significant newspaper in view of the principle of law in the court register. This right of this law, an expression that was relatively impertinent in the law in Article 4(2) of the Law, is specified in a way that is now clear and understandable. The third amendment is related, in addition to the change in the decision on the relationship of the hearing after the decision of the Economic and Social Council since April 2011 to supplement the Law on the Court Register in the establishment of a company, not only the provision of a declaration of subordinated debts but also of outstanding wage debts. And the latest newspaper is about eradicating inactive subjects' enrolments and not only those entities with no assets but those who have minor assets and are just legally and defined and provides a definition of what small assets mean. One final provision has to do with the publication of erasures not in the "National Journals" but on the relevant website on which the court register is located, which rationalises the costs. And in short, these are all the more significant changes that this law is now making in this reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76811	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76812	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, with the final proposal for a law. All these provisions supplementing the existing law, which improves the law, are perfectly acceptable and should not be spoken of much because Mr. Secretary of State has said so. However, we at the SDP club draw particular attention to the provision of Article 4 which finally the government proposes to end the eight-year injustice. As soon as Sanader's team came to power the then prime minister under the government's great plan quickly.hr, quick registration and abolished this protection mechanism. For those irresponsible people who acted irresponsiblely against the credentials, they were the state, suppliers or workers who allowed them to start a new company tomorrow, despite even court rulings on intent. That's what we've been talking about for eight years. For eight years, and this is one of even the sources of indifference because we call such behaviour employers dirty competition, they turned into black and other employers who had done business neatly, who fulfilled all obligations both towards the worker and the state and to suppliers and any of the creditors. Such a business has been blessed here for eight years, eight hard and long years. It was his butter, and it took how long it took, before the elections themselves to see this injustice, to realize that the government couldn't make that choice. But what was waiting for the full eight years? The argument at the time was, so anyway, that provision, this mechanism, some security mechanism that could not be established by a new company unless you had fulfilled the previous obligations of the company you had liquidated. There was an explanation, so wait for such a provision can be played in a way that someone builds a company on a member of his family, closer or further, or a person, a person or person in whom he trusts. That was the explanation back then. There's no doubt and there's no doubt that even the best rule of law can be misused, and then it's our duty to narrow down the space of abuse, not open the door wide. However, here in this provision of a new bill in Article 4 should therefore be added to other believers because why other creditors should remain deprived and played out, therefore not only taxes to the state as it stands here in the existing provision, the wages are now being determined for workers. So, claims to the workers. But what about the other believers? How are we going to have a healthy economy if we don't care about it? So here, in that sense, the SDP Club will also submit an amendment. I think that's fair. We have to make fair rules. And I think here I am speaking to you, Mr. Secretary of State, that there is no obstacle to having a healthy economy. So in the very foundations then let's see in what laws some obstacles were hidden, be hidden, then remove them so that really all people have equal chances, equal opportunities, and then that's the foundation of one and trust in the state. Because how trust will be given to that employer who wants to behave and who wants to act according to the law sees that the other one is easy to do without such behavior. So, in any case, other believers must be covered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76813	We also have a correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76814	Thank you very much. My colleague Marinović and I have not once talked about this problem but it is not a good problem to locate for just one time for the simple reason that the solution will not be found. My colleague Marinović is well aware of how much he is, I would not like to return at some time, but how many companies were blocked in 2003 without a single employee. And remember that law of the successful, and not of the requited claims. In an individual debate, I will elaborate some things and more widely, and at the time when 20 rulings are made in Croatia within a month that someone has to pay someone who has not paid him, not to drag him away for seven years. Rest assured, no law can be more effective than that. The main problem is when you sue someone, then you wait 10 years for your verdict to come. And I think you should say that in this House loud and clear. And if we say it loud and clear, and that was 10 and 2 and 15 years ago, then we'll solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76815	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76816	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register of the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support as a further improvement in the regulation of this matter which appears to be so small and irrelevant. But actually it means the life or death of an economic operator, or one company. Namely, by enrolling in the court register, the company begins to live. Therefore, the provisions on the conditions and possibilities of enrolment in the court register are extremely important. We now have before us a number of seven or eight amendments to this Act, so it would be for you to expect from the promoter next time a whole new text because we have already fixed or modified almost all the provisions once. With these changes, we are actually legally regulating something that is already in fact, which is that the court register is conducted exclusively in electronic form as it was in practice. But the law provided for parallel keeping of the register in paper form. Now, given the technology and what is really in nature and in practice, it is also determined by this Law. It is also an opportunity to correct some nomotechnical inconsistencies and some articles to arrange a clear statement. Although it was probably clear to everyone so far or I understood that the court register was public, that everyone had the right to see the court register, obtaining a copy of the court register, etc. Here are the amendments to the fourth article, the second paragraph says the promoter that he has more clearly streamlined this provision in a way that there is no doubt in its application. This is also what we have already discussed, which is that the conditions for enrolment in the court register, i.e. the condition for the establishment of a new firm that the founder must give a statement that he has subordinated debts. Therefore, these public debts for taxes and contributions to salaries, pension insurance, health insurance and tax debts. However, it is now required and this is the conclusion of the Economic Social Council that the provision is complemented in a way that determines that it must not have a founder or a net wage debt to workers. So not only do they subscribe to contributions, but also their net wages. We think it's a good thing, because if someone in a company doesn't meet their obligation to employees, they shouldn't really allow him to start a new firm. Those provisions have also been added which have not been sufficiently standardized, which are the provisions on the registration of a name or a name, since, as it is known, no company can be registered in the field of a commercial court if there is already one under that name, and in order to resolve in advance, it is also necessary to elaborate those provisions. Another significant newspaper of these changes and additions. These are provisions on where the registration entity can be deleted either after the tax administration's application, or by official duty. In fact, so far, it's been a provision to delete it unless it has property. However, it is now added that it can be deleted even if it has a property of little value. It is also determined what is considered to be of minor value to be regulated in the legal text as well. It is therefore considered to be an asset which would not be sufficient to pay the costs of the bankruptcy proceedings and those assets for which the cost of the cashing is greater than its market value. It is also determined that the court will carry out the decommissioning procedure as I have said under official duty. If the entity registers within three years, it shall comply with the legal obligation to publish its annual financial reports with the prescribed documentation if such an obligation exists. There are also provisions on how the purpose of erasure must be published, without liquidation, so a period of 6 months is left in which the registration entity can object, make it likely that there is still some property. It is also determined how it will be handled if it is shown after the removal that the assets were, however, so that there were assets, that it should be divided and that the liquidation procedure was then carried out. Finally, it is a provision that the Register Court must intend to delete the registration entity from the court register, to notify its legal representatives, and which may be done by publication on the website on which the court register is located. Therefore, it is important to publish the purpose of eradicating and giving a deadline in the same manner as the publication and registration in the court register. Here and finally, we support this law, of course, because it makes certain provisions more clear, we support it and because, in this way, the introduction of an expropriation provision and those under official duty or the application of tax administrations, and those entities that have minor assets, will not have to be subject to bankruptcy proceedings that are often more expensive than those of such a company or company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76817	Thank you. And on behalf of the HNS club, HSU, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76818	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. Immediately at the beginning of the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Pensioners will support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register. The fact that from the year... The first law was passed to us, the Court Register Act was passed in 1995, and then it was, it seems to me that this is the eighth amendment, mostly every little one we do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the last debate or the last amendment last year, it was said that, and by the promoters that this year we will get a new Law on the Court Register, however, it is going again with amendments and additions, in any case the amendments and additions provided for by this bill are amendments that we in the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Pensioners support, but some things are that we do not now list which changes, these were mentioned by colleagues on behalf of the SDP Club, and the HDZ Club. It is a bit illogical, and even funny that one change is included in this bill, which is the consequence of the agreement on the Economic and Social Council on 21 April 2011, so the government has contributed to good communication and constructive communication on the Economic and Social Council, which is that, in addition to the previous declaration necessary for registration, this is that the tax contributions paid are also paid, paid... You can write it doesn't bother, but it says how inconsistencies we are, because you ask a very logical question, if someone paid taxes and contributions, if someone didn't pay taxes and contributions... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't seem very logical to me, it is possible for us, because the rule of law under its quotes works and allows all these years to avoid obligations, but it doesn't seem like a logical or rescue solution to be incorporated into the bill and in order to prevent abuse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there is no great benefit from this, and there will be no harm, but it just confirms that this bill has its own pre-election purpose, but basically what is not good, basically avoiding problems in the Croatian economy, and one of the reasons is certainly one strong increase in internal indifference, one strong increase within non-payment, the fact that internal indifference has grown at the level of the budget deficit for this year, and that we are growing from day to day, therefore if we really want and if we are really willing and not only ready, but also if we have the knowledge and ability to change the situation in the Croatian economy in terms of protecting pay for people who work and do not get paid, then this provision in this proposal of the laws of cosmetic nature and confirms that we are not ready to take responsibility in solving key problems, and one of the key problems in the overall cancer of the Croatian economy is certainly the most powerful influence, this is the issue of in the non-pliance, whether pay or pay or pay. The very fight against the irresponsible in the economy, in terms of avoidance of commitments, payment of commitments, regardless of whether the obligation to pay taxes and contributions, or payouts, was announced in 2004, but after 2004, to this day, things have deteriorated significantly, and this is evident. No matter how much we want to have a more beautiful picture or we want to create a more beautiful picture of ourselves, about our abilities, about the results of our work, about the added value that we have installed in our daily work, but the fact is quite different, and it is definitely devastating. So with this bill absolutely certain, and this message is us from the HNS-HSU club, related to the addition of the statement, which is necessary to make, certified by the notary, necessary to register the company absolutely certain is something that is not crucial, something that is pre-election and something that will not fundamentally change what is definitely at this point the biggest problem, which is indifference or need to change the entire economic model. However, this awaits a future government, quite certainly that government that will get its electoral legitimacy because the lack of electoral legitimacy is among other things and the cause and even non-payment of salaries or irresponsibility or the overall situation in the economy where I exclude or reduce our participation in the HNS-HSU club reduces the participation of irresponsibility, although we point to objective circumstances, circumstances resulting from the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, circumstances that continue to open up space for workers to work, and do not receive wages and not by their guilt, not the guilt of entrepreneurs or owners of a company. In any case, this proposal changes the addition of the Law on the Court Register will be supported, however, a key problem, and this is the solution of Croatian economy cancer, above all, I think of liquidity quite certainly in this way or the lack of pay will certainly not be resolved in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76819	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76820	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, when we talk about these things, then I think there's just some things that can't be skipped. In 2002, the amendment of the Law on Payments, the transfer of payment traffic from the current ZAP/FINA to business banks was one of the non-payment generators of blocked accounts. The second thing, was one of the generators of increasing the profits of the business banks because you see how much, look at the structure of their profits then you will see how much waste on the prizes. You remember that sometimes in ZAP when you brought in a pay order you had to bring in a transfer order for taxes and contributions. And one more thing, at the time when the decision was made to transfer the payment from the pension and health fund, to shut it down on the IRS first was not quality-transmitted documentation, the IRS didn't get the balance of debts at all and all expensive and it was the generator, it caused all of this together. So, colleagues and colleagues, let's let go of the political bickering, if the government has good intentions now, then let's look at the genealogy of the problem so we can solve it. Because if we're not going to look at the problem gene, then we're not going to solve it. Because we're still suffering from the initial childhood disease of the market economy. And what we're talking about today can't happen in the market economy. So a little of us, we can talk specifically about facts, and then we'll solve the problem. And colleague Korachević, this is the gene of these problems we're talking about, but I'm saying in an individual debate, I'm going to elaborate some things more.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76821	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76822	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, in my debate on the amendments to this law, I would like to say something about two articles that I consider important, and I think that this law and changes are extremely important for the following reasons. As regards the law, it is good that tax contributions, i.e. the net wage paid to workers, are also included in some way, i.e. that no business entity can be established unless it has paid the net wages to its workers. However, I will say here about a particular problem that exists both in practice and that this law will certainly not be solved. Therefore, this law imposes an obligation on the entrepreneur before establishing a new undertaking of the sea with other documents which are already necessary and which it provides for the opening of that company and which it delivers to the Commercial Court must also provide a certified public-booking document on the fact that it does not owe, or that there is no debt in the title of the contribution tax and now these net salaries that have been added to these amendments. The statement is certified by the public notary, it gives it by its material and criminal responsibility and thus goes to the Trade Court and establishes a new company. But what happens in the meantime? The problem is next. Namely, in a conversation with many bonds of entrepreneurs who addressed me directly and asked me how is possible, so I own the company, I have existing debts, I have debts on the existing company, it is about young entrepreneurs who obviously still do not manage in that area and I do not have to say coated with all the fats, says the public notary sent me along with my documents and documents delivered to the Trade Court, he has already delivered me a statement that I do not owe to the Tax Administration taxes and contributions. And that entrepreneur just got scared, says I can't sign it because I owe it to the IRS. It's a thing that you really can't believe exists and exists. Where is the solution to this problem? Then of course, that's exactly why I went to do some research, so what's this about? See without a tax administration confirmation that means keeping tax records and contributions cannot simply be given, it cannot be in any way affecting the entrepreneur and prevent him from still opening new companies, although he already had debts on the existing company from tax and contributions. Actually, it turns out we can't trust that taxpayer. He's willing to sign a statement saying he doesn't owe anything and de facto owes it. I am now wondering if we have introduced the OIB since 01.01 this year, if the database means the Trade Court, I know that this is the biggest problem exactly the Commercial Court because the data has not yet been downloaded from the Trade Court database and the Tax Administration has not had them because the Commercial Court has not carried out its obligation. I think the only solution is not to start new businesses and not to remain debts on existing companies is that every entrepreneur has to come to the IRS and ask the IRS to confirm the state of the tax debt and from that confirmation is only visible whether he is in debt or not. As far as public-booking documents are concerned, I'm telling you, that's just what the practice has shown, that's the thing that's not going through in Croatia. That's one thing. Also, why is it still important? See individual taxpayers simply create a commitment during the year or from the VAT title and from the title of tax and salary contributions. They are obliged by the tax administration to submit their reports. However, there are taxpayers, and very much so which of course reports do not deliver, which means that the automatic tax administration cannot borrow it and automatically means that they do not have a tax debt. However, when such a taxpayer comes when he comes to the IRS and asks for confirmation that he will establish a new company, the IRS will call him and will not issue a certificate. He will request that he submit all reports and forms if he accidentally has workers or if he is a VAT official and only then issue him a tax debt certificate. So what I'm saying is that this about a statement from a public notary past an institution that manages all duties is an absolute thing that doesn't go through. I'm telling you on the example of a taxpayer, it's a young entrepreneur who said I can't sign it I owe. Now I don't know what the right to public records is and how it just works that they're pre-confirming there's no tax debt. It's a practice thing for you. I've heard it. I mean, it's not made-up. It's really like that. I'd like to say something about Article 70. We see here that the tax administration will also mean that the commercial court can initiate the liquidation procedure and not only for those entrepreneurs who have no property but also for those who have little value, and that small value means that the value of the assets is less than the cost of the liquidation process. I must say here that unfortunately, and the prime minister said that they can exist in Croatian companies that have millions of debts, have no employees. And I'm afraid these companies, so-called. Fantomial companies, which do not have employees, who do not have property, which have large tax debts, can be subject to this provision that they will be deleted from the court register, will not pay either the costs of the liquidation process or the costs of the bankruptcy procedure. I must take into account that the basis of the bankruptcy law is the responsibility of the legal person if the company in the blockade is only obliged to initiate bankruptcy proceedings for 60 days. If he doesn't, he becomes a criminal liability. This provision means extending that standard to me will make the most of those who have committed large tax debts for years. For them, do tax debts de facto be forgiven, and they have no place to charge from. There is another possibility there is, of course, and the tax administration can do this means that it initiates a criminal procedure and that the responsible person in that laundry person that sues for damages but does not seem to be. No. No such objects, no such disputes. That's what I'm telling you from experience. Therefore, this standard, in fact, this article which will in some ways amnesty or will bring into a better position those who have not paid any obligations to the State for years, do not, or if they have property, have less value. That state will pay the costs because the costs will exist, right, this liquidation process and they will not pay anything and they will be deleted from the register and nothing has happened. And I'm gonna say something else and not just that. Legal persons are normally privileged in relation to natural persons and craftsmen, because we know that the craftsman, based on the latest amendments to the General Tax Law, corresponds not only to his property but even to the property of his spouse and children if he is acquired by the taxpayer. So here we are creating essentially, I would say to citizens discrimination between entrepreneurs of legal persons between craftsmen regarding the collection of tax debts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76823	Thank you. It's next, Honourable representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76824	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. This legislative proposal we're discussing today is two things that matter to me. The first was treated in Article 4 which states that the founder, when applying for the registration of a company in a court register, must submit a statement certified by the public notary, and the colleague explained very well all the shortcomings in such a manner or the submission of that declaration. Therefore, it must submit a statement that there is no debt and for net wages to its workers. So far, there has been an obligation in the Court Register Act to submit a statement when establishing a new company and enrolling it in the court register that the founder has no outstanding obligations but only from the title of outstanding contributions for pension and health insurance. The statement now states that the founder does not have any debts on the basis of the payment or non-payment of the net salary. Although the submission of such a declaration is not foreseen by the European company law directive, since we assume that in the EU there is no known wage default for workers at least not in such proportions as we do, the proposal for this law therefore the Government has respected the conclusions of the Economic and Social Council, so it is appreciated that in Croatia there is not only a practice of non-payment of salaries to workers, but it is very much used by Croatian entrepreneurs. The government admits that it is a figure between 18 and 25 thousand workers who do not receive salaries and have done their job neatly. However, we also think that this figure is much higher. Unfortunately, she has not been served and known to us. This bill supplement is a good move but it's certainly partial because it's only being checked that the founder has no outstanding liabilities per salary at the moment he's starting a new company. The problem of non-payment of salaries remains after the establishment, i.e. in the course of business of the company. I remind the SDP club proposed in this regard, and by handling exactly the fact that there is a large proportion of those workers who do not receive salaries for their jobs, so he proposed an effective measure to sanction non-payment as a criminal offence. And it's a good thing that the government was discussing amendments to the Penal Code at its session today and predicting that the Penal Code should include this crime. We'll see how that actually worked out for the government what it's going to look like. Another important thing about these amendments and additions is a provision that extends the possibility of eradicating inactive companies and those who have minor assets. So far, these were only property-free entities, and now there is an expansion of the circle and to those whose value of the assets could not cover the costs of conducting the liquidation or bankruptcy procedure, which is why these proceedings, in fact, have no real meaning. The amendments and additions to the law have established that this property is of minor value, as well as the conditions in which the commercial court will carry out the process of eradicating the company from the register under official duty. Therefore, it will be in those cases where a trading company does not submit, for three years in a row, financial reports which are required under the law to be submitted. Therefore, this amendment and addition will create conditions for another mass cleaning of the court register from inactive business entities. What's wrong with that is that thousands of companies that generated huge debts will be wiped out and opened all new and new companies precisely for reasons not to settle those debts. Because which would actually be another reason and would be to start a new company if already on the existing entrepreneur had actually registered all the entrepreneurial activities other than those that were banned, so the supply of weapons and drugs. I will remind you of a Portuguese proverb that says "who pays late, twice pays", and the version of that Portuguese proverb in these Croatian terms could be said who doesn't pay at all is forgiven. In this way, as this law regulates, bad entrepreneurs will again be amnesty by responsibility. And when I talk about bad entrepreneurs, then I think they didn't have the number of people who didn't pay their creditors, they didn't pay their workers, they didn't pay the state, but for the money of all those who didn't pay, they bought fairies and apartments and expensive cars and yachts, aircraft, art, they traveled the world, and they afforded other kinds of undeserved luxury. And none of these entrepreneurs corresponded to their private assets even though the law provided for such a possibility because he transferred the property to his closest relatives and made it inaccessible to state institutions that could actually put salt on his tail. It was only to the height of the founding capital, and we know that in our terms it is symbolic, so it amounts to 20 thousand kuna. Of course, the failure to settle obligations did not take place without the blessing of the Ministry of Finance or, specifically, without the blessing of the Tax Administration, which has really contributed to development, we could say the culture of non-payment. For years, net salaries were allowed to be paid without taxes and contributions, wages were tolerated through union accounts, payments below the table, payments in bonuses, etc. So in Croatia, really, the idea of bypassing the law is never missing. Also, the tax administration did not launch bankruptcy even though it was legally mandatory to do so. She didn't do it for a variety of reasons, from clienteleist favors to keeping social peace. One of the reasons is quite odd, it was unacceptable that the state budget did not provide funds for the court’s bankruptcy fee. By not moving the bankruptcy, the tax administration actually extended the agony of the companies unable to pay, and so it encouraged the chain spread of liquidity and allowed the property of the entrepreneurs not to be paid in full, the thefts so that in most cases the bankruptcy mass remained zero. And then such a company is simply deleted from the court register because it doesn't have so much property that this property can cover bankruptcy costs, and unfortunately the owner remains intact robbery property. At this point I will say there are slightly less than 800 bankruptcys in Croatia, but if the formal reason was respected, so the legal reason for the launch of bankruptcy, which is 60 days of inability to pay, would actually be a third of Croatian companies. 19 thousand companies are practically dead, and their outstanding debts exceed 12 billion kuna and these are companies that have no property or property to launch bankruptcy proceedings and will simply be wiped out of the court register, and their owners will be amnested by responsibility for the huge financial disorder they have made in the Croatian economy and for the spilling out of such a valuable economic substance, worth eto billion kuna in their own private pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76825	Thank you. It's our guest, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So I think any attempt to solve someone's indifference problem is commendable, any attempt to secure a charge to someone if they've done something to someone, did a service is commendable. But frankly speaking and agreeing with some debates, we will not solve the problem with political debates, and that is definitely the case. So I was talking about the genealogy of the problem, but what's true and what no one here wants to admit is that so far society with limited responsibility could only... Only one, and that's the basic problem of this whole story. [[You don't understand.]] That's why the personal identification number didn't fully function and we all knew that it wouldn't work because of the land books because it's a terrible problem and it's being solved. However, 50,000 companies, I apologize if I have wronged the figure, which was established before the amendment of the Court Register Act, were founded so that five people form, I take it by heart, the number of five people establish a limited-responsibility society, according to only one. They regulated their rights and obligations with some kind of stock, social or other legal document. And now look, why this should have been done, for the simple reason, when you type in an OIB from someone, a complete range of companies where he owns, co-owner and companies where his companies are owners, co-owners and founders. And then all these statements are unnecessary. Why, because there's a register in the tax administration and only a few people can enter an authorised register, it automatically withdraws all data. The only thing that's problematic is the information about the mutual debt of companies. And these are the facts and that was why it went into the establishment of the OIB. So let's not have one project that's good, just because HDZ started it now in a certain way push it like this, but let's go see where the project is stuck. And what I said when I was correcting my colleague, Korakevic, in fact, excuse my colleague Ingrid Antičević, so at the moment when the debt that the undeniable court has reached a verdict within 15, 20 days to collect all these stories in 80% of cases will become unnecessary. But if you wait 7, 8, 10 years to collect that claim until then you and your firm go bankrupt. Then that whole story loses its meaning. So when we talk about this problem, then we also have to touch something that no one has said today, and that's connected society. We have a law that defines what societies are related to. However, the very establishment of a lot of companies in this way has practically lost track of the related societies. And we, with this OIB, find this link and make a legal change about the definition of related societies, then we will completely eliminate that someone can start a company and owe some money. We know well that the big problem with amending the Law on Court Registers has been the definition of how and how to install this provision that someone must make a statement or something without being contrary to the directives of the European Union. And that's what to say. In fact, I think 6, 7 months have been asked for a formulation that will be acceptable to the members of the European Union. Also, running ahead of the ore with amendments to certain laws has led to this today. The amendment to the Law on the Pension and Health Insurance Fund in 2002 and the amendment of the Law on Payments has led to this mess which is now under way. Why? Because we were unprepared for it. And when that took hold, then some things are very, very difficult to correct. So I'm saying, we've entered from an agreed economy, from a system where payments were strictly controlled through ZAP, in a country that may have had two or three thousand companies at that time. We came into a system that has over 100,000 companies and we gave payment traffic, practically dispersed everyone in Croatia who works with money. I mean, business banks. Instead of just because of the large increase in the commercial companies, payment traffic remains in one system until certain rules of conduct are accepted and then the system can function. And now we can move lefts and rights to each other one way or another. But we definitely have the situation we have. And this is one step to get out of that situation. But definitely at the moment when the High Court of Commerce, all companies seduced through the OIB, then we'll have a clear situation. And that should be made clear. Without it, the OIB was one of the projects nominated in 2008 for the 10 best IT projects from the World Bank. But I'm saying, you can't talk about the government and this anymore. The judiciary is independent. And let's not put a ball on someone else here right now. There's definitely a ball in here right now, and I say it openly where the problem is. And the problem cannot be solved by Minister Bosnjakovic as justice minister, because he cannot order a judicial authority to do something. But if we all said, we realized that this was a problem then they had to create a technical prerequisite for this problem to start being solved. It was 13.10.2010, so it was 31.12.2010, so it was moved later. And I don't know if it's still regulated or not. The property of society. My colleague Jelash you spoke of something, but you forgot that there was an amendment to the Law on profit tax and the Income Tax Law where the problem was clearly defined by this particular one you were saying, which is the use of commercial property for private purposes. Therefore, by amending the last Tax on Profits Act, this is clearly defined and clearly defined. At the moment when a new car and yacht tax law is passed, that thing will be cleared to the end. The property of society. Well, that's exactly the problem I was talking about, which is the connection between society. Because if you have a limited liability company that doesn't practically have a single employee, and it's some kind of machine that's been purchased and an amortisation is being calculated in that company, but it's not being introduced as company property. He's starting another company and with these same machines he's doing, then that's exactly the problem I'm talking about. When we talk about liquidation and accelerated bankruptcy, we have to keep an eye on something, and that is that no matter what legal reason it was to launch if any believer who has a credible record shows up that this entrepreneur we are, actually the company that we sent into liquidation under that law, that whole process falls into the water. And that was why it didn't go into these accelerated liquidation processes, because we simply can't forbid anyone who had the right to apply to bankruptcy, that if there goes an accelerated liquidation not to demand his rights. So it was one of the problems that was very difficult to solve precisely because of a large company, which is somewhere around 20 thousand companies that currently do not have any employees and which account for a total of 65% of the blocked companies in the Republic of Croatia and account for about 70% of the total funds blocked. And so that's definitely a problem to think about and to be solved. But I repeat, the only real instrument to solve this is a personal identification number. And now we can move this or that to the government for political reasons. All institutions in the government's jurisdiction, where the government could have ordered it, did so practically by half last year. So at this point you can withdraw information about securities transactions without a problem, you can withdraw information about who the owner is and how many shares. The only thing that cannot be withdrawn is land books and data on limited liability companies from the High Court of Commerce. That's the only two information I can't pull back. One is a justification for the situation we've had, but the other has no excuse. And here, when we talk about this court register, let's not forget that there is another link here, which unfortunately according to the law in which they are bound by their obligations is fully guaranteed by their property. Why? Because the twist is bound to a practically physical person. But you have a problem when due to the provisions of the Law on Profit Tax, a craftsman must keep his business books according to the Law on Profit Tax and then they have this transformation from craft to a company. And then there's the problem with the tax status of that asset that's being invested in that company. So, for every praise of this amendment to the law. I've tried to warn you of some things that several ministries have to resolve by amending the law. They can only be as an upgrade to this with the key and the first step being the High Court of Commerce, a personal identification number for 50,000 companies established prior to the adoption of this register. And then it'll be easier for everyone. And I think this is a topic that simply doesn't suffer political bickering, because colleagues and colleagues, don't take this as a predetermination, remember the 2002 Law on outstanding claims, it was valid until 1.3.2003.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76827	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76828	Please, just one more sentence, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, no effect has been extended, and most of these companies, unfortunately, are still in this story today. So the problem is here, let's solve it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76829	Thank you very much. And as the last on the list is the distinguished representative Mariana. Excuse me, replicated representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76830	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, and through this replica, I want to agree again with you about part of the explanation when you mentioned the problem gene in 2002. However, I would be very happy to hear, and many here want to hear, which are the problems, which are the problems that have arisen that in 9 years we haven't been able to correct something that may have been done badly in 2002, the transfer of payment traffic, 9 years we haven't been able to get it back into some sort of system. Around the OIB, we agree here, there is really no politicizing, and we all agreed in this assembly that the OIB is one good solution, a quality solution that needs to be supported, so it is incomprehensible that we as a state, as a society, have not been able to take all the necessary measures that one such information called the OIB, which depends on, that it does not work. It's incomprehensible to me. It's incomprehensible. Do these people, regardless of the judiciary, so it's a flossula. In this story it's a pure alibi story. Do the people who run the land books, who work on land books, get paid? They're winning. Do the people in the trade court, I mean this is the eighth change of registers, win, win. So, I would really, since you were a member of the government for a long time, really interested me in what were the restrictions that all of what you were proposing today as a solution, that there was no possibility or willingness, and in the finality and political will when we were talking about the OIB that it was functioning and that something we brought to the Parliament, which we agreed that it was necessary and necessary, that we did not create a prerequisite for it to function.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76831	Replication response, esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76832	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, First for the OIB. I didn't say they weren't... I said what's the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the technical preconditions are created. Why didn't the High Court of Commerce do that I can't do that to them, simply not even the Prime Minister can't order it, because they would automatically say it interferes with the judiciary. So let's not now, this situation in the land books, I'm going to tell you something now, these colleagues from the Ministry of Justice can confirm, at the moment that the introduction of the OIB is only 5% I think the total owners of the country in the Republic of Croatia in the land books were recorded through a single birth number, and the unique birth number was an identification mark for the translation of people into the OIB to say so, and legal persons. That's the facts. And so we can fight as politically as we please, that's how it is. But that's what this is about. And as for payment traffic, I said as soon as I mentioned in 2002 that I didn't intend to move any ball. However, counterpart Koracevic changes payment traffic every two years is a disaster. Remember what happened to FINA, which the problems of FINA were because suddenly because of changes in one, the second and third laws stayed, they got 3,000 extra people who simply did the job, they didn't do it. And I say no, without intending to transfer it to anyone, but that's simply the facts, the business banks are getting into that story, they've been pasting pay traffic to be done over them, to take compensation, to get clients in that way, and it's all wonderful and wonderful. However, look at the blockades and the percentage of government claims charged, look at the percentage of blockages charged among banks, you'll understand. Therefore, we may have just jumped on a train too soon, although if you look at the little thinking now of the members of the European Union, then you will see that they are just thinking about the payment system that Croatia had until 2002. So I'm saying maybe sometimes we should wait and take a step to do this, but for the OIB, believe that the government did.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76833	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76834	Anything that could have worked.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76835	Thank you very much. But good, and another distinguished representative, Mariana Petyr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76836	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with fellow Members, MPs and MPs. Well, I agree with those colleagues and colleagues who pointed out that these amendments and additions to the law bring about significant improvements. I would like to point out one example that I was introduced to craftsmen, the Zagreb Chamber of craftsmen, who I think is an exception, and it turns out that we may at times bring here in good faith and ideal laws, but when we try to implement them in practice, then we become entangled in certain parts. The craftsmen of the city of Zagreb met me that there is an initiative that is also harmonised at the level of the craft chamber and the town itself, about the construction of a crafts house, along the area which is located next to the University Hospital of Zagreb, which is in the process of liquidation. However, because of unresolved property relations, they can't actually go into the whole process, no matter what they have to produce project documentation, talk to potential investors, because of the different interpretations of Article 84. The law on the court register. As far as I am aware, you in the Ministry of Justice have in some way given positive interpretation to the Commercial Court, but still in the Trade Court different judges thinking in a different way, which only shows that we as legislators, or the Ministry of Justice as a Proposer, and we who confirmed this law were not quite clear what we wanted to say to those 84, in particular, paragraph 84e, if the different judges interpreted this article in a different way. So I would actually appeal to you here, that as the Ministry of Justice try to find a concrete solution for this case, because it seems to me that neither the case-law has had such examples so far, so there is no experience in the Republic of Croatia when decisions are made on companies in which the rest of the liquidation mass will, in the process of winding up by official duty, make property, or property of great value, and my view that for this reason, it is necessary to strengthen this proposal in some way, or to complete it. So we all know that this clinical hospital is a new Zagreb, after which the name Zagreb University Hospital was changed in its establishment, started long ago, but even its registration was never completed in the Commercial Court, then the city of Zagreb made a decision on liquidation, but not according to my information at the Commercial Court, so the procedure was never initiated and there were certain problems, in fact with the property that binds itself to the University Hospital of Zagreb. Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of Article 84e of the Court Register Act, I would say that the members of the company may ask the Registrar Court to transfer the rest of the company’s liquidation mass to them in the proportion of their shares in the company, in this case, they would be real estate, and if the members of the company do not request the remainder of the liquidation mass of the company in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 84e of the Court Register Act, the income of the State budget. But apparently in the Trade Court, it is interpreted in different ways, so here I am asking the Secretary of State to consult with the minister because I assume both craftsmen will contact you. It seems to me that this is extremely important to resolve because we have practically dead capital that is not operational, and could be used according to their words for something that would be extremely useful, which is the Zagreb crafts centre where we would unite all the important economic development factors of the City of Zagreb in one place. I believe it would be one base for a future that would have other contents. And in this sense there are experiences in other countries, we know when we visit other countries that they have such crafts centres, and yet craftsmen represent me as one of the best forms of self-employment. It is about people who regularly pay their obligations to the state and in that segment should surely be valued and met. So here I am asking you as proposing that you consider this problem which is obviously a problem since judges are widely interpreting the article of this law and that by intervention through the amendment of the Government we actually correct it so that no more problems like this arise in implementing or postponing judgments because it is not known what the legislator meant to say to this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76837	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Zoran Piculjan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76838	Very briefly, Mr. Vice President. Here's all these discussions actually indicate that this bill is founded. No one questioned him. The materials that have been created in the implementation of particularly eradicating them from the Court Register actually indicate that these amendments proposed are a legal instrument that is significantly better than the current solutions. I thank all clubs for supporting this proposal, and regarding the amendments, we will declare ourselves later on, and also regarding this initiative of the Chamber of Commerce, which we will legitimately regulate, although one part is undoubtedly in the domain of the judiciary and their interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76839	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76840	Let's move on. We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 851, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who is agreeing to conduct a debate on the government's amendment, please raise your hand? Thank you. Do you mind? There isn't. Roger that. I find that we have accepted from 112 votes to discuss the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment submitted concerning Article 6. Here you go, Mrs. Tatiana Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76841	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government shall propose in Article 70(1) beyond the words: insignificant values are added words: i.e. which did not comply with the regulation to be complied with within the prescribed time limit. In paragraph 3, the words shall be added after the words under official duty if the registration entity has not complied within the prescribed time limit with the regulation to be complied with, respectively. In paragraph 6, the point shall be deleted and the point and the words and words shall be added unless the subject of the registration has been complied with within the prescribed time limit to comply with the regulation in which the court will by decision appoint the liquidator to carry out the winding-up. In the event of an appropriate application of the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies, the cost of liquidation of the proceedings will be assumed by the registration entity or by another person who has made it likely that the registration entity has the property. If the amount necessary to cover the costs of the winding-up is not exceeded, the court may determine that the costs of the winding-up are settled from the assets of the registration entity. The reasons are, in relation to the previous text of Article 70, the provisions in paragraphs 1, 3 and 6 which address the subject of the registration in the court register for which he was requested but has not been implemented until the end of the registration procedure, i.e. those which have stopped before the establishment itself, so it is a problem to delete them from the register, of course how to liquidate what is not even established. This solves things like this. the subject of the liquidation of Blato Hospital in Zagreb, which remained an entity in establishment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76842	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. Any interest? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the government's amendment to the vote. Please raise your hands who's for the amendment to the government? Thank you. Do you mind? Restraint? 116 votes in favour, so the government's amendment was accepted. The amendment was also submitted by the SDP Representatives Club relating to Article 40(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76843	The applicant does not accept the amendments. The statement referred to in Article 40a would, in addition to the proposed addendum, constitute an additional condition which is not set out in the second company law directive 77 of '91, i.e. in the 11th Directive 666 of '89. years of changes. Member States of the European Union, as well as Croatia which harmonises its legislation with EU legislation, are not able to prescribe new conditions for the establishment of a registration entity in the court register.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76844	Thank you. On behalf of the club Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76845	After eight years, we have managed to amend Article 40 and that the failure to pay workers, as well as taxes to the state, will be a condition under which, if it is not done, it is not paid, the one who has liquidated that company cannot start a new company. However, both other believers and other believers should be protected, whether they are creditors, or suppliers of slaves. How are you going to tell your employers what is a loyal competition when you tolerate, so that which remains millions of dollars to another supplier, liquidated the company, drained the funds and proceeds peacefully with business. You're saying it's not under the second company law directive. It's true, but there's no such problem in Europe. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76846	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I would like to vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Court Register Act. Please, let's get involved and vote on the law. The result? This law was adopted by the majority of votes, 109 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against, together with the accepted amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76847	Moving to point 5. - Final proposal of the Law on Juvenile Courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 828 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zoran Piculjan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76848	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is today a large set of laws in the field of justice we end up with one equally important law, the Law on Juvenile Courts, the final proposal of that law. What this law says is that the specificities of the proceedings against minors are, in fact, the establishment of an institute that will be in line with the new Criminal Procedure Act, but also with international documents, but all in the best interests of minors who are in the process. There is no doubt about the complex law. A law which is not simple, a law which covers the material and legal provisions of criminal law, the organisational provisions of the courts for youth, the specific provisions of criminal proceedings governing the conduct of cases against minors and the instructions on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the final and rules on the protection of children. What is almost part of the principles discussed in the first reading and which is incorporated into this law is the principle that declares the obligation to act urgently in these procedures. The principle of exclusive judicial decision on the rights and obligations of a person of obligation to defend against minors. Also, it may even be concrete, but yet the principle that a juvenile defender can only be a lawyer. Newspapers extending into both legal readings are, above all, a mandatory examination of minors as the first evidence action in the process, irrespective of whether it is just a translation of the evidence shop or of the conduct of the preparatory procedure. These are concrete newspapers, and other important concrete newspapers are related to a solution that, when pre-proposing for a statement, a proposal to impose minor sanctions, the State's attorney must question a minor. This is a provision that gives a minor an opportunity, an opportunity to plead on a criminal application before a proposal is put in place to impose a minor sanction. In addition, it is concluded in this law that Articles 113 to 121 provides for the criminal protection of children with several solutions worth pointing out, at least two of them, that the child’s study may be attended by a person whose child is trusted and that the child must not be examined only in court but also in his apartment and in another specially equipped space. All of this seems to us since the first reading, and it was highlighted by me thinking almost uniquely in this high House, actually creating a powerful instrumentation in the process of protecting the rights of minors in the process. What happened between the two readings is actually a reaction, a response to the proposals made in the parliamentary debate. So I'll just point out two or three things. The possibility of providing safety measures to all minors has also been accepted and developed. This was the proposal of the Committee on the Justice of the Croatian Parliament, and yet the concept of a state lawyer to act before a court through a concept that is actually much more precise, which is the State's Youth Lawyer. What is also important is that a minor may be involved in the mediation procedure through an extrajudicial settlement. This is an important paper in which the State's attorney applies the practical principle of opportunity and legality and the favorite of the minor himself. In the text it is otherwise, this text is a reaction and the final text is a reaction to the amendment of the Social Care Act, so social work centres are renamed to social work offices in the counties, and the whole text is actually in line with the Law on Criminal Procedure from 1 July 2011. I repeat it to us and we have opinions and this is what discussions have shown that this law is actually a very good instrument for the conduct of courts for youth in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76849	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And first it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76850	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP club must regrettably conclude that the government rejects a logical concept that the proceedings against minors cannot be equated with those against minors and for which a unilateral investigation is intended, or an investigation conducted by the State's Attorney's Office. The argument given by the Government why it does not accept this concept is also surprising, so the state's attorney's office has advisers who can advise him on how to approach a minor, therefore, and all that such advisers do. That means the government doesn't know or understand at all that the State's Attorney's office is chasing and that it's interested in proving the defendant guilty and finding evidence against the suspects. And that's why criminal proceedings are against the defendants. The minors are completely different. No one's thinking about it, and he doesn't have to be a lawyer and deal with this problem so he doesn't give a criminal case against a minor. You've never heard of it before. You've always heard of minors. Because that's always been the way it's always been. Because a minor needs to be raised and that's the point. If we find ways to re-creation both of the adult convicts and the whole sense of the penalty system is exactly the re-creation not only of revenge. Then, to the greatest extent possible, this is also used for minors. The opinion managed by the SDP club on this proposal is precisely on the trail of experts from the Supreme Court judges and, in particular, the judge who was the chairman of the Youth Council, Ms. Erika Kocijančić, who spent her entire working life in the Youth Council and who knows very well and who is indeed the authority in this issue. How the State's Attorney's Office can play and these are psychologically incompatible roles that can be in one person, that it can be both persecutor and defender. It can't be. That is why, when the investigation was also a court case, it was therefore a two-sided investigation, because at that stage of the case, it was already seeking evidence against both the defendants and the evidence that contributed to the defendant. And then in some development of criminal proceedings was a victory over those police investigations, it was the victory of judicialisation of the investigation that formed a judge who was then a bailiff and the protection of the defendants but also the search and security of evidence for the subsequent proceedings. And we left the two-party investigation precisely because it was done by many of the countries that were... and which were practically the cradle of such a system and we gave the investigation to the State Attorney's Office that conducted the unilateral investigation. But it gave up in the last changes that occurred this way overnight past the public knowledge and was given to the state's attorney's office in the obligation probably by listening and crying out from a neighboring country of a known prisoner, that that's why he doesn't know why he's being prosecuted, and then the government changed the CAP overnight without the knowledge of the public and gave up the basic concept that investigations were secret and the duty of a state attorney to inform the suspect against whom criminal charges were filed. And so let him know. It's got something to do with this, now you're gonna see it like that. And thus let him know that a criminal record has been filed against him, and that they will do certain deeds. so that a man prepares himself, to prepare witnesses to cover his tracks, to destroy his tracks. Obviously, the results of such a CAP were too much of a bite for the government to seek the truth but not in such a form and scope, so it cannot bear it. That's it. Now a whole concept like that is completely wrong, which therefore serves the defendants for the adult. In the case of minors, bearing in mind the so far-proclaimed objectives and the purpose of criminal law provisions in relation to minor perpetrators of criminal offences as well as international documents, these are primarily the UN's standard minimum rules for juvenile justice. Let's remember these are those famous Beijing rules. We believe that the proposed solutions are not in line with these principles and that they are a step back in current practice but also in legislative solutions. And it can't be. Because for adults, we also have the Code of Criminal Procedure and we have procedural rules and we have the material rights contained in the Penal Code. And this law and this kind of Law on Juvenile Courts also contain procedural and material law. And how do you even get the idea to investigate and send minors to the State's Attorney's office and not to a youth judge? According to the existing Law on Courts of Youth in the focus of criminal proceedings against minors, it was to provide protection, care, assistance and supervision. That was Article 5 of the existing law. The provisions of Article 72(1) of the Law also show that the educational impact on minors of criminal offences should be initiated during the course of the proceedings and continued at the trial stage. So we all know who did this, and we don't need a man to be a good knower of the procedure that only conducts a procedure for adulthood means one way or another, because it causes discomfort and all of the psychological processes in which such a person is found before the court. So the sooner a minor should start such a process and continue in the trial phase and then in the sanctioning process, and then lead to a whole educational process in the treatment of minors. According to the Beijing rules, rule 5.1 stands out for the purposes of juvenile justice, I quote: the welfare of minors and guarantees that the purpose of the reaction to minors will be in line with the circumstances related to the perpetrator and the work done, and in general 14.2 that it is necessary to lead the procedure in the best interests of minors and to implement in the atmosphere of understanding that will enable the minor to participate and express freely. We believe that the proposed legal solutions represent the deterioration of the status of minor perpetrators of criminal offences and the loss and confiscation of bankruptcy properties, and that is the abandonment and tradition that we in our history, in our legal order were a country which was then also a guideline to many countries that had a more regulated judiciary. But with regard to the juvenile trial and the repression of juvenile delinquency, we have been far ahead of many, many European Union countries. In England, Great Britain, the big problem is almost insurmountable, juvenile delinquency, and they have the treatment there that minors respond in the same way almost equal to serious crimes as the adult. There should not be a special expert here that the same sanctions cannot be for minors and for minors because we deny at all the development of such a person who, at some early stage, is not naturally completed. We think that the protection of the interests and well-being of minors should remain fully in the sphere of jurisdiction of the judge for youth, therefore both in the preparatory procedure and in the phase of the trial. During the course of the proceedings, the youth judge should be careful not to endanger the juvenile's right. The judge for youth represents the insurance of minors' rights in the process. So, let's keep the state's attorney, or the state's attorneyship as a whole, his deputies for just a minor, and let's not relativize his role and force him to do it legally when they start doing well, when they have good results thanks to the changes and the adoption of a new Criminal Procedure Act, these last changes that you practically question everything that has been done and I repeat, which has begun to produce results. Therefore, when it comes to the treatment of minors, a tendency should be expressed for the rearing, needs and breakthroughs of youth. That's why the judge is also wanted, for a young man's judge, for exactly the same characteristics, for judges jurors are sought precisely by persons who have had experience in training and in relation to young people, with children and with young people, whether they have worked as breeders, teachers, teachers, teachers. That's not wanted for other jurors, not for murder, not for robbery, not for robbery, that they worked in Finland, at the bank, could be any citizen, but for minors it's always been required. Well, it's not a joke and it's not some new wetland of ours, it's our good traditions we shouldn't give up on. Therefore, the separation of the preparatory procedure from the judge for youth and the introduction of a state lawyer at that stage of criminal proceedings is the never-seen model of juvenile law and the split of the role of judge for youth from the former single role of judge for youth as an investigative judge, as the President of the Council at the stage of the trial and judge at the stage of control and supervision of the execution of sanctions. Therefore, the two functions of a judge do not constitute a violation of the right to a fair court or are contrary to Article 6. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms as the European Court of Human Rights in its decision of 2 July '92. the year when he discussed the principle of whether Article 6(1) would be a matter of principle. The Convention should apply in the juvenile procedure in the same way as in the criminal proceedings against the adult offenders of criminal offences, but the judge has explicitly stated... I mentioned this to you last time, on behalf of the SDP Club, that every minor has the right to equal protection of his rights as well as a minor, but also the state of development of his personality, and therefore his limited social responsibilities should be taken into account in the application of Article 6. So, what's the point? [[You don't understand.]] When we pass laws that we sort of forgive for the adult people who cheated, robbed, and now faster or better before the election, laws that bring down all such behaviors are passed, we turn the edge of our justice and criminal legal reactions to the weakest, to the minors. What weaknesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76851	Well, thank you very much. Now it's the honorable representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76852	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Final Bill on Youth Courts. The Law on Juvenile Courts was first introduced in the criminal law of the Republic of Croatia when it was adopted in 1997 and those laws regulated and material and legal provisions as we have heard the procedural provisions and provisions and provisions of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, but also provisions in the event of a criminal offence to the harm of a minor or child, and it is certainly necessary that such a law was necessary because of the specificity and mental nature of minors and children. Now there is a new law, which is proposed for reasons, and I commend the promoter for proposing a whole new text of the law, predicting that amendments and additions would have to be implemented through a third of the existing law. Why did he have to comply with the provisions of the law so far? For the simple reason that in those over 10 years the law of '97 is applied. who survived two amendments, but there have been a number of new criminal justice institutes mainly compared to minor offenders. In this respect, the criminal law theory and practices in Europe and in the world developed, and thus this new law was to be brought into line, as well as with all new provisions and the nature of the conduct of criminal proceedings by adopting the Criminal Procedure Act. Therefore, it is certain that special regulations are needed to treat minor offenders and minor victims of a criminal offence. It is equally certain that society should be protected, that society should protect the fundamental social values that are also protected by material and legal provisions, even when the perpetrators are minors. We are witnessing that minors are perpetrators and serious crimes and serious aggressive crimes. You don't have to deny it and close it in front of those eyes. But it is equally clear that sanctions and treatment of minors must primarily focus on education, on resociation and on the implementation of educational measures during the execution of sanctions. In this respect, the provisions of this Law and the general trend of criminal justice towards young people in Europe are, above all, directed towards education and alternative sanctions. I would not say that the proposal of this law is a hindrance to what has been regulated so far. On the contrary, we shall see it immediately in a few of the terms of this Law. Therefore, the important feature of this proposed law is precisely that the central and active role of the court in relation to the minor perpetrator, but also of the minor victim of this Act is guaranteed such that the rights and interests of minors are optimally possible and that it is exclusively judicial decision-making in all cases when it comes to procedures in law and freedom, inviolability of persons etc. Mandatory defense of a minor has been extended. So a minor must have a defense, i.e. the defendant from the first examination to a powerful, final solution, the final completion of the criminal proceedings, and when a decision is taken to amend the educational measure by means of a law enforcement measure and in the case of the subsequent statement of the juvenile institution. And now that mandatory defense no longer depends on the severity of the crime, so regardless of the severity of the crime he committed, he must have the defense from the first trial and that defence can only be given to him by a lawyer. These are all provisions that go to protect rights, so minors. What is also important is that the whole law declares the principle of urgency. Therefore, all actions against minors when they are perpetrators or victims must be of an urgent nature. Minors can be given educational measures, juvenile prisons, and security measures. And here's another way to say it is to ease the criminal provisions of a minor is that the provisions of this proposed law provide that a juvenile prison can only be given to an elderly minor. That's how it's been so far. But now only if the law stipulates the sentence of imprisonment for three years or more severe punishment. So, not for any crime. Even when such punishment is always given the nature and severity and the high degree of guilt if it is, when it is estimated to be justified. New measures are also introduced for the specific obligations of controlled availability of income, restraining and harassment, etc. So, a series of measures that go precisely to keep the minor as far as possible, to protect his rights. But, of course, it can't be impunity to commit criminal acts, and that, in most cases, and whenever possible, an educational measure is expressed. This Law also provides for cases of mandatory, i.e. mandatory separation of proceedings if the offence is committed with a minor, in order to compulsory separation of proceedings against a minor who will then be conducted in accordance with this Law on Juvenile Courts, except in exceptional cases. Also in the case of arrest and detention, strict conditions are prescribed when, for how long, the detention is to be notified immediately by the Judge for Youth and the State's Attorney for Youth and the Centre for Social Care and Parents or Trustees, etc. In the event where conditions exist for determining an investigative prison, and this will also be in exceptional cases, it shall be determined that this investigative prison may be exclusively accommodation in a closed office and that it can only be determined by a minor as a final measure if the purpose and objective would not be achieved by applying some other measure. For example, measures of caution, temporary accommodation or prison of investigation at home. In this way, it is ensured that, according to a minor and during that time, educational measures, treatment measures can be implemented, and that the time spent in such an institution can also be included and the punishment can be avoided, i.e. by law, that a minor cannot be placed in an investigative prison. So, a simple investigative prison along with the perpetrators of other criminal measures in which he, instead of acting up, is actually still studying in any kind of criminal skill. The paper is also that mandatory examination of minors in the first evidence action has been introduced, so these are all provisions that go in the direction of protecting the rights of minors. There was also a talk about the conduct of a state's attorney's investigation that would somehow be too much of a persecutive minor, so the job is to prosecute the perpetrators of a crime, this is about perpetrators of a crime, but sui generis, and therefore also in the case of a lawyer, but also in the case of the police and the jobs, so as judges for youth, which are named by the youngsters for five years, there are also state lawyers specialised in the treatment of minors, and also police officers for youth and youth investigators, and these are, of course, all the people who have the gift of dealing with youth who work educationally and who ultimately have some educational and educational knowledge. Perhaps, in the end, just to say something about the fact that this law also determines the conduct in the case of a victim of a child's crime, in that sense, in that part of the child's notion is determined in the same way as in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, so any person who is not 18 years old is considered to be considered a child, here I warn of a different definition of child's criminal responsibility, where a child is considered a person who is not 14 years old, in terms of criminal responsibility, so it is likely to be a new amendment to the law, the Penal Code will be uniformly arranged. Therefore, Article 113 of the team is prescribed exactly for which acts committed at the expense of children are tried by youth courts, what is important to say is that, always in the doubt or competition of the ordinary court and the court of youth, the court has the advantage of a court of youth, so in all criminal acts against sexual freedom and sexual law, against marriage, family, youth, serious murder, murder, suicide, unlawful confiscation of freedom, kidnapping, abuse in the exercise of service or public authority, trafficking in human beings and slavery, international prostitution, transfer of sexual disease, violent behaviour will be competent courts for youth if the victim is a child's victim of criminal activity. Here is why we hold that this new proposal of the Youth Court Act is a step forward in primarily protecting young people, but of course also protecting social goods from perpetrators of criminal offences, because we believe that this law achieves a balance between the need to protect human rights and perpetrators and victims, in order to achieve a balance in that sanctions especially against minors, above all, must be brought up, through sanctioning educational treatment, education, and must also act preventively in order to prevent any of these perpetrators, any other perpetrators from repeating criminal acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76853	Thank you. We have one individual debate, and this is the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate. So here I think that we are all witnesses and that we are all concerned, we should be concerned about increasing violence between children and children and, of course, children over adults even. All actions of course towards minors, i.e. the conduct of all institutions, should, of course, be speedier, and it is a duty to act as soon as possible. I'm not quite sure that on the matter of urgency in the course of action, I haven't actually been able to understand the mechanism of control or sanctions, if the court doesn't carry out an emergency procedure committed by a minor or committed to the harm of a minor, so here's the question, if you can answer me later. This is usually very important, because it is very important for minors to spend a little time with a child due to the socialist effect, i.e. that the shorter the time from the beginning of the work, to the effect that society must offer as a response to the minor, and all those working on the problem are aware of how big the problem is, or how large the number of minors is on a special obligation, i.e. on average 6 months after the work is done. I would also point out here, I would actually refer to the rejected SDP proposal on retaining the notion of a youth judge, in which the motion rejects this proposal by saying that in courts, there are professional associates, that are social workers, or social educators, who can actually help to initiate or conduct the proceedings themselves against minors, but I am sure that in all courts there are no, there are also a number of small courts, by smaller towns that also process minors, either under this law or by breaking law, so I am not sure that there are social workers everywhere, or social educators who assist in the same. The crimes of minors must be of concern to us because of the heisting thefts have turned into more serious acts. Therefore, the procedure that we do when dealing with minors must be brought up in terms of both protection and care and assistance and supervision, but also mentioned the speeds I said, because if it is safe for a long time that this can't have an educational effect on a minor. You're suggesting that it's actually done by state lawyers, that they're investigating minors, but that's the whole process, but we're wondering if they're prepared enough, whether they're trained enough. Why do I keep saying that? Well, that's why, because of the sensitive subject area, or objects. For minors in the investigation should be a judge for minors, not a state lawyer, yet they are age groups, when you look at them from 14 to 16 years of age, 16 to 18 older, or 18 to 21 younger minors. So, they're all children and I'm very glad that it's by definition and that it agrees with the rights of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is actually what they're spoken of as children in this case because that is the way they should actually be treated as children. And here I'm going to mention prevention. We have children to see, hear, respect, and I have to appeal from family to us here to the government, etc. It is also our responsibility that has actually come to us, as we speak of these criminal acts. Responsibility is and should always be indicated for prevention. I must say that it is very good that mandatory defence is extended in such a way that the defender from the first trial to the end of the criminal proceedings the child must have mandatory defence, regardless of the severity of the crime. I'm also going to repeat the concept of a child up to 18 years old and this Article 113 that I don't repeat what all the courts for youth are really doing, or what all the acts are being punished in this way. And of course I also welcome this proposal that children who are victims of criminal acts can, of course, be conducted at home, or not in institutions. And I think it can be very educational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76855	Thank you very much, ma'am. The last reported debate is that of the respected representative Ivan Škaricic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am, I'd actually be involved here in a tragedy that I had in my own family, and it's about juvenile crime, or murder, that made two minors, older minors, breaking into my uncle's house somewhere behind midnight, and they basically beat him up on a bed in his sleep. With 34 hits proven by a crowbar. What I've been offered as a man here is family, but even if I'm going to discuss this here, I think the punishments for this kind of action are too mild. There's a law here in Article 25 for 10 years. And I think it's an appropriate punishment, 10 years. However, it happens that the best lawyers who can be hired are engaged and that these penalties are not less than 5 years old. And it happens that the murder that took place with 34 hits by a crowbar by a court expert is not declared particularly cruel to keep the sentence... under five years. So if it's not particularly cruel murder, then I don't know what's particularly cruel murder because it was an explanation that the victim didn't die rudely, I don't know she died within five minutes, so he's not particularly cruel. So, this case, the Luke Ritz case, other cases that have been or will certainly be where such persons are, such perpetrators provoke in court, provoke journalists after all, and our judiciary sanctions them under 5 years in prison. I don't think we're doing anybody any favors here, not to them, not to us, not to society. That murder should be sanctioned in a way that is really sanctioned as a murder, that there are no such extenuating circumstances because these are truly bizarre and strange that I have now listed here and that should give an explicit sentence, so if it is minimum of 10 years, up to 10 years in prison means 10 years in prison for such a single murder. Because those murders and this, as far as we can see, Luke Ritz was committed out of pure obstetrics. And this thing that I was talking about in my own family, according to all my knowledge, is what they would say about us in Dalmatia from the jire of some kind, and it doesn't do a specific robbery of some kind. Here, the one that gets hit might think a little differently about this. I wouldn't want it to happen to any of us here or else, but unfortunately it will. In that sense, I believe that the legislator should review this article 25, which is now being offered by these here findings that I have presented on a specific case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76857	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Finally, on behalf of the promoter, the closing statement will have a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for the discussions both in the first and second readings. In fact, they all seem to me to show even those who do not go entirely and favor all the solutions of this law that basic solutions and individual concrete solutions of this law are held, can withstand all criticism. What is important and what needs to be answered is that the concept of a state-level law investigation is, in fact, one trend in the EU, in the EU countries, so implemented in Croatian legislation as a general principle of the Criminal Procedure Act. Of course, in the process of dealing with minors, the Law on Juvenile Courts actually respects all the specificities and sensitivity to the treatment of minors. The role of a youth judge at every stage of the procedure, and even at that stage of the procedure, is highlighted, and for example, we can say here in the case of the arrest of an investigative prison where the State's attorney is not, of course, not full freedom but also acts with the judge himself. The answer to the SDP counterparts is a strict responsibility for both state lawyers and judges not to implement this law and to violate the provisions of this law. And as we actually rise to a higher level of implementation of this, these sensitive substances in practice are things that, among other things, are concentration of proceedings in county courts and municipal courts in county headquarters. So, we are sure and all the debates show this, the expert debates in this House, the expert discussions that were conducted in working groups and in expert groups regarding this matter show that what guarantees the implementation of this law is actually the central and active role of the judge in almost all stages of the proceedings by or in all phases of the juvenile proceedings. It seems to us the best guarantee of implementation of this law. I thank you for your attention and for your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76859	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate on this final bill and we will vote on it as soon as the conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76860	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Juvenile Courts, P.Z. No. 828. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This was a second reading. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendment. Mrs. Novosel, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76861	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76862	Accepts? It becomes an integral part of the bill. Please, yes, the vote. Let's get involved and vote on the bill. The result? The bill was adopted by a majority of votes, 75 votes for, no abstentions and 26 against, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76863	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Transport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 837 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. The emergency procedure shall be applied in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and it shall unite the first and second readings of the law. The amendments can be submitted until the end of this debate, and the debate has been carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on European Integration, as well as by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received reports from the board at the session, and so far the amendment has been submitted by the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Daniel Mileta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76864	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Important Air Traffic Act was adopted in 2009 with previous consultations and in very close cooperation with European air transport experts. The same law is set out as a very general law containing principle provisions on all relevant aspects of civil aviation, and all further elements are detailed in the implementing rules to be adopted in accordance with this law with EU directives and with international contracts binding on the Republic of Croatia. And the name of the Republic of Croatia has the obligation to ensure full harmonisation of Croatian national legislation in the field of air traffic with the acquis of the EU, and all in accordance with the Agreement on a Common European Aviation Area with the so-called The ICAA deal. By ratifying this agreement, the Republic of Croatia has gained observer status at the European Aviation Safety Agency as the EU roof body responsible for air safety, and thus we have achieved certain obligations. I must say that in June 2010, the General Mobility and Transport Administration of the European Commission confirmed that the Republic of Croatia met all requirements of the first phase of the ICAA agreement, which was also one of the conditions for closing Chapter 14. - Traffic policy in EU accession negotiations. And now, although the expert teams of competent international organisations have identified the exceptional progress of the Republic of Croatia in the field of air traffic of this change and the addition of the Air Transport Act have been encouraged because they could say some 4 groups of elements. The first group is in fact a alignment with the European Commission's remarks, and therefore this law goes according to an urgent procedure. The second is alignment with international commitments and practices. The third is to comply with national applicable regulations such as the Law on General Administrative Procedure, and already when we went to change the existing text of the applicable law we tried to interpret and partially harmonise. When we talk about some concrete changes and additions as regards the European Commission, it demanded that the scope of our Civil Aviation Agency and the European Aviation Safety Agency be accurately distinguished. Further coordination is related to the findings of the European Commission, where it wants the national quality control programme for civil aviation protection to be separated from the national civil air traffic protection programme itself. There are still some such as the findings of this international civil aviation body that requires certain changes to the jurisdiction of our own Civil Aviation Agency. There I can still mention that we are now not going into detail to prescribe the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will establish civil airports that can be used for military purposes. It is also bound then to provide for the possibility that the Civil Aviation Agency may have certain authority and military equipment used for civil purposes, of course, with the consent and agreement with the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. There is a public service obligation that can be prescribed, there are conditions for the safe use of drones which have not been prescribed by the existing law so far, there is that companies dealing with airports, instead of the MUP, can also use the security of the security agency to carry out safety checks on passengers and luggage, and the MUP itself would then supervise or one type of verification of people who would carry out those inspections. There is the introduction of non-compliance offences under the orders and directives of the Civil Aviation Agency. We've also introduced only sanctioning, we're already sanctioning the attempted entry of cold or firearms or objects that resemble them into the plane. There's a lot of it, mostly. The draft law itself has been delivered to the European Commission and it does not require the provision of specific funds in the state budget. You've received documentation that makes more clear what I said. And I would eventually refer to the amendment that has been sent to us by our parent committee on maritime, transport and connections required in Article 83 of the amendment, and I can immediately say that, on behalf of the legislator, we accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76865	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. We have two clubs registered for discussion. First of all, the SDP club in turn and respected representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76866	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, as we have seen in the introduction of this legislative proposal, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is harmonised with EU legislation and a statement of compliance with the acquis of the EU and the legal acts of the Council of Europe has also been submitted. I must commend this time the shifts we see in the adoption of the Air Transport Act, which was passed two years ago, but also to appeal to the application of this law as soon as possible. However, it has not been two years since the adoption of this law, and we are already changing a large number of articles and harmonising with the European Directive, and two years ago we also received confirmation from the competent institutions that this law is harmonised. It would also point out that in the proposal for this law, amending and supplementing this law, there are ambiguous articles, so here is Article 12. talks about how the Agency for the Research of Accidents is functional and organisationally independent of all bodies responsible for civil aviation and of all legal and physical persons with which it could come into conflict of interest. However, it is already discussed in Article 107 that the Civil Aviation Agency will collect safety risk reports and ensure that relevant safety information is reported, collected, analysed, stored and distributed. I don't think that should be the case because the agency can thus be in conflict with the interest of this same civil aviation agency issuing licences, issuing airport registration, issuing aircraft navigation, conducting tests, issuing licences, and it may also happen in some situations that this agency is in conflict of interest. Also in the same article, I will quote: The Research Agency is conducting an investigation into events that threaten security if it considers it necessary after receiving a report from the Civil Aviation Agency on the event analysis. I don't think it can be that the Civil Aviation Agency will determine what this other Research Agency will do and what not. I think there might be a clear conflict of interest here in the same situation, and I think it should change that. The law also makes it clear that this accident research agency is fully independent in carrying out its activities as prescribed by the European Directive, and we know that they have insisted on an international auditory. Here I am asking you to try to correct it because I do not think this is going in the direction of the European Directive, but it is in total contrast and in this part does not comply with the European Union as we speak and as our goal is. I see that the committee has already discussed this and I hope that in the near future there will be a solution as is said about an agency that will be one for everyone else. Also in this proposal, the amendments and additions talk about how security jobs at airports will be taken over by private companies instead of the Interior Ministry. It's been two years, I think it's too short a deadline, but we can see that here's one amendment you've now accepted in the meantime because that's good. You have to be 100% sure that it's also a 36-month deadline when all of this can be fulfilled because we have two key problems here. It should be sufficient for both authorisation training and public tenders to be conducted, i.e. that they must be implemented and, of course, to be sure who will be in charge of all this together and who will pay for it together. Because if we didn't fail to do all this together in these two to three years to do it then again, there's some defamation in European circles, and it wouldn't be good for Croatia for sure. He would also express his dissatisfaction with the heretics of stopping flights on the Chicago-Zagreb route. It was supposed to be done a few weeks ago for the first time. Here's the whole public being aware of how it all went together. The first was a negative report by the USA, or the US Federal Air Traffic Administration, during... and with regard to possible association in business with Croatia Airlines which then unfortunately failed. [[You don't understand.]] In 2007, it was expected that, after the signing of the contract between US air carrier United Airlines and Croatian Croatia Airlines, a joint... Flights between the Republic of Croatia and the United States, but here we see that from now on there is nothing. [[You don't understand.]] We know what these reasons were, which did not happen for years and were the negative assessments that the US Federal Air Traffic Administration provided to the Croatian Air Traffic Administration after the supervision that the US air authorities are doing always before such transactions were concluded. But things change, they go forward, we sign this contract, and this time I commend all the efforts that the Ministry and the Air Traffic Administration are doing to improve aviation in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, however, there was also a long time to wait for a new problem that came up, which I mentioned earlier, which is to find out that as far as Chicago-Zagreb is concerned, how the owners of the AirPlus have tried with the help of some persons from the Croatian air traffic system allegedly to fool the American Air Administration. The flight that was scheduled to connect Chicago with Zagreb and Belgrade has tried to declare itself only as a flight to Zagreb and is now said by AirPlus that the reason for the cancellation this summer is essentially a weak interest in passengers. We all know that's not the only problem and that the flight stopped by the American Air Force. The reasons for the attempts of this manipulation are difficult to respond to but most likely they wanted to avoid the restrictions resulting from the US Air Administration's classification of Serbia as category 2 according to the airspace safety criterion and which did not allow direct flights from that country to the United States. As I noted earlier, for years, Croatia had such status, which led to Croatia's failure of the agreement with United Airlines. Unfortunately, I do not understand how there is and how it could have happened in Croatia that someone could have gotten such a flight, although it was clear to everyone in the aviation sector that it was a violation of the rules and that it was not good for the status and reputation of Croatia in the US Air Administration. I believe that this kind of unprofessional move damages this country and its citizens, but also the reputation we have in international circles, which, from day to day, the Ministry and the Air Traffic Administration create. It is time to look a little ahead and to make plans and strategies that are not their own purpose, which will be implemented within the deadlines set and which will, of course, benefit Croatian aviation so that such mistakes, problems, embezzlements, as we wish to call them, would not come into the future in international circles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76867	Thank you very much. And the next club is the HDZ club, respected representative Zivko Nenadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76868	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Air traffic is governed by four laws – Air Transport Act, the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport, the Law on Airports and the Law on draft Croatian air navigation control. Air traffic has also been regulated by sublegal regulations as well as by international contracts which are members of the Republic of Croatia. Although the Air Transport Act has been passed with previous consultations and in close cooperation with European air traffic experts, the law is nevertheless very general although it contains all the principle provisions on all relevant aspects of civil aviation. And as we've heard, four are the basic reasons why this change is necessary. First, alignment with the European Commission's remarks. Second, compliance with international commitments and practices. Third, compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. And fourth, termological synchronization and test improvement. I will list just a few of the most important reasons for these changes, because it really doesn't make sense to list them all again. Therefore, all activities carried out in the airspace of the Republic of Croatia must be carried out in accordance with all the annexes of the International Chicago Convention. Furthermore, the administrative acts of the Civil Aviation Agency are no longer subject to appeal to the ministry of jurisdiction but may be initiated by an administrative dispute. So that's the paper one. Furthermore, the agreement between the Ministry of Defence and the providers of air services shall regulate the operation of military aircraft for the purpose of protecting the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is possible for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish civil airports that can be used to conduct military air traffic. Airport operators may have an obligation to perform public service for certain economic activities if it is prescribed by the Ministry of Civil Aviation, of course, in accordance with the law, this Law and the regulations of the European Union. I would say that it is extremely important, and so far it has not been regulated by law lays down the conditions for the safe use of drones, and for the conditions that must be met by persons involved in the management of those aircraft. It also foresees the possibility of the integration of airspaces into one functional bloc, in accordance with European EU regulations. In particular, I would like to point out one legislative amendment that every passenger in Croatian airports will notice, of course, when it is in application of that provision after a few years, which is that the employees of the MUP will no longer carry out security and safety checks on passengers and luggage. This would be carried out in future by specialised security houses with which an airport operator would conclude a contract. Although checking the likeness of persons to carry out security checks would be performed by police officers. Here's what I'd say most importantly, I won't list others. And final. The adoption of this Act allows for the continued harmonisation and implementation of the standards provided for in international agreements binding on the Republic of Croatia and the application of the acquis of the European Union. And the HDZ club will certainly support these proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76869	Thank you very much. And there's another individual debate. Honorable representative of Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76870	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, before us, of course, the amendments and the amendments to the law in the opinion of the Secretary of State who, just in his opening statement, said that the previous law that we are amending with these provisions was general, so that now the Commission finds itself, i.e. the inspection that was last year in the fifth and sixth months on the basis of this finding, and the European Commission, there has been a change and amendment of this Law. I'm not going to be mean because that's not how it works, so let's say that we still have to agree on that law. Of course, it will never be fully in line with the acquis of the European Union. But in any case, that monitoring that follows us will probably lead to more changes and additions to this law. I would only concentrate on that the law was general, so probably now that these amendments have been made and the additions that law will be perhaps more precise than it has been so far. Is that right? First of all, I always doubt that the law which has a provision in it, which states that by implementing the provisions of this Act does not require the provision of special funds in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. I think that, when such a remark stands in any law with that law, something is wrong. Because if it doesn't cost anything, then why do we do it and change it? If these changes and additions are also going towards not being generalized but to be more precise. However, he is not so precise in his final work, since Article 142 contains a series of rules adopted by the minister. According to the fact that all of these are read, this whole series of regulations that the minister has to regulate remains that the law is still not, that it is still too general when all these things he makes must stand especially in special rules or special regulations. Well, I'll just read two. For example, on the content and manner of keeping an aircraft staff register and conditions, the way in which the issue, renewal and extension of authorisations and authorisation of aircraft personnel, etc. etc. The conditions for issuing an operational licence shall be laid down by a special Regulation by the Minister. Even the time and time of flight. And that brings the minister, not the law. Now, come on, I understand that what's variable is so let the minister bring it. But tell me about the content and manner of keeping the register, the conditions for enrolling and erasing aircraft from the register, and the signs of state and registration marks of the aircraft must be brought by the minister. Could that have been in the law? It is known to be a Croatian flag, the state of membership will not change that. Content and method of keeping the register, conditions for enrolling and deleting aircraft. That should be done by that agency, not by the minister. So the law could, however, more precisely determine the content of this law without still being... as it is now, and unfortunately if all of this the Minister must, that I do not list all of the things that the minister must bring, I will not say what the Minister of Interior must yet bring, with the agreement of the Minister, or what the Minister of Health must bring with the agreement of the Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there are too many of these general things in this law that must then be regulated by someone else, and it doesn't seem to me to be the Air Traffic Act and with the final bill of law to be one solid document by which we'll all be safe. That's the first thing. Another thing, as my colleague said in this law in two years' time, the day of entry into force is that after two years we are no longer on the entrance to the plane, or when we travel somewhere not to be examined and the safety of the airport does not keep passengers, and luggage by hand, does not work by the police of the Republic of Croatia as we are used to them, but that then they should do security companies. So the security companies that are like us are, which then airports should get in the public tender, which should then be the cheapest, which should then be the cheapest means that they pay their people poorly, because that's where they first talk about the work of people, and not some other work of technical means, so if they're poorly paid, then I don't know exactly how much they're going to be educated, and of course for that extra education, if that's how it has to be by the laws of the EU, for that extra education two years as it's supposed to be for that transfer, so I'd be begging that at least it's three years, or if it's impossible to do it up to 5 years to try and we ourselves as passengers to get used to some other model on board. There's a series of things, so I'm, uh, here's what I'm gonna say in public, I don't know who loves the police, it's common that the police don't like each other, but when I get on a plane and when. When I get on a plane, when a cop examines me and my hand luggage and me personally or the passengers before me, I'm kind of sure it's done quality and it's done professionally and that that X-ray he picked up is clearly really professional, as much as we all think the police are like this or like this. I'm sure of that amount of security, after those two years, I'll have a hard time getting a hold of it when some other service is doing it that's gonna have to win the airports. So here I think there are a number of things about the education of these new people who are going to do it, count that there are also passengers who are both male and female, that should have those who should, if this is the case, if it keeps ringing, to go to some other room and then have a male and female examination of the female, so it seems to me that this law, or this transition from the police to the guards, should be very, very, very careful, for safety reasons, not some others, because for the education of such people, I'm sure it takes a lot more time, despite their education being controlled by the police, but it seems to me that this is an important change in this law that should be taken into account for one longer years than it is just two years. So it's a second grudge, or a recommendation if that's possible. It's the third one around the agency. Security Agency and this other agency, which is the main agency. Maybe it's to specify this Security Agency that, as it reads here, it's not just an agency that's going to be a warehouse and that's going to record accidents, plane accidents, and that's going to store it somewhere and take care of it and have a register of such accidents. Perhaps we should clarify what is the job of this first, major agency, and what are the competencies of this other agency. Is it, in addition to establishing the causes of the accident, which with these causes to whom it goes, to the court, who is then guilty, who determines it, this agency or this first agency that has some kind of major word here? I think these things should be made more clear in this law. And please, finally, only somewhere in Article 58 of Article 108 is changed and said, so in its subparagraph 2 says each person should voluntarily inform the Agency and the Research Agency of all events he considers to be a real or potential security hazard. What, the safety of what? Air traffic, it's missing somewhere that, for safety, general security, somehow lacks these things, there's a lot like this unspeakable in that law, so maybe you should read it again and say exactly what I need as a person when I see something security that I report or uncertainty. Here I am asking you to agree a little bit if it is possible for this bill to be more quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76871	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, final word and Secretary of State Daniel Milet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76872	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's the thinking of Assembly attorney Habek and Denone being overlapped here somewhere, so now I'm going to answer all the questions, unconceived or asked, maybe not in order. In practice, it is the largest number of European airports that security guards are the ones who control passengers, I say the largest number, because I can't say 100% that they're all, but we haven't found any airports where the Ministry of the Interior of the country is working to control and review passengers to the full extent at the airport. As far as this proposal is concerned, that from 24 months to 36 months, the period when the airport of MUP will be replaced by the security guards, I have already said in the beginning that it has been accepted, because it is the amendment of our parent council committee. When it comes to public tenders, it does not mean in the public tender that what is cheapest goes, but depending on the criteria, what is most suitable for the legal entity concerned, depends on how the criteria are set, it passes, not necessarily the cheapest. Besides, I think it's done, that the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act are still going that way. You say the law doesn't cost anything. It is true, not that it costs nothing, but it still brings savings, because the resources of the interior ministry that are now scattered around our airports will be free. So we could put here more to go in plus, not minus right. When it comes to two agencies, and now that their authorities are not very clear, unfortunately they do not agree with you, they are clearly highlighted and their independence is not at all questionable because the European Commission has insisted on independence and the European Commission is verifying our legal regulations and the practice of how independent these agencies are. And what they co-operate with each other, they must cooperate with each other, but this cooperation must not and cannot be characterised as any overlapping of powers, either as an influence, or as an influence on the independence of any of them. ... 2009 is a valid law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Laws change, EU directives are passed year after year. We are obliged to adapt simply to directives, which means raising the quality of air security over Croatia. And if necessary, we will change the law every 6 months if it will contribute to the safety of the Croatian air sky. And lastly, two weeks ago, I was in Brussels at the Transport and Energy Subcommittee, where we received a lot of commendation from the European Commission about the way we implement European directives and regulations in our legislation, that is, our regulations and air traffic. Perhaps even to the end, when the mention of "Croatia Airlines" flights and their filling is no longer defined by a decree but determined by the market. The market is which determines where to fly and where to fly, and of course the market plays a role in the management of assisted employees who are aware of the current criteria in the sector, i.e. in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76873	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate and we will vote on this final draft of the law when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76874	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Transport Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 837. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by a representative of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 102 votes in favour, nothing abstention and one against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76875	The next item is the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA Programme – Component of Assistance in Transition and Strengthening Institutions for 2010, emergency procedure with first and second reading, P.Z. No. 841 The proposer of this proposal is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. And on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted this legislative proposal to be discussed in an urgent procedure. The emergency procedure combines first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and their reports were received at this session. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? Dear State Secretary of the Central State Office for the Development Strategy and Coordination of EU Funds, Hrvoje Dolenec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs. Here we are with the fourth proposal of the Law to confirm the 2010 financing agreement. ... from the first component of the IPA or as it is called in the full name to assist transition and strengthen institutions for 2010. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the 2010 programming, 13 projects to be funded under this programme are selected today... The European Commission adopted the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA programme for this component for annual alocation, i.e. financial allocation for 2010. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The text of the Finance Agreement was delivered to the Croatian party during the spring of this year and in 7 April 2011 in Zagreb when Mr Barroso visited Croatia, this financing agreement was signed. The financing agreement is worth all 56.7m euros or 419.5m kuna of which 38.6m euros or 285.8m kuna is the value of the funds coming from the EU budget, and the rest of the 18m euros or 133.6m kuna is provided in the budgets of the body of the users of these projects. What is important I have already mentioned is that it is 11 projects that will be financed and a series of bodies that will benefit from these funds just to confirm and implement projects that are in line with the commitments undertaken during the Croatian accession negotiations and harmonisation of legislation, and to strengthen the capacity of these institutions to implement some of the obligations that Croatia has through the takeover of legal gains. I'll list only briefly the bodies that have received these programmes that provide co-financing funds. So it is the Ministry of Justice, the Office of Association, the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which is the first time a little larger demining project in war-affected areas, especially in areas that will have the opportunity to implement projects from the second component of IPA, so to provide them with the space. The State Geodetic Administration is there, the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Fisheries, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. There are also several instruments that allow Croatia to participate in Union programmes and agencies. Therefore, part of the membership fee is paid that Croatia can also participate in these programmes and extend its opportunities to use EU funds, while at the same time also a flexible instrument for smaller projects that show their urgent and priority during operation, i.e. during this use of these funds from this financial year. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76877	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and we're going to the clubs. The first registered club is the HNS-HSU club, the respected representative Zlatko Koračević on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. At the beginning of the HNS-HSU club, it will support this Law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission. The amount is 38.62m euros. We have taken the obligation to negotiate this amount within 2 years of the date of conclusion of this Agreement and we must spend the funds within two years of the date of the contract with the possibility of seeking a prolongate. The area covered by this agreement is also listed in the title of assistance in the transition and strengthening of institutions. It is known that for each year we contract, so we have IPA 1 from 2007, 2008, and this 2010 is total with this 151m-euro framework, that the 2007 IPA is one of the best-used programmes, 92.19 usage, which is still at the stage of implementation where this utilisation is at 45% or 2009 which is at the beginning of only 0.41%). But what we want to especially stress is clear for understanding, IPA 1 is solely in the function of strengthening institutions. In strengthening capabilities and institutional and educational in the use of today's pre-accession funds, structural and cohesion funds when we join the EU. And about these are the programmes from which, as a rule, are financed, not in general, but almost always by foreign consultants whose support is being strengthened, and from this we read the relatively good use of especially the 2007 IPAs. However, how much have we been prepared in general and overall? And when we at the HNS and HSU club say that we're not prepared to use these funds badly, that the funds are used in a small percentage, then usually the corrections of the incorrect allegations go on, then they usually gnaw on us. But the fact is, we're not prepared. And if we weren't prepared here are a few arguments. IPA 3a traffic, only 9.83% contracted. Total available in 2007-2011. 96.7m euros have so far been used by only 9.5m euros. Environmental protection 18.28%. Regional competitiveness 24.7%. Human resources 38.93% and then comes the champion of champions in the use of the possible, which is the agricultural pre-accession IPARD 9.86. Until two months ago, 6.9. And what's tragic about M Plus 3 rules, and that fellow Schucker knows and a large number of MPs know that we have a commitment within three years of signing, we have an obligation to negotiate with the possibility of normal kindness of the European Commission to extend that deadline to us and now I am glad to hear that we are in the process. But for us specifically on transport, environmental protection, regional competitiveness and IPARD, if we fail to get an extension, we are down by 2007 and 2008 since 2008 is about 80 million euros at the end. On the IPARD farm, we are already down 20m euros today, if the commission does not grant us an extension of use from the bloc from which we have been made available for 2007. The fact that we do not have enough people to write projects to withdraw money from the EU. Despite my strong efforts and here I am taking the opportunity to praise and especially highlight and praise the people's efforts and the Central State Office for the Development Strategy and Coordination of Funds and the Central Finance Agency and several individuals by the ministries who have been delegated as managing body for certain operational programmes, but the system does not work. That the system is not working enough is to see only the observations on certain operational programmes that move from the need to support the organisation of governance and supervision and the evaluation of structural bodies in the Republic of Croatia, so that there are difficulties in drawing up tender documentation, the need to supplement the documentation, needs to increase the number of employees and strengthen the professional profile, problems in finding additional staff, so there is a question of the dynamics of absorption in 2011 or the ability to meet MPUS 3 rules from the 2008 budget, to a very serious problem, a very serious problem we want to stress specifically, and this is only 9.83% for the operational program of transport, an insufficient number of mature and quality prepared projects by potential users, a lack of educated and enough expert teams to prepare and implement the project. It's not my personal remark, I'm afraid I'm reading it from a coordination report that I can't read which coordination, some coordination. But it's a serious problem, it's a serious problem, and it's time to wake up. I repeat, despite these people who work as hard as possible, but according to the ministries, we simply have people who can't do their job or do it irresponsiblely. After four years of using money, we find that we do not have enough mature projects at the Ministry of Transport, hello. So what's the added value of that ministry in that operational program? What's the added value? I'm reading a report going to the government. I'm reading the report, and you know who wrote it, and you know the problem very well. I know it's your duty to ease something, and you're aware it's standing and I'm speaking and it's true. For example, the paying agency, 67 municipalities and cities, submitted funding requests to measure 301. Overruled almost everyone, 13 were approved but as approved, in a way that they were told below the table to change the form that was for public procurement, which people had on the Internet when they applied because this form was not good but it was good for the one from the 3 months. On the basis of which the 13 units of local administration were selected and in progress, after the completion of the tender, they were given the opportunity to change all of this. How or why these others didn't get it, why. And these people are doing their job with responsibility at the agency? It is also known that we constantly repeat this in the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired that it is necessary to include and train people, people who know languages, people who have knowledge and knowledge that they write projects that will pass, and not to bribe ourselves, as is done at the Ministry of Agriculture's Ministry of Payment, whose use is below 10% in the area of agriculture where the funds are desperately needed, these people need funds. Finally, we at the club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian party of pensioners will support this bill. We warn of problems that are evident, regardless of the willingness and will and the ability to embellish the reality that is really bad, the figures talk about it, the use of it, the experience of people in the county. And again, we propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that in agreement with the European Commission, we find a way to make use of the part, and it is evident that we will have the unused part of the pre-accession programme, that the unused part of the funds is directed towards municipalities and cities by the development index, which is still just a letter on paper. It has not yet received its full application in practice and the Regional Development Act and the Regional Development Strategy, to enable people in municipalities and cities to prepare for something that will have opportunities since 2013, the second half of 2013. This is not about who's smarter than who's more capable of being able and ready to use something we need and something we finally have the right to do, especially with the position of responsibility, whether when we join the European Union we will be a net payer or a net recipient. I'm afraid of this, not that I'm afraid, but I'm almost certain that according to this, if the relationship to this project doesn't change according to these programs, I'm sure we'll be a net payer, not a net recipient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76879	Thank you very much. The second club is the HDZ Club... The correction, the correction, I apologize, has a respected representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76880	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Koračević, I don't know which time since we've been here in the Parliament we've been correcting the ministries don't do projects, so we know exactly who's doing this. The second thing, when you were discussing pre-accession funds, you were having such a disastrous discussion that it would eventually turn out that Croatia gradually used the most funds from pre-accession funds, and that was eventually recognised by the president of your club the other day. It's a simple fact and therefore look, don't blur things out with this debate. However, local self-government units must simply be aware that no one will give them money, that they must apply projects according to the operational programme, and that is the fact and that is the truth, and these are all other political philosophies.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76881	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Koračević.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76882	This Regulation shall enter My colleague Shuker was correcting something I didn't say, aware that in the Operational Programme Transport exactly the projects of the Ministry of Transport were nominated for use, not from the County of Varazdinska, but through the Ministry, and you know very well that for all the funds from pre-accession programmes they nominated ministries, not municipalities and cities. The municipalities and cities know how to do it, and they do it, so make sure they do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76883	Okay. The first one was more of a replica than a correction of an incorrect quote, this second one is somewhere... /The noise in the hall./... We now end up at the HDZ club, the respected representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76884	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club discussed the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union concerning the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA-Component of Assistance in Transition and Strengthening Institutions for 2010, with the final proposal of the law and will support its adoption. The European Union's assistance under the IPA Programme -Component Assistance in Transition and Strengthening of Institutions for 2010 is aimed at helping meet the remaining needs of membership commitments in line with the priorities defined by the multiannual indicative planning document 2009-2011 for Croatia, according to the criteria of political criteria, economic criteria, the ability to assume obligations from membership and the support programme. The financing agreement therefore regulates the conditions necessary for the delivery of aid to the European Union, the rules and procedures relating to the payment of this aid and the conditions under which it will be managed. For financial management operations, we must say well-organised National Fund of the Ministry of Finance, which acts as a treasurer for the reception of European Union funds, the approval of funds to operational professions or end-users and financial control of the funds spent. It is important that the agreement enters into force as soon as possible so that the implementation of the projects to be financed by this agreement can be launched. It should be pointed out that 13 projects totalling 38 million 623 thousand 458 euros in the fiscal year 2012, so a total of 354 million 993,539 kuna, of which 241 million 889 thousand 532 kuna will be financed from the European Union. While 113 million 104 thousand and 7 kuna will be allocated from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. In the fiscal year 2013, a total of 64 million 462 thousand 303 kuna should be allocated to the implementation of the agreement, from which 43 million 924 thousand 57 kuna will be financed from the IPA, from the European Union, while 20 million 538 thousand 246 kuna will be allocated from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Of the 13 projects, I would especially like to highlight the Mine Action Programme in war-affected areas where IPA contributes 3m euros. Our national contribution a million kunas. So a total of 4 million euros. And it is important to point out that the project aims to create, therefore, a safe environment and set up security conditions for sustainable return and economic development in the war affected areas, by carrying out demining operations in Osijek-Baranja County and Vukovar-Srijem. The project will therefore be implemented through a direct grant agreement with the Croatian Mine Action Centre of 4m euros on the basis of implementing rules with a financial provision. As under the Croatian Law on humanitarian demining, HRCR is the only one authorised to assign humanitarian demining operations to demining companies after the public procurement procedure has been carried out. What is also important is that the signing of the Treaty of Direct Grants is foreseen, so in the fourth quarter of 2011. Also a project that would highlight is the implementation of an integrated land administration system where IPA contributes 5 million 480 thousand. It's a national contribution, so 720,000. It is a total of 6 million and 200 thousand euros, with the aim of supporting the State Geodetic Administration and the Ministry of Justice to accelerate the effectiveness of the business processes of the land-books and catastra system in the context of implementation, the integrated system of land administration, and the project will surely bring about an improvement of the investment climate, which is really important to us and also the rationalisation of the network of courts. Other projects are really important as a project to improve the administrative and institutional capacity of the Tax Administration, a project to strengthen the efficiency of the judiciary, a project to improve the enforcement system in the Republic of Croatia and other projects that will therefore contribute to reforms in the Croatian state administration and to accept and apply the legal gains of the European Union. Finally, in view of all of this, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support the adoption of the proposed emergency procedure law, because it is important that these projects be implemented as soon as possible and that we withdraw the funds we need for these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76885	Thank you very much. After two clubs, we have two individual discussions. Honorable representative Jerko Roshin is first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So here is a proposal for a law on the practical confirmation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission regarding the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA – Component of Assistance in Transition and Strengthening Institutions for 2010 and it can cause some debate and which is a good basis for a particular political competition and bidding. However, there is nothing questionable about this law for me. He's welcome. We can discuss some of the other elements relating to the European Union, pre-accession funds and other funds that will come. And of course it's a shame not to take advantage of what's at our disposal so it doesn't take advantage. Is this a question of sufficient education at the level of units of local self-government that have not registered with certain programmes in order to provide these funds, this assistance, which is primarily to adapt in transition to the European Union, etc. Unlike you usually think it's all the way to the government. Maybe until the government is in the sense that not everyone has been educated as much as they should to be able to use these access funds. But first of all, this applies to every interested person for who wants to get the money. However, this is also an opportunity to mention that if you talk about the European Union only through the prism of money, so the money then the European Union is not exactly the same, this issue of how valuable attention is because people all think that the European Union is suddenly one of the new tits that we will also start sucking more money and everything else together as soon as possible. However, the European Union is not and the European Union can only give in the context of what it can accept. Therefore, Croatia's obligations in the European Union are also not only financial but also about the discipline of behaviour towards the rules of a club's game as each club has. And that is why we adapt our legislation to the heritage of the European Union so that the harmonised can function better. The question of how much is known about use. Perhaps it's a shame not to know as much about use as you should know. But there are a lot of people who know about it. There's a lot of people who know about it, like there are some who've left, and they thought it was someone else's concern. In any case, the European Union is not just pre-accession funds and other funds, but of course it is. I cannot forget the opinion of one member of the European Parliament, a representative of Germany who said in Dubrovnik at a joint meeting, our last joint meeting of the parliamentary committees of the European Union and of the Croatian Parliament when in the debates that began to be held for these European funds, he said if the European Union was only interested in the use of pre-accession or later other funds, then perhaps the European Union does not care so much that Croatia becomes a member of the European Union if this would be an exclusive motive. That is why I propose that, in our discussions, not in the Parliament, but in general, media so much we do not affirm the issue of the European Union because then it really looks like we are only coming for certain material interests, and all European Union countries have equal needs, equal material interests. And we know that in such a difficult material situation as Greece, the question at all is that these things can be developed, that the European Union has its own problems that solve or do not even arise or are in a certain way going back, if we are talking about Schengen and the attempt of Denmark to take a look at the borders, in a different way than it was before, and to set at least one amount or occasional amount of control at some border crossings with countries that have equally developed civilizationally reached certain levels as they have been, it is important to say themselves that when using these funds, at least from a display that is practically 70% for certain programmes provided by the European Union, i.e. the IPA programme 30 % secures the Republic of Croatia, for all those programmes for which they are so welcome. and we also know that through all this together, through this law we are talking about the period 2010 which was because, because it is actually based on one agreement, until 2013 when we should become members of the European Union on 1 June as indicated, and if we start using another category of funds, or another category of financial relations with the European Union, believing that the use of these European funds is in the mutual interest of us in the developmental sense, but also of the European Union in order to achieve those standards in Croatia that the European Union advocates, and which in a certain way, is conditional, if someone is going to socialise with it in the future. So in the recapitulation he would say that this is a well-intentioned law that practically regulates something that already exists, it lists some figures, of course, in a political debate in the Assembly there is always a chance to say something and what is beyond the measure of what we are talking about under some law, but suma sumarum this is just something to be welcomed, voted on and so go on in life, and we try to make sure that what is at our disposal and could go untapped, the better we take advantage of. It's up to each of us, the state to help us, and to us to use what is at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76887	I thank Mr. Representative. And the last individual debate, the esteemed representative of Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76888	Here's a very well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. In December 2010, the European Commission adopted a national programme for the Republic of Croatia, under the IPA programme, to assist in the transition and strengthening of institutions for 2010, aimed at helping to meet the remaining needs for membership commitments, in line with the priority sides defined by the multiannual indicative planning document for the Republic of Croatia for 2009, which are the political criteria, economic criteria, the ability to assume obligations from membership, and support programmes. And in order to implement this programme, it is necessary for the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, the European Commission, to conclude a financing agreement that the Republic of Croatia practically expresses its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract, but it also makes this agreement a basis for the free use of the financial means provided. This Agreement therefore lays down the conditions necessary for the delivery of assistance to the European Union, rules and procedures, as well as the conditions under which such assistance will be managed. I will remind myself that IPA is an instrument of pre-accession assistance, meaning for the period 2007 to 2013 which replaced CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD programmes, established by the Council of the European Union regulation, and its financial value for the seven-year period and for all beneficiary countries stood at 11.5 billion euros. The main objectives of this programme are to assist candidate countries and potential candidate countries, in harmonising national legislation, and to implement the acquis of the European Union, and to prepare for the use of structural and cohesion funds. I will also remind you that the Republic of Croatia is a beneficiary of all components of the IPA programme until the moment of entry into the European Union, and for this the amount of EUR 589.9 million is secured. For 2010, so for this component 419.5 million kuna is secured, the gift is 285.9 million kuna, the rest in state bodies that will implement the running projects. In the fiscal 2012 implementation of the agreement, a total of €354.9 million should be allocated, of which 241.9 will be financed from IPA and 113.1 from the state budget. In 2013 it is also necessary to provide an additional 64.5 million kuna, of which the IPA component is 43.9 million. Here through these strategic priority axes, we've already heard 13 projects are IPA's national programme. The projects have been selected in the light of their compliance with the accession partnership, the Strategic Document on Enlargement and the Progress Report, but have also been assessed according to the order of assistance in the sector in question, the ability of the institution of potential beneficiaries to implement, and the maturity of the project proposals. From the projects, I want these 13 projects to highlight the demining programme in war-affected areas worth 4m euros, the national contribution is a million, and IPA contributes 3m euros. Why do I want to point that out? This is because it's been since '91. To date, in the Republic of Croatia, a thousand 935 people were killed in mine incidents, of which 501 people died, and in 2010 7 people died in 6 mine incidents. Since we know that in the Republic of Croatia we still have about 800km of mine suspected space, and that we are still suffering meanings of both pyrotechnicians and civilians, and since we have an orderly system of humanitarian demining we have significant demining capacities, I expect that immediately after the entry into force of this Agreement a grant contract will be prepared for the Croatian Mine Action Centre. I also call on the Croatian Mine Action Centre to prepare projects in the area of Vukovar-Srijem and Osijek-Baranja County that are intended for these funds, to make these projects, means that the funds would not wait, because there are no reasons why not to withdraw these funds in such a way as to ensure the goal that is imagined, means that as soon as possible security conditions are ensured and for a sustainable return, but even more so those in the development function of these two counties. I would like to point out here that, so far, the demining has totalled $3.4 billion, and little less than 500 million are donation funds, and that the demining donations are in decline, and that is why it is necessary to try to withdraw as much funding from the European funds for this area as possible. What things here somehow... , well, colleagues Koračević are always some deadlines, reports of use, we don't often agree with them, that is, it creates always a confusion of what, the deadlines in which we do something or don't realize it, so I would like to mention here that the deadline for the conclusion of the agreement is the end of 2011, that the deadline for the negotiation of these projects is stated, means two years from the date of the conclusion of the contract, and for the implementation of two years from the date of the contract, so we have one longer period and only then will be seen by the effects of the withdrawal of the funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Obviously, fellow Koračević, and those who do not want to see the results, do not take good account of the agreed deadlines that form an integral part of each agreement and therefore we have such opposite views regarding the withdrawal of funds. Of course, there is still room for better functioning because we must do this certainly because Croatia will practically participate on a daily basis in the creation of a common European policy and therefore we must be prepared, or even more ready than today, but this component also contributes to this as well as all those programmes that have been done so far by both CARDS and PHARE and ISPA and SAPARD and IPA complete. I will therefore support this proposal of the Act on the signing of the Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76889	Thank you very much. This debate and I conclude the debate on this final draft of the law, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76890	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the National Programme for Croatia under the IPA programme – a component of transition assistance and strengthening institutions for 2010. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 841. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law that I have read. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 103 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76891	We are still going to discuss one item on the agenda today, and this is this next eighth in the consolidated agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the compensation of the workers of the company of Salonit d.d. in Vranjic bankruptcy, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 847 The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. And on the occasion of the agenda, we agreed to discuss this proposal in an emergency procedure. So this emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, and their reports were received at the session. On behalf of the promoter, an additional explanation will be given by the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship Ivan Bubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. This law regulates the compensation of workers who result from a complete ban on the placing on the market and use of asbestos fibers which took place by adopting a list of dangerous chemicals on 14 February 2006 by the Ministry of Health as well as products containing asbestos fibers left without a job in the company Salonit d.d. in the bankruptcy of Vranjic, the procedure and body responsible for the resolution of compensation claims and the provision of funds for the payment of compensation claims by workers. In view of the fact that a package of laws adopted in 2007, individual laws have resolved issues relating to the exercise of the right to pension under special conditions, health supervision and diagnostics and the right to compensation for workers suffering from occupational illness, but not to issues related to the compensation of workers who, as a result of the ban on the use of asbestos, have lost their place of employment, and this bill addresses the remaining issue of compensation for workers and the loss of employment in the company of Salonit d.d. in Vranjic bankruptcy. This draft law shall take the obligation to pay compensation and shall require the competent authority of the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund to implement the compensation procedure and to pay from its means the compensation to be provided through the redistribution of funds in this year and the 2012 Financial Plan. The Fund will carry out a first-degree procedure at the request of workers, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will establish a Board of Appeals which will resolve complaints about the solutions adopted in the first instance. The amount of compensation per worker will be 219 thousand kuna and will be paid in a period of 2 years from the day of power of the solution in such a way as to pay 109 thousand and 500 kuna by the end of 2011 until the end of June 2012. 54 thousand 750 kuna and by the end of 2012 the remaining 54 thousand 750 kuna per worker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76893	Thank you. And will the committee's reporters take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate on this final proposal. We're going clubbing. First of all, the HDZ club, the respected representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here is the proposed Reimbursement Act for Salonit d.d. in the bankruptcy Vranjic continued to provide workers who during work in the Republic of Croatia were professionally exposed to asbestos. Under the professional exposure of asbestos, direct exposure to asbestos is considered to be due to the work with asbestos products as well as the indirect exposure to asbestos due to the work of a person who used asbestos in her production. The asbestos was usually used most from the late '70s to the early '90s. It was also popular as construction material used by almost all construction companies to cover roofs, either as a good thermal insulator or often when making facades or installing a pipe into a water system. Unfortunately, then, there was no public warning of asbestos damage caused by lung cancer and a series of other respiratory diseases. Although the negative impact of asbestos on health was also known to the ancient Egyptians who wrapped Pharaoh's mummies in asbestos because of the longevity and old Romans whose recommendation was never to buy slaves who worked with asbestos, with the reason that young people died often and of these diseases in the last 16 years in Croatia were more than 400 people, especially in Vranjica in Salonita and PLOBEST. EU production and use of asbestos is prohibited and is trying as a standard to reach zero particles in the air. Croatia's asbestos factories closed and rescheduled asbestos sources especially at the Salonite factory as well as other sources of possible pollution. So the production of asbestos is prohibited with Slovenia and Croatia. Since 14 February 2006, it is completely prohibited to put on the market or use asbestos fibers and since then problems have started to be solved for workers professionally exposed to asbestos. In 2007, laws have been passed, the Law on the acquisition of the right to the age pension of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos and the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. These laws address issues for the exercise of age pension rights under more favourable conditions, health supervision and diagnostics, and the right to compensation for workers suffering from occupational illness due to asbestos exposure. This bill addresses the problem of compensation for workers who have lost their jobs due to the ban on the use of asbestos. As a result of the ban on working for asbestos fibers, it became necessary for 170 employees of the company "Solonit" d.d. in Vranjic's bankruptcy, finds a solution to the payment of the corresponding damages. The government of the Republic of Croatia, modelled by EU Member States using asbestos in the technological process, will deprive workers who have lost their jobs since 14 February 2006 when the work and use of asbestos fibers has been completely forgotten in Croatia. Workers found in the working relationship of the company "Salonit" d.d. in Vranjic's bankruptcy from 14 February 2006, it will be paid for compensation in two years and by the end of 2011, each worker of 109 thousand and 500 kuna by the end of June 2012. 54 thousand 750 kuna and by the end of 2012 54 thousand 750 kuna in the name of job damage. The total amount each worker will receive is 219 thousand kuna. These funds have already been provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund by the Ministry of Energy Efficiency through the recruitment of workers in recovery, so no additional budget resources are required. In view of the fact that this law solves the problems of the company's employees, Salonit d.d. The Vranjic Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76895	Thank you very much. Next up is SDP's respected representative, Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76896	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation on behalf of the SDP Club on this proposal of the Law on the Compensation of Workers of the company "Solonit" d.d. I'd like to ask a few questions in Vranjic's bankruptcy. And that's what this law and matter it covers has to do with environmental protection policy and energy efficiency? Does it fund environmental protection and energy efficiency? I will now take this opportunity to read the parts of Article 12 relating to the source and resources financed by the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which is, of course, the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund Act, means in paragraph 1: "The funds for financing environmental protection and energy efficiency under this law are provided from the dedicated income of the environmental polluters fund, environmental charges, environmental charges, environmental charges for environmental burdens, special environmental benefits for motor-powered vehicles". The same law also states in Article 19 concerning the use of funds to "funds used for the following purposes: protection and conservation and improvement of quality of air, soil, water and sea and the mitigation of climate change and protection of ozone envelopes, recovery of waste dumps, incentives, avoidance and reduction of waste generation, waste treatment, exploitation of valuable waste resources, promotion of cleaner production or avoidance and reduction of waste generation and emissions in the production process, protection and conservation of biological and landscape diversity, implementation of national energy programmes, the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources, the promotion of sustainable building systems, the promotion of clean transport, the promotion of sustainable use of natural goods, the promotion of sustainable development of rural space, the promotion of sustainable economic activities and sustainable economic development, the promotion of the system of environmental information, monitoring and evaluation of environmental conditions, and the implementation of research activities, including the development of research and development of activities". The same law in Article 20(1) states: "The funds of the fund are granted to legal and physical persons, the beneficiaries of the funds to finance the purposes set out in Article 19 of this Act through loans, subsidies, aid, grants on the basis of a public tender published by the Fund". Why am I saying all this? Because this law or the compensation of Salonite workers is planned to be financed from the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency, and it is unnecessary to say on the basis of this text of the law itself that this law does not provide for funding for such purposes and for such purposes. It should be recalled that in the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund, as you have just had the opportunity to hear, no money is being poured into the property of the company "Solonit" d.d., the company that has been in bankruptcy since 21.6.2004, the company owned by Joze Curkovic, who was actually a longtime client of HDZ, which has since 2005 been unreachable to the Croatian repressive apparatus because of its dual citizenship and the Croatian authorities' unwillingness to process it. The answer to all these questions I asked earlier was no. So these funds aren't planned to finance this purpose and these funds don't come from a purpose that would be from a source that would be suitable for this purpose. In other words, this law has absolutely nothing to do with environmental protection and energy efficiency. In turn, this law violates the provisions of the Fund Act and it is scandalous that the government proposes laws that violate laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Fund Act is more than clear on what is being filled, and on what these extra budget funds or parafiscal imposings may be spent on. Nowhere does it say that these funds are to be used as an instrument of social policy, and this law is the law of the domain of social policy. What does that show? This shows that despite investigations and proceedings conducted against the former head of the fund, Vinko Mladneo, and in order to abuse the funds of the fund and the non-transparent spending of the money of this very rich fund, the government of Prime Minister Kosor has learned nothing and that the same policy of its predecessor and patron of Sanader's policy used by the fund's money as a party ATM and a pig's bank. This law is extremely controversial for a number of other reasons, and because of the unequal position in which this law puts former workers "Plobesta" and former but also current workers of Croatian shipyards who were just like the "Salonita" workers exposed to life-threatening asbestos. The proposer is trying to baptise the injustice by saying that this compensation is not compensation for the harmful exposure of asbestos but compensation for losing a job because of the ban on the use of asbestos production and transport in 2006. But I will remind you that in 2008 negotiations of the government and the union, the compensation of the Salonite workers amounted to 70,000 euros for the exposure to asbestos, not as a sort of severance. Although in the SDP club, we believe that all persons who are professionally exposed to asbestos who have had this accident that they have become sick of asbestos diseases because of their work, we find it inadmissible to discrimination between citizens and citizens of Croatia, whether they worked in Salonita, Plobest or in shipyards or if we accept it as an exact explanation that this is a compensation for the loss of employment of workers who have worked throughout the series and I would say to thousands of other companies whose workers and workers have been left out of work because of harmful and poor government decisions. And therefore, it is no wonder that a whole series of bitter e-mails have arrived in the SDP club, both former Plobest workers and other citizens and citizens who are sick because of the unprofessional exposure to asbestos, but also former Salonite workers who remind the government that the amount of 70,000 euros has been agreed with, and not 30,000 euros under this law. They also warn that the amount should have been paid by the end of 2009, and I now remind you that it is 2011 today. I would remind you that the Constitution guarantees the equality of all Croatian citizens and citizens before the law, and this law does not provide for a whole series of reasons. The following can be concluded, and especially given the fact that the government proposes this law a few months before the elections, there should be no genius to conclude that there is another law here to buy the money of all citizens and citizens of Croatia. I would also like to remind you of the fact that in the summer of 2008, the SDP Representatives Club launched one activity, i.e. it referred to the procedure of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission to determine the facts relating to the recovery, i.e. decontamination of asbestos waste from the Salonit d.d. circle. in a bankruptcy in which we also stressed in the field of research that the owner of Salonita Jozo Curkovic founded a new company of Novi Salonite after the company had come into bankruptcy just so that he should not charge the court's fines for which the Salonita court had ordered the workers precisely because they had been exposed to the adverse actions of the Salonita. In 2000 and 2004, the State Attorney's Office launched an investigation against Joza Curkovic and other suspects on the basis of two claims for abuse of the position and illegal wealth of 100 million kuna. The indictment became final in 2005 and since then the majority owner of Salonita has been on the run. Unfortunately, the government has not acted responsibly in this whole story. Although the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare announced the termination of production in Salonita by the end of 2004, they extended the deadline at the request of the Salonita until December 2005 when it was definitely prohibited to use and place on the market asbestos-containing products. The bankruptcy manager of the Salonitas, however, launched the opposite of the law to produce products containing crissilit in the Salonitas, which is unfortunately supported by trade unions. Production of asbestos products whose production has now been and has been banned by law despite protests by asbestos organisations, as well as other associations, media and opposition political parties in Salonita has continued for another two years. I would also remind myself of a fact that is also not respected by this bill, i.e. it is ignored, that according to the Convention on Safe Management of asbestos in Article 17, and Croatia has ratified this Convention, it is said that workers who are sick of asbestos and other diseases causing professional exposure to asbestos must not work on recovery procedures, and the state has violated this international convention in such a way that it has engaged these workers through the trade union to carry out this resolution and thus has shown how much it holds up to international contracts and agreements. I also remind you that the Environmental and Energy Efficiency Fund has also previously been funded means the salaries of these workers who have worked on the recovery procedures, which is also a direct violation of the Fund Act. Because of all this, we can conclude at the SDP club that this is about just another law that buys a particular electoral body. It is a demagogue law and could prove harmful to a large number of Croatian citizens and citizens who will not have the opportunity to exercise their rights that are also violated by professional and not professional exposure to asbestos.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76897	Thank you very much. We're going after the clubs. The HSS Club and the esteemed representative, Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. We at the Croatian Peasant Party Club are the position that workers should also be compensated for what we are talking about today in the company Salonit d.d. in bankruptcy in Vranjica, but we are also contacted by Plobest workers and we agree that we should open the debate on this matter and how informed I am the Ministry of Economy will talk to Plobest workers next week on this subject because they have been directly exposed to the influence of asbestos and today feel the consequences of their own health due to all these activities. In fact, the adoption of this law also falls within that category of promise. We at the HSS Club believe that the promises need to be carried out, and this promise that such a law will be passed is also the personal president of the government to the workers of the Salonite, it is also signed and we see the adoption of this law as the fulfillment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's promise which we think is good and that we should welcome. The fact is that these workers were brought into a difficult situation because even after the entry into force of a list of dangerous chemicals whose traffic is prohibited, and there is certainly asbestos or asbestos fibers, it happened that the "Salonita" workers had been exposed to these asbestos fibers in the context of production, regardless of the factory's bankruptcy since 21 June 2004. For this reason 170 employees of the company "Salonit d.d." Vranjic's bankruptcy certainly deserves adequate compensation. In accordance with this Act, it is envisaged that part of that compensation will be paid in 2011 and part of 2012. According to our calculation this year, the amount is around 20 million kuna, while another 16 million kuna should be paid in 2012. I must remind myself that as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, we have also passed a whole set of laws relating to workers who have been professionally exposed to asbestos and to the resolution of their rights, and this is about the Law on terms of obtaining the right to retirement of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos and the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. Therefore, there are regulated age pension rights under more favourable conditions, health supervision and diagnostics, and the right to compensation for workers suffering from occupational illness due to asbestos exposure. But there was no problem with the compensation of workers who lost their jobs due to the ban on the use of asbestos. What we would consider here in the HSS as speculative, i.e. in question is Article 2(2) and this is about the position from which these funds will be paid. In fact, we think that this provision, which will in fact in some ways in charge of the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund to pay 20 million kuna for the compensation of workers, will question the implementation of certain environmental protection and energy efficiency projects for which the Fund has called for tenders, announced the selection of those municipalities and cities that have received these funds. And I'm afraid it's neither wise nor just solution. So, everyone agrees that workers should be compensated. Everyone agrees that it was the government's promise to secure the money in the state budget. It is our view that this money should have been provided either by the Ministry of Economy or through a certain reserve of the Government or by redistributing certain funds. This way, by borrowing the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, we think that this will happen, that simply some projects that may have already started, which are in the realization phase due to the redistribution of funds from the fund's positions for these damages will be stopped and that municipalities and cities will not be able to realise it themselves, or they will not be able to recover it. Because we know that the fund finances these projects between 60 and 80 percent and that municipalities and cities with that money are very much counting. It is therefore our proposal to consider this Article 2(2) State Secretary once more at the Ministry of Economy and at the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because this year, it's a debt of 20 million kuna. Next year, there is a commitment of 16 million kuna, and we are afraid that there will indeed be some problems in fulfilling the commitments provided for by the Fund Act. I also want to remind you here that the data we received as parliamentary representatives, and regarding the diseases caused by asbestos and the situation, I have to say that it is really worrying, or extremely bad especially in some counties where other than these factories that we are talking about are "Salonite" in Vranjic and "Plobest" in Ploča also improve workers who worked in shipyards. And from the data we read from the Report of the Croatian Institute of Public Health, and finally we have data from 2009. We can see that the mortality data are caused by mesothelioma and asbestos. 443 people died during the period 2002-2009 in Croatia. The highest mortality rate was recorded in Primorje-Gorski County with 3.81 persons per 100,000 inhabitants, followed by Split-Dalmatia County with 3.1 persons, and Istria County with 2.67 people per 100,000 inhabitants. According to data on the number of occupational diseases caused by asbestos from 1990 to 2009, 487 persons were registered from the Split-Dalmatia County and 39.2% from Dubrovnik-Neretva County and 6% from the Primorje-Gorski County. The data that came to us from the register of workers suffering from asbestos-induced diseases suggests that the number of professional diseases is significantly different from Dubrovnik-Neretva County with multiple absolute numbers of professional diseases caused by asbestos and the highest rate of disease. And that's why we here at the HSS Club have also warned about the problem of "Plobest" workers because it's obvious that they actually feel the most difficult consequences today when it comes to improvements. Some of them also appeared, so in all the clubs of MPs, and I have to say that they are particularly earthquakeous, because they feel multiplely damaged because of the privatisation that the State Audit confirmed that in "Plobest" was implemented in a way that was not in line with the law until no one had ever informed them that asbestos was also harmful to the fact that they had a poor organisation of workers' health during these decades as they worked in "Plobest", that bankruptcy was also carried out in a very suspicious way, that they worked for three years and that they had not been paid for this work, that they had a problem with achieving their rights and that most of them are here to show that they would get the right to compensation and express regret what they felt forgotten in this process. I must say here, on behalf of the Committee on Environmental Protection, all members and members, that we, within the Committee, have encouraged the recovery to take place in the Plot area as well. And here we appeal once again to implement those measurements for the Plot area for which the Committee has reached several conclusions, and so far they have not been implemented and that it is simply for everyone to be treated equally in this process, which means that all areas that are polluted by asbestos as we have concluded should have the same priority and should be resolved, because this is the only way to actually prevent any adverse phenomena that might occur in the future. So here's what we've mentioned and what we've discussed at the HSS Club, and we've also touched on the questions of the damages settlement committee, which, to say today, received a little more than a thousand requests, of which 400 cases have been solved, so even half of the cases are still being processed, this is going relatively slowly, because a lot of these items are incomplete. Of these 400 items, half of the cases are solved positively, half of them are solved negatively, we believe that these resolution processes should be accelerated because unfortunately some workers are so, former workers are in such a bad condition that on their lives the sword hangs and the question is whether they will experience this compensation and will experience the pension that belongs to them, because daily they are actually waiting several hours for different reviews, therapy and, of course, they must not forget the mental pain they suffer, because their health conditions are getting worse every day, and, of course, their families are under certain pressure. We at the HSS Club welcome the government's decision, which, of course, carries out what is promised, I repeat, the Salonite workers deserve this compensation, and we believe that this compensation must be paid. We believe that there is a need to find space for Plobest workers from Plobest, to find a way to pay them compensation, and we believe that it is necessary to revise the decision in charge of the Environmental Protection Fund to pay for that compensation because such a decision will put into question the implementation of those projects that the fund needs to implement under the law, which are environmental protection and energy efficiency projects. I personally and many of my colleagues and colleagues have called on public institutions to act in the Curkovic case, because we know that he is a fugitive, and we certainly advocate that he be brought to justice. We also asked for supervision of the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings in Salonita, and in addition to these audit reports that we have, it would be interesting to study the Plobest case once again, I believe that there could be a lot of things, but what is important to say and repeat that there are no doubts, this Parliament has passed the law and has decided that for the recovery that was carried out in Vranjica, so in the factory itself and in the area of ants' coffee, it will be charged by the owners' funds, therefore the state cannot be damaged, for this reason that there is a clear legal regulation that these financial resources will be refunded. The fact is that the state had no choice but to approach the recovery by its own means, for the reason that it was already mentioned here, the owner was on the run and left the workers and the whole end at the mercy of his actions which were neither in accordance with the law nor in accordance with morals. So the club of the representatives of the HSS will support the adoption of this law, with of course a note that we expect these remarks that we have taken seriously, and to find adequate solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76899	Thank you very much. We have also reached the last registered club, club of HNS, HSU and respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76900	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I really thought that the problems of asbestos after my dealing with this shipbuilding problem and after the substitution process of all asbestos materials in shipbuilding, the non-absorbed material, after monitoring, after examining all the workers who were exposed, after establishing a professional disease of asbestos, would never have to deal with this topic again, and you know we can't say that in this process we should have learned from other external factors, we had to learn from ourselves, and from the processes we had in shipbuilding. So what we're talking about today shouldn't have happened is that we're a serious and responsible state. Here we have to figure out some things out, what we're talking about today is not the story of diagnosing a professional disease, it's not the story of solving a social health problem, it's not that story, I agree that the state of Croatia, therefore this government, and this Parliament that they should have passed laws to put people in retirement, to get what they have diagnosis, to get compensation for professional illness to stop working. It's a social health problem, and it's very justified. We have not talked about compensation in the Croatian Parliament since 2004. That was the last time we discussed the compensation of the pensioners and passed the law on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision. We don't have any decisions here, no court rulings, even though I think the damages address is correct. Why do I think that? Because for the start of production in bankruptcy, and this is the last production is the responsible state which at that time was a believer with 25 million kuna. So the address is correctly determined that the state must be compensated for stopping work. Finally, the initiative itself went with the blessing of the state, in 1997 a re-production was launched. We say there was no regulation. Oh, no, you don't. I have before me men my ratified convention from the state of front, from the former state of '89. which came into force on January 1, 1991, I have here on the table. We say we solved this problem with a list of harmful chemicals, before that with a list of poisons, 2005 and 2006. That's not true, it's simply not true, gentlemen. I've got another paper here called "The People's News" No. 92/93. Regulation on maximum levels of harmful substances in the atmosphere, working rooms and space and on biological limit values. So, the tag next to asbestos is CA1, and that's to those who know something about asbestos that means a first-rate carcinogenicity mark. Therefore, we cannot say that we did not know about the adverse impact of asbestos and cannot say that this state had no knowledge of it, but nevertheless it was allowed to launch production in 1997 and what is worst in bankruptcy in 2005 with the state as a believer was once again started production. Therefore, of course, I would like the Law on the Non-Aging of Crime in Conversion and Privatisation to come now to the inaccessible Mr Jozo Curkovic, who has dual citizenship, but that will not solve this problem. I mean, the address is correct, but the procedure doesn't seem to be right. With all due respect to all the workers who need to get this, I agree with the state budget, not the Energy Efficiency Fund, something here should have been resolved differently because we already see that this is a story that will be unending. Tomorrow, persons who have lost their jobs will appear as jobless victims for crime in conversion and privatisation. Will we have the same access? The reason is valid, it's somebody else's responsibility that he didn't stop the crime and people were out of a job. I think that here was the right path and the right legal path, that people were suing and that the state was going to prevent major damages to go out of court. Because there's really no basis here, there's no legal basis for going with compensation. Guys, let's not speak foreign languages, compensation is damages. The damage must be proven. Responsibilities for damage must be demonstrated. It's not hard to prove here, but the fact that it's not proven stands. Therefore, it is very questionable this legal path and I do not enter into trade between the government and the Croatian Union Association of Mr Ozren Matijasevic here is evident in the law that they have agreed even the opposite of the initial settings that different people get here is agreed to all get the same. There were certain criteria at the beginning of the negotiations, and as such I think we are going, to do a terrible precedent that can be dangerous in our parliamentary practice. That we're covering something that has no foothold in previous legal proceedings. I'm going back to the famous retirement benefits. The Constitutional Court’s decision was and found that pensioners were damaged from 1993 to 1998 and that the state was obliged to compensate for the damage. There's no court's decision here in that sense. So, of course, I don't want to blame the workers who have been promised 219 million kuna, but I have an obligation to say that this should be done in another way because it is evident that the responsibility of the state exists and that it should be done from other sources because indeed, the Energy Efficiency Fund is not an institution that solves these damages due to the responsibility of the Government. We can't get away from policy, justice, the interests of the workers, the interests of the associations this if a man stopped like that and looked realistically at this is really a situation from the twilight zone. I really want this story to end, but I don't want this story to open new and new stories. What I still want to say here is that it is safe to talk about damage claims due to professional asbestos disease will not stop and this procedure cannot be quickly completed as counterpart Petir said it would be good because a particle of asbestos can rest 10, 15 years in lung tissue, lung tissue and after 15 years in a certain condition of the organism, a certain weakness of the organism can begin to develop carcinogenic process. We never know when asbestos will occur, but of course, asbestos will not appear unless there are asbestos particles in the body, and that's exactly the size. It's not stories, it's facts, it's things that are famous if we want to know. What else does that mean? This means that after professional asbestos disease, damage claims for so-called ‘. "domicile asbestos." According to the International Labour Organisation Convention of '86. And since the country has ratified that convention and that we have later ratified it, it is an obligation that the clothes of the workers should not be carried home. You can't wear clothes at home. If this relationship exists and if one of the householders suffers from asbestos tomorrow, and this can be demonstrated by the biopsy that it is a precise asbestos fiber, the same employer may be subject to a compensatory request, and since the employer is not present, and production in bankruptcy has allowed and the state's compensation request will come to the state. So, I warn that we are starting, that this story here will not stop, that it will have more, that it will be a long, long process and that this asbestos and what should not have happened in Salonita Vranjic will follow us for a long time and for many years we will suffer the consequences of the use and the treatment of asbestos, or its addition to certain products. I don't think any motivation for profit can be the reason for this kind of damage to the health condition of workers and the population. Although I am deeply aware that too often workers themselves because of lack of work, because of high unemployment agree to very inhumane working conditions, which cannot be good. Of course their union representatives agree to that which is an even worse situation. Therefore, for principle reasons, it is hard for members of the HNS and HSU to raise their hands with joy for such a bill. We will leave our colleagues and colleagues at will to vote on their consciences, but I assure you, and I hope that I have given you additional arguments to think carefully about what we are doing because this can not be what we want to be closing and ending this story but may be the beginning of new cases and let's say new claims for the compensation of workers who have lost their jobs because of their working other basics, and then we will really have one big mess. Here's what I'm saying. I was hoping I'd never speak of asbestos again with all the knowledge I have of this disease and that dying young people in the tension of strength. But you never know what fate holds for you. I'm not happy that we're talking about this at all today because this is a terrible wound in society and as we've seen colleague Holly, but also colleague Mariana Petir, said this story is much wider than it looks like, and from this public health data you can see all the complexity of this asbestos story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76901	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. The first of the three reported is the respected Jerko Roshin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76902	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Often you get here in a parliamentary debate mentioning the state is this, the state is what, she didn't do when she was supposed to do it. So what state? And we are the state of the Parliament and the Parliament are the state. And thanks to the return to the assembly of colleagues Ingrid Antičević and Ivanka Roksandić because each of them took 0.6% of the value of one Assembly speaker, we rose here to a level close to 12% of the total present in the Croatian Parliament. Now as far as we're responsible for our business if it's a state, and we're all in each of our places so responsible for each other, then we're not as bad as we might seem to be in a bad way with regard to the stock that it is. This is certainly one of the most valuable topics, and I agree with all those who have so far said that the Salonita should have given attention long ago. But this does not mean that the government has now caught up with solutions or at least to make up for it, or at least to ease some of the troubles that the Salonites have had, that this government is now guilty of dealing with it and not those that have been dealing with it for decades, so not since Croatia was left alone but 80 years earlier, but has already begun to deal with this problem. Therefore, it is not fair to switch to Croatia either, this problem is not fair to transfer especially to this government in continuity because we are trying to do this in a way that we can solve the problem, solve it, not continue it. So this is about a law on the compensation of Salonite workers for losing their jobs. However, this definition can also be more content, since this is not a job loss that can eventually be found elsewhere. This is a job loss that is no longer available and can never be found, because, finally, by smart legislation, this type of production, this type of job has been abolished. So they haven't lost their jobs, so they'll eventually find them somewhere else. They've lost jobs they can never find again and nowhere. I can't find it for a few reasons. The first and the fundamental reason why such places don't open is because such places don't exist and such places can't exist anymore. Another reason is that these are people in years when health and health are difficult to hire. It's still a matter of professional preparation. They can't do anything but do it, because that's all they've ever done in their lives. So they're not people who have alternatives. Furthermore, their health status is such that they can do nothing else and that they suffer damages, because they did not get a job where they wanted to go, so they just wanted to do it, but it was the only solution that could be in Vranjic. With the story of Salonita Vranjic, I don't take away the story of Plobest and everyone else. We also had cases in Slovenia with the issue of asbestos. We encountered asbestos just as our colleague said on ships and firefighters dressed in asbestos suits to protect themselves from fires, etc. Asbesto was for a while a god-given material. Vasko Lipovac was working asbesto sculptures on the molds because he could bend asbestos leaves on the curved surface of the ball and make famous sculptures that were suggestions for Split three. In Split there will be just about one debate about the city's sculptures, and most of it was based on the sculptures of Vaska Lipovac right in asbestos. So it's not people's fault that they were doing asbestos, it's the wrong states and economies that did this asbestos. And it seems to me as much as asbestos salon is an old topic, now there's one look at it and an attempt to make up for what they've definitely lost. God forbid the asbestos is never gone again, and God forbid the people of those we speak last as long as possible. In order to last as long as possible, it may have really come to the point that out of 70 it came to 30, but these people think, God forbid I can get what I can and what I still have time to live I can live as humanly as possible. The middle we know well, Vranjic I know well, I know many people, and I don't think I deserve it, but I have given my best efforts to help these people and to ease their fate, the merciless fate that came upon them with the only choice of jobs, as some in the cement industry worked in the Castels in catastrophic conditions of dust, people living in Kaštels in catastrophic dust conditions, but today the situation is already much better with everything that has happened. We said since 2004, we've been dealing with this problem trying to sort it out somehow. However, in a certain way there are justified criticisms or remarks in the way this problem is solved and whether or not it is the fund, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Be careful, the Fund for Protection and Energy Efficiency really remains devoid of funds that were eventually not foreseen in that fund for such an item and there is a possibility that some other projects might be denied because of the money that went there. But on the other hand, we know that the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund is not something that lives outside of space and time, outside the Croatian budget, outside the Croatian economy, and that in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, the items can be changed to one side and the other in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. I have the impression that at this point, this was simply the fastest and most appropriate solution to get rid of this. He may be in this fund as one who is closest to him and who deals most with asbestos may have been an opportunity to get rid of it in this way, but I really don't know if it's the best thing or not, but the Salonita workers won't worry about what fund he's coming from. One warning is very important what a colleague of Hrelja said, how much this hole possibly opens for tomorrow, for some other resolutions. I don't care if they solve certain human problems, troubles because the state seems to exist for people, and people don't exist just for the sake of the state. So if you open it, I don't know how many problems or how many millions or hundreds of millions have come well if they go to someone who needs it and justly gets it, and we try to get to those millions so that these people can get it. But I don't see exactly one big identity, so the equality of this case with possible other cases because I point out again, it's not about losing a job just as it says here, and that's why it seems to me that it's not quite as explicit as it is... a job that cannot be compensated in any other way. [[You don't understand.]] So, if someone lost their job because the company failed, because some bankruptcy, etc., he may still come from one desk to my desk to work, but someone who can't do anything but one thing, and there's one thing that's gone nowhere but here, and he's not guilty of losing that job, and that job is even getting sick, so let's at least have some empathy, let's at least have some sympathy for making up for these people at least some of that. With all possible objections to all the governments that have dealt with these so far in excess or unsustainable, sufficient or insufficient ways, but if something good is going on, if this government has caught up with finding some means, that at least part of the problem solves, part of it easier, why take it for evil. I think it's coming for the good. Thank you very much. I support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76903	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First of all, the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76904	Dear colleague Roshin, you said these people had no choice. It's not entirely true, it can only be partially true. One part of the elderly, probably the sick certainly have no choice, but one part of the younger people probably has a choice and the state could offer another lending activity here, opening up another activity, new employment. After all, in the Venetto region when textile factories collapsed, a complete bakery industry was created that you and I enjoy in the time of Easter, Pannetone and all these things as a substitution of the textile industry. And secondly, I don't want to, I agree that people don't care what pocket they get from, but to us as council representatives, that can't be the same. I can't come here tomorrow because there's no money elsewhere, no money booked elsewhere, so pay off pensioners' compensation, one year's war from the Energy Efficiency Fund. That really wouldn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76905	Thank you very much. Correction of the second, honourable representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76906	Dear colleague Roshin, I, too, regrettably must correct your incorrect claim because it is not true that all 170 workers who worked on that date, i.e. on 14 February 2006, are old and sick. Among them are many young people and people who are not sick. And I have absolutely no objection to financially helping people who are really sick of asbestos and cancers caused by asbestos fibers, but the main argument for this law is that the government passed a law or list of dangerous substances that prohibits actual production, trade and so on, to stop production. I just remind myself that the bankruptcy process, the chosen production should have taken place before and that it had occurred before then would not have occurred because it would not have had any production banned because this production and should have been banned, which means that the government is directly responsible for the fact that, at the time of the ban, it was still producing asbestos material at the Salonite factory and that is the main problem. And not to mention that you're saying that life is like that, so there's got to be some kind of...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76907	Thank you very much. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76908	Both width and so on because the fund should be respected in accordance with the fund law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76909	Thank you very much. And one replica is still reported. Honorable representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76910	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You, a colleague of Roshin, pointed out in your presentation that it is extremely important for people who expect compensation to receive it. I agree with you, and I think it's extremely important to bring back a reputation for politics, that politicians when they promise to keep that promise, and this is a promise that's being fulfilled. I think it's extremely good. What you did wrong when you said it was that the fund was budgetary. No, the Environmental Protection Fund is an extra-financial fund and it really has one purpose that is related to environmental protection and energy efficiency projects and in this segment, I think that the government needs to reconsider which positions these funds will be paid off from and I agree with you that workers are completely no matter which positions they will be paid off from, but we as advocates have to take care of the respect of the law. What was very interesting to me, what you said was a question of some personal responsibility. We like to criticise as people, we don't like being criticized as politicians, but we often get trapped here by a Parliament speaker to criticize each other and when good decisions are made and good suggestions are put forward, and in fact we don't look at ourselves how responsible we are. Your comparison, or calculation of how many of us are here tonight when we talk about this important subject of human destiny, human lives, about lost families, is about our responsibility. Therefore, in order to restore this level of politics, we must first and foremost begin our responsibilities, and so must every citizen who chooses politicians. Because if each of us will have that kind of responsibility primarily personal in the family, in the workplace, then surely they will choose better politicians than they may have chosen today, so perhaps with these topics, more responsible politicians and responsible representatives will sit in a meeting than we are here tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76911	Thank you very much. And the opportunity to respond to the replica is used by the esteemed representative Jerko Roshin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76912	Thank you. My colleague Petyr is right. I said the question of the budget is really not budgetary. I ran into it not because I didn't know it, but I wanted to say that it can always be found from some other sources how to fill that fund in order to get that money, not in an exact procedure. In that sense, you're right. However, I would add to this that what my colleague Hrelja said earlier, there are probably other places. If he hadn't said probably then these things would have been discussed differently, because it probably doesn't mean it's certain to be. But what's key to what we're talking about today is what's the measure of this problem is a bill of law for these people to get that money. It's not the measure of this debate, it's an occasion, but it's not the scale of the debate to say how the problem occurred. Because we said that problem was a long time ago and so on. It's a political occasion, but I'd like to hear if my colleague Holly is willing to give them money, yes or no. And how many of those 170 are in this state or unable. One is the story of the responsibility of the state, and the other is the need of the one who needs the money. I'm on the side of the one who needs money, and I need to find it. Now we're not discussing my God. I answer to my colleague, Petyr. If you wanted to argue with me, you'd give me a replica, and you wouldn't be correcting the quote. So you've been avoiding me being able to answer you. It means you didn't feel quite sure what you were saying. Comrade Petyr, thank you for giving me a chance to say something. Ingrid, thank you for coming and increasing the numbers of this House by 0.6. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76913	Thank you very much. We'll continue our individual debate. So there's a little of us in the assembly room, but still, but now you're even better at hearing this throw from the bench. No more! Dear Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I mean, what's this to say after all these discussions so far? I expected that we would all actually leave this assembly in the light of the time that it is, and given the bill that is firstly necessary to say positive and which we should talk about exactly in a way that we should talk about whether this damage is, therefore, what people should be paid off as the topic of tonight's debate. Or the topic of the debate is that of colleague Holy, what we are constantly discussing on the Committee on Environmental Protection. I think so many times we've held a committee on asbestos, asbestos, and so on, to protect all these areas. So, which are polluted by asbestos, starts from Vranjic to Ploč, Rivers not to list all others where this unfortunate monster occurred. And I also didn't expect to discuss here maybe a colleague of Carmela, Bagaric, couldn't see doctors diagnose something here, etc. We've also heard about it on committees, etc. And I think we're all at one certain degree, which is that asbestos something that happened not yesterday but a hundred years ago. Asbesto production began a long time ago. And if we're going to go back to the accidents of the people and today the living who actually had each other's happiness, which is that we live at a time when if anything else for at least 10 or 15 years can determine that someone got sick and then help him in this regard, so health care. A lot of people ended up without even knowing what they ended up with. Shall we go back to Austro-Hungarian, former states, etc. now? and talk and look for the guilty. So I wanted to say one thing and that's what we all know is that it's pre-election time and we know that we'd all really like to use something. But human fate, especially based on disease, should not and should not be exploited and should not be in that context, so talk about the negativity of the state or not know who else or existing government. Because it's all the people who started something that's a hundred years old. And as we're about to talk about this government, so this government here finally, so the government that solves this problem in a certain way and part of it. So it will continue, and it is certain that in 10 years, someone who will be able to prove that he is sick of it will appear. Therefore, it should be supported, apart from this, that the compensation to support further recovery of all areas that are polluted, work even more to protect the environment. Because the previous discussions could actually claim a colleague on the left, that the government is doing this for pre-election purposes. Well, I'd say before that you wanted to do it because at least you talked about what you were supposed to talk about and say whether you were in or out. Whether or not you're in favour of depriving yourself, and you've thrown an accent on a dispute that I agree is a duality of whether or not we're going to need it from the fund. But if that's the basis of someone's debate, then I'm not into that kind of debate. I am of course in favour of considering the issue of all employees of the former Flobest in Ploče, but also of all those who have therefore worked and lived at risk from asbestos and other industries, in other, or shipbuilding, as mentioned by their colleague Hrelja or metallurgy, etc. So absolutely with that, I think we all agree. But basically here, the basis of the debate should be, and I think it's the backbone of everything, it's that we all support this bill, because it means helping people who have experienced their own personal family and therefore a wider tragedy, and it needs to help people in a way that helps them and makes life easier for them and therefore the treatment of diseases that they unfortunately have been sick of. Thank you very much. You could say a lot more.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76915	Thank you very much. One correction of an incorrect quote, one replica. The correction has a respected representative, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76916	Well, dear colleague, you're here, directing the discussion that there's a dilemma about whether to pay off the budget and pay off the fund. That dilemma can't exist. If you don't believe that, you're asking for a binding opinion of the state's audit, so they'll tell you you can't get out of it. ... It is incorrect that there is a dilemma, it does not exist because it must not be done, because the law is being violated, because the funds of the fund are being spent in a way that the Fund Act is not foreseen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So there's no dilemma. As there is no dilemma about the state's responsibility for the damage caused by workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76917	Thank you very much. There'd be a replica much better here than a correction of an incorrect quote. Now we're going to have a replica, a respected representative. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76918	... to tell my colleague Hrelja that he could have responded with a replica without any of it, but you actually tried to correct my opinion. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you, Vice President... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76919	So here's the replica, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76920	Here you will be able to answer to me and my colleagues. So I would just remind you of a respected colleague that when we came here at the beginning of our term, we said that we would respect the laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is not at all disputed to help people, but it is our responsibility as parliamentary representatives and advocates to respect the laws and Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately this law violates the Law on the Environmental Protection Fund, and violates the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And I'd just like to answer your question, of course, I'm not against compensation, but the damage to asbestos exposure and to people's health from exposure to asbestos, and this is not about compensation on that basis, but because of the government's decision to ban asbestos production, which has long been required to do in accordance with the Convention on Safe Treatment of asbestos. I am in favour of the state being fair and fair to all citizens and citizens, and if it degrades the workers of the Salonite to defile Plobest workers, and the shipyards, but this is not the subject of this law at least the government claims in the opening part of the law. Well, here it is, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76921	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica has a respected representative, Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76922	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Holly, I'd just like to start by saying that we've often thought together on the board, and I've often supported your proposals that have gone in a direction that is not in, based on principle and on the level of politics, or at the level of political attitudes, of the party you belong to. At that point, I have to react, and so this time, because I feel like you're against it anyway because of the way you're trying to replicate. It's clear to all of us what this is about, that it's about the title, that it's about what we're discussing, there's no need, we're none of us, it's not terra incognito, it's not Australia for us at the time of Greece, we all see what the law is about, but you should perform a little differently, and if you'd done a little differently then my opinion on it and my answer to you would be and wouldn't ask you for no reason whether you're in favour or not. I even have a feeling now that you're against it. Think carefully until tomorrow about some of the questions you tried to impose here tonight, but they're not going, I said in the introduction that this is already for me, so we know it's pre-election, a little politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76923	Thank you very much. The last debate today, honourable representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate. Well, knowing about carcinogenicity, and starting production for me is a crime, so I can say that, that goes into favor with the tendency of the government to spoil and repair, because it was, the state was a believer in bankruptcy, so we have to say that the responsibility of the state is now what happened. However, any compensation for damaged workers is necessary and none of us are against it, but I wonder why only Vranjic, why not Ploče? And, of course, I also have objections to the choice of finances, which brought up colleagues before me and my colleague Holly on behalf of the club, and I must also say that this law creates a sense of discrimination among patients, or among the damages of the effects of asbestos. Why do I say that? Well, here we were getting into the club, and I was getting emails and messages and remarks from the citizens of Ploč, a lot of former asbestos workers called me these days, and they're indignant by the fact that the government adopted and in the parliamentary procedure sent a proposal for a law on compensation, but only the workers of the Salonite in bankruptcy, based on which their 170 workers will receive each of the 210 kuna damages in the name of illness, due to exposure to asbestos. For years since March 2007, all these people have been fighting for the rights of unfortunate workers of the former asbestos factory from Ploč, together with the company of the victim of asbestos. Unfortunately, four people from the Neretva Valley of asbestos died in four consecutive days last May. The fact is also that all the remaining workers are unfortunately sick, abandoned, cheated, robbed, this is what I'm saying from what they're saying to me, driven to the street without 24 earned, and unpaid salaries. It was recently sold and sold for 126 million kunas bought from the state 8 years ago by several tycoons, privates and 10.5 million, and was not invested in it, nor was it decontaminated from deadly asbestos and phenol particles. It is terrible that one large factory that has been built for decades by these workers has been destroyed, robbed, illegally privatized and sold for small money to privates, and after a few years sold for 10 times the amount. There are few sick and disfigured asbestosists left, and no one wants to hear them. I note that the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos is the same for all asbestosists and should not be a special law for Salonite workers. The damaged wonders whether it is now possible to vote a special Law on the compensation of Salonite workers without even mentioning everyone who died and sacrificed from what they call "unhappily valleys of Neretva". That's why I'm only talking about them today. I certainly absolutely agree that Vranjica workers get a fee that is actually small if we compare it to what they are... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, of course, we all think so on this side like you do. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] People have lost a lot of things, but I repeat, where in this whole story are the workers from the record. And I'm going to read another e-mail that I got from a dissident worker who says he speaks for everyone. "However, with surprise and disdain, I received news that the Minister of Economy, Mr. Popiac, approved all the workers of Salonit Vranjic who found themselves in bankruptcy amounting to about 200 thousand kuna in the name of compensation, etc. In view of the fact that asbestos, i.e. after PLOBEST, has allocated certain funds for the purpose of compensation for the care of its workers on the basis of asbestos, and this is not the case with the Salonite because they have not been registered for the processing of asbestos as it is possible that they have become more endangered than we have, the worker wondered. In terms of illegal privatisation and after bankruptcy, we had absolutely the same fate. And they and we went into bankruptcy without a couple of payouts, and the severances I don't even talk about. Well, then it's just them, not us. The fact is that their engagement in the media was far higher, their demands far stronger and more concrete, but that's no reason to put one in front of the other, and we're all in the same problems. I give support and support to all disfellowshipped workers who have recently been wandering from the pitiless to the unloved have not been advocating for asbestos, while at the same time begging God that they do not have it. Dear gentlemen, I think discrimination is in the sick and I'm afraid that the early asbestos mentioned earlier by a colleague that really stays and lasts." It mentioned a lot today on several occasions a promise, a signed promise and a fulfillment, etc., but unfortunately for some promise of insane joy. We have to think of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76925	Thank you very much. We have the correction one and one replica. The correction has a respected representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76926	There you go, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Shimac you see wrongly said that it is not true that no one wants to hear from the board workers. That is not true, and the fact is that many board members, including you and your party colleagues who are members of the Environmental Protection Committee, will confirm that every time this topic was discussed, people from Ploč were there, sick of asbestos, also their association Our Beauty and We talked to them. I also spoke to my colleagues personally in Vrgorec and in Pletcha. I went to them and they went to my place because there were also my citizens from Vrgorec who worked in asbestos in the boards. So, not once did we talk about this issue at the head of their lead man who takes care of it, Mr. Batinovic. I'm glad you guys got involved in this debate, so let's keep it outside the board, and here's when you go to the Vrgorac for Dubrovnik knot and come over for a cup of coffee, and we'll talk about that problem just as purely human outside the assembly benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76927	Thank you very much. Okay. Let's go to the replica. The Republic has a respected representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76928	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow I'd say here's what I'd say is that you're a little awkward in your presentation because it's really not true that no one cares about these people. After 10 years in the Croatian Parliament, the Environment Protection Committee launched a debate not only on areas polluted by asbestos, which is our jurisdiction, but precisely because we had the appeal of these people to be helped and we extended our activities to their compensation and to other rights. And I think that we can be satisfied with the results of the work because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has had an understanding of our initiatives that are fully supported. And I wouldn't say that the promise of insane joy is because this is a promise that has been made and that is being fulfilled. It was true that different amounts were discussed, but it is true that the funds that the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Environmental Protection have invested in the salaries of Salonite workers who have worked so far on recovery must be rejected. And that's why your statements today are something different from what was discussed in 2008 or 2009. And what I'd like to mention here is that they're dealing with the wrong concepts. This is not a law relating to workers who have suffered from asbestos because we have passed these laws, a whole package of laws, this is a law relating to workers who have lost their jobs because they have entered into force of the legal regulations that have banned the use of asbestos. I think it's extremely important in this context to discuss it that way. This is not a topic where someone should collect political points because no other place is my constituency, I personally and personally visited both workers and the sick and went down to Vranjica and I was in the Plots and I met with these people. They have a really hard destiny and they don't have a lot of pain, and I think it's up to all of us to help them, not to outwit who did it more or less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76929	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76930	Thank you very much. I understand what this is about, but this is the time and place to mention board workers. My whole discussion that was, please. ... Absolutely. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My entire discussion that was being transmitted. All those remarks that were made to me as representatives from that area of people. We're not here to be able to help them anymore, I think we're all on it. A lady from Plocha called me this afternoon and said I believe the most in three graces, thinking of you and Myrel Holly and me. So we all act that way. And I'm also going to accept coffee from my colleagues from Vrgorec and I'm glad we're all working for our people from Plot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76931	Thank you very much. Here's no more charges for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. This brings us to the end of today's work of the Croatian Parliament. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. And at 12:00, there will be a vote and I hope there will be more MPs and deputies than tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-07-07-0.u76932	We move on to the Final Bill on the Compensation of Workers of the company "Salonit d.d." in Vranjic bankruptcy. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 847. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on the compensation of the company's workers "Salonit d.d." in Vranjic bankruptcy. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by most votes, 91 votes for, 5 abstentions, nothing against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. Almost shouldn't be a man in the crowd or talking, it'd be easier to count, but here we go. We move to this item of the agenda, which is announced - - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 848 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Jasen Mesic, Minister of Culture. Here you go.
