ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66735	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The adoption of this Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products will create a prerequisite for the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia to fully comply with the legal property of the European Union in the field of security of supply, i.e. the formation and storage of mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products, as well as other issues relating to the smooth functioning of the oil and petroleum products market. In the process of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, the application of the provisions of the Supply Safety Directive, Directive 67 of 2006 as regards the formation of 90 daily mandatory stocks of oil and petroleum products in the previous year was one of the criteria for the temporary closure of Chapter 15. - Energy. The Republic of Croatia was then granted a transitional period for the formation of mandatory oil and petroleum products until 31 July 2012, with the primary reason that significant storage facilities need to be built in the Republic area, requiring time and considerable financial resources. This date will also be an integral part of the accession treaty for the European Union. Therefore, the proposed amendments cover all sub-legislative acts adopted since the 2006 law was passed, including a regulation with the legal force which prescribes the work of the Croatian Oil and Oil Products Agency, with the exception of Handa. In this sense, great progress has been made and all activities are taking place with the planned dynamics. However, as the completion of the construction of sufficient own storage facilities is timed already, we have signed an interstate contract with the Federal Republic of Germany, which is normally and reserved for members of the European Union, so that the mandatory reserves of one Member State can be stored on the territory of another Member State. This contract as well as the contracts that are in preparation enable us to meet the obligation to build our own storage facilities. In order to maintain this successful trend, it is necessary to continue to harmonise domestic legislation relating to the development and security of the oil market. On 14 September 2009, the Council of Europe adopted a new Directive on the storage of mandatory oil or petroleum products, Directive 119 of 2009, with a view to bringing the legal framework of the European Union closer to the legal framework of the International Energy Agency and with a view to increasing the availability of mandatory supplies and better control of supplies. The amendments to the law therefore allow for the continuous transition of the existing Directive 67 from 2006 to the new Directive 119 of 2009 which basically means that by 31 March 2013, we form compulsory stocks of 90 days of average net imports or 61 days of average domestic consumption, depending on which amount is higher. The law regulates the wording and issue of ingested oil gas as an activity covered by this law which, in the future, can be included in the new directive in accordance with the new Directive and become part of the mandatory stock. The law will therefore meet the preconditions necessary for the construction of part of planned storage facilities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. the start of an investment cycle of about one billion kuna, which should be completed by half of 2013. Acting in accordance with the proposed legal provisions will increase the security of supply as a whole because, in accordance with the principle of solidarity after entering the European Union, we will be able to rely on the assistance of other Member States if our mandatory supplies are not sufficient for any reason at any time. One of the elements of the law is also a new way of determining the publication and application of the highest price of petroleum products and this new way of applying will allow for an increase in competition on the oil derivatives market. In particular, it is foreseen that the maximum price allowed for an individual oil derivative which distributors will not be able to cross under the prescribed conditions, but which will be the basis for the movement on our nearest Mediterranean market to be calculated and published for the accounting period under the Ministry of Energy's work. Within that price, it will be allowed to freely form prices for distributors who, depending on their business policy, can form different prices in different sales places. The elements participating in price formation will be visible to energy entities and the public as far as possible, will be defined by the Regulation and supervised by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The market for oil derivatives in the Republic of Croatia will also be increased, as increased reporting will further monitor the flow of goods on the market, supply status, and thus the collection of revenues from the state budget. Furthermore, in order to prevent an extraordinary market disturbance in the amendments to the law, mechanisms have been put in place to ensure the responsibility of energy operators, including the regulation of labour obligations for workers in the sector in the event of crisis situations. In addition to the mandatory stocks formed for exceptional market supply disturbances, operational stocks, category of operational stockholders and their rights are also defined. These stockpiles for ensuring stable and secure heat production, the technological process of processing and processing of oil and air traffic. The law also opens up the possibility of rationalising business, reducing costs and discharging the state budget through the creation of a single logistics system of oil supplies, including oil supplies, oil derivatives for special needs, such as the Croatian Army, the Directorate for Stocks. On the basis of all that is stated on behalf of the Proposer, we propose that this Law be implemented by emergency procedure and in order to comply with the directives of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66736	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66737	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This Act continues to bring the oil and oil products market into line with the practice and way of functioning of the market in the European Union. The most important changes relate to the way in which the most permissible price of petroleum products, the operational stock of petroleum products, the action in the event of an extraordinary disturbance in the supply of oil and petroleum products markets. A more high quality reporting system is established, i.e. the establishment of a central body that will be exclusively in charge of the supply and management of mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products, but also the setting up of supplies, i.e. the construction of storage facilities for the storage of oil and petroleum products, in accordance with the obligations we have assumed. During the negotiations and the temporary closure of Chapter XV. – Energy requires the formation of mandatory oil and petroleum products supplies as one of the preconditions for security of supply. Also, given that a new directive was adopted at European Union level in September 2009, which also brings the European Union into line with the legal framework of the International Energy Agency, with a view to increasing the availability of mandatory supplies and better control of supplies. It was also necessary in these amendments and amendments to the law to implement these latest solutions. At this time, the Republic of Croatia has no resolved storage capacity for the quantities of oil and oil derivatives that we as a state are obliged to store as supplies. The date until which it is due is March 2013. So, by 31 March 2013, Croatia must provide storage facilities, i.e. create a unique logistics system that will cover our obligations under the directives, so on these latest amendments and additions to the laws, but also the storage of oil derivatives for the needs of the military and the Directorate for Stocks. Building capacity that we are missing and whose construction will include the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Stocks and JANAF as investors will also come from the point of view of starting an investment cycle because it is an assessment that in order to meet the obligations should invest about a billion kuna in these storage facilities. The compatibility of our system allows us to also rely on the principle of solidarity of Member States to join the European Union in the event of problems with the security of oil supply and oil derivatives. It should also be pointed out by the State Secretary that the Republic of Croatia is serving its obligation at the moment, i.e. it has been settled with contracts with the Federal Republic of Germany. Another important thing that is regulated by these amendments is the determination of the maximum retail price of petroleum products, which is, in relation to the current legal solution, a harmonisation with the European Union but also an additional step as the maximum price is determined. Therefore, a framework is given in which distributors and distributor prices can be moved, and the formation of these prices, hence the determination of the maximum price, is based on daily reports of the price of oil and petroleum products on the Mediterranean market. Such a solution should contribute to the transparency of the oil derivatives market, but should also increase competition on the oil derivatives market. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66738	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66739	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the club of the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support this bill, a law that is an integral part of the overall harmonisation of our laws with the legislation of the European Union, a commitment that we have made when we close Chapter 15 and something that we, as a country, need, necessarily and as a responsible state, must have. There is definitely nothing controversial about it, and now I am not repeating the words that Mrs. Secretary of State and colleagues have said on behalf of the HDZ Club. It is clear that by virtue of this Law, the State has an obligation to build storage facilities. It is clear that in the time ahead, this gives us a new opportunity through investment, through the development of the economy in a smaller segment, and it is clear that as a responsible state, and in this segment, we must provide the necessary preconditions, and in order to be able to function, that the economy can primarily function, so that as a state, it can function. And it is certain that, by accepting this legislative proposal, we are creating a space by which we are thus entering into a large European family, and by the basis of this law, we are creating space for the adoption of these standards to be supported by the European family in the event of any significant disturbances and in this segment. However, we at the Croatian People's Party club, the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party, want to clarify some events related to the formation of storage facilities, related to the construction of storage facilities, certain that JANAF as a company is in charge of building these premises, surely that this is something that the Ministry of Economy as a Resorient Ministry is monitoring the realization of the set goals, of the commitments, because ultimately what we are talking about today is not since yesterday. It is known, for at least one 4.5 years, that we will need it and in this direction some things have been done and it is done, and here is the recent and open one building warehouse in Sisak, started new, is planned at some other locations. We didn't take advantage of the opportunity at the time when we could LNG terminal on Krk. It's because these investments aren't even in investments, the economic recovery programme, they're the ones that should be made or built right away, so our preparation is almost nothing, but one thing is or something is done by JANAF a short time ago, which is buying a warehouse in Dioki, of. ... Diocium. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And there are a variety of information that the Croatian public should have accurate information on, because the fact that JANAF is from Diokia, as much as it has influence or no influence, but that transaction was made just before his prime ministership left the former prime minister who is now sitting in Austrian prison because of possible corruption, and has made a huge shame on all of us, that this transaction was made at that time, the facts are that the fact that we are looking for in the club of the Croatian People's Party, the Croatian party of pensioners, we are looking for information that this warehouse was bought for 18 million euros, that with this warehouse, practically the owner of Dioki has charged his total investment in Dioki and still earned more. And it is also a fact that either information, better said information, that several years before that INA transaction as an interested buyer was ready to pay only 5m to 6m euros for that warehouse. In other words, JANAF bought that warehouse three times bigger than it was ready for INA, and there's definitely something wrong with that. Or the former INA administration has been irresponsiblely doing its job, so one good investment, a good opportunity, a good opportunity, the necessary infrastructure in this energy sector, when we talk about oil, has acted irresponsiblely, or if the INA has acted irresponsiblely, it is difficult to explain why JANAF bought this whole story from INA for three times the price. The fact that it stores only 5 kilometers from the centre of Zagreb, the fact that this warehouse is located within the space of a technological process which, in its very nature,... The character, therefore, is also a solution to this information is necessary and necessary for the safety of the entire part of the city of Zagreb, clarification and information is necessary and necessary in order to clarify the cost of the investment. [[You don't understand.]] But also, as it is known, that the Dioki before the sale of that warehouse succeeded, as well as in what way but apparently skilled, that space turned from an industrial building area into a building area. Is JANAF planning on building a shopping mall in that area, so it was a motive to pay three times the price? Also Croatian taxpayers through the price of oil salaries and a certain fee that goes to the agency. The agency has entered the ownership structure of JANAF, over 25%, which is logical, and which is good and which is necessary. However, whether it is accurate information that the agency, just before entering the ownership structure, and as responsible for the whole area, in the negotiations between JANAF and Diokija, made one very clear, has shown one very clear position, which is that this investment is bad for JANAF. That this investment in this warehouse is not in the context of the building of the total storage capacity, which is needed because they knew at the time that we would accept the obligation by virtue of the Council of Europe's decision, the European Directive, but at that time it was known that we would have to take that obligation. However, JANAF concluded the sale contract, paid 18m euros to Diokija, Mr Ježić, and despite all this, we have a very vague situation today, whether it is true or not. Is that part of the overall economic policy? Is this part of the economic policy that was present and which is now being processed, which makes us all citizens feel ashamed every day? Or is it a good economic move, as the chairman of the JANAF Supervisory Board, Minister Jandrokovic, claims? Is that true? Therefore, I think it would be very important and necessary, necessary and would be a minimum of decency to clarify the overall situation. And because of the integrity and responsibility and position of the management of JANAF, and also because of the chairman of the JANAF Supervisory Board. Because the chairman of the JANAF Supervisory Board is the foreign minister of the government of the Republic of Croatia. I think because of these people, it's irresponsible not to have that information. That is why I believe, and respecting the new practice of three days ago when the president of the HDZ Club asked the question of the Minister of Economy, and this area is under the authority of the Minister of Economy, about the possible irregularities of one of the leaders of the opposition party, Mr. Cacic. So the economy minister supported the concern of something repeated cyclically in the pre-election period, every now and again. So he asked the police minister if, or advised the police minister to launch the action. So the minister turned to get us started. If it hadn't been for that question, the police minister wouldn't have raised that question. Because also the head of the Anti-crime Service has made it very clear that Mr. Cacic is not under investigation. Based on the information we've heard we'll launch the necessary reconnaissances. So on the basis of this example because of consistency and our sincere common stance against crime, I sincerely repeat the common attitude of the fight against crime myself, in the context of this point, am I also asking the Minister of Economy whether this information about the transaction JANAF – DIOKI or JANAF – Mr Ježić is true or is he a lie? Because of the Croatian public, because of all of us and because of evidence that we really have a very clear position in the fight against corruption. So here's again the opportunity for the Minister of Economy to clarify this case with his authority, his influence. I repeat, because of the Croatian public, because of the taxpayers because each of you, each of us, each of us, when buying, when paying gas at a gas purchase, pays and part of the fee that goes in support of this entire system. Well, here's a chance to prove that we really have genuine intentions, not pre-election campaigns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66740	To ask ministers questions, there is an institute when we open a session, and it can also be written to ask the ministers to answer certain questions outside of the constituency, so they can always ask a question so that this should not be opened here for a special debate. We've got one wrong, two wrong. Mr. Andrija Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66741	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague said two inaccuracies, which is not true, so I'm correcting them. First, that the economy minister supported the concern of lawmakers who asked about Cacic's crime. He did not support it, colleague, but read the State Audit report confirming that it was a crime. So he didn't support it, he read the State Audit report. And secondly, he said the police minister said he would launch an investigation on the basis of the issue. No, but based on a book that came out a month ago, it was authored by a Varazdin journalist, in which detailed and reasoned even with photocopies are presented, in that book, crimes in the conversion of Cacic's "Coning". It is therefore about measurement and all available sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66742	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66743	Mr. President Koračević says that JANAF is what or DEOKI, I don't know, that they have been able to reschedul the place for the mall and the like. So we know the repurpose of the space who works – unit of local self-government, that is, in this case, the City of Zagreb. Therefore, he was the only one who could. And I'm not surprised that a colleague is well aware of such things because a respected HNS man has obtained land for the construction of a humanitarian facility managed to sell that land at a price 10 times the price of a trade chain. Thus, a colleague is well aware of how it is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66744	If we were to determine who's good or bad to know, but I think it's within this question. Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mrs. Tanya Wrbat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66745	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow representatives and representatives of the ministry. With this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, which enters the procedure as a European law, we introduce certain harmonisations of our legislation with the acquis of the EU, but also some newspapers that I don't think they are. As far as legal gain is concerned, we align it with the directives in the field of security and oil supply and its derivatives. We are harmonising this law with our obligation to secure oil and oil products which every serious state that cares about the regular supply of its industry and citizens must have as much as it must have for gas. For both things, Croatia already compensates for its lack of storage space by bilateral agreements with some other countries primarily from the region. If by 31 July 2012, we do not resolve the storage capacity for certain oil supplies by contract as we have heard with the Republic of Germany, we are already making up for the shortages of our capacities, and in the future we will have similar contracts as announced to sign with Hungary and Italy. The construction of four new storage spaces, 2 on Zagreb's Žitnjak and in Sisak for goods and commercial supplies has been announced. It is projects from an announced investment cycle worth about an alleged billion kuna that should be completed by half of 2013. I hope that this project will begin to be realized and that it will not be announced again in 6 months as something bombistic new, but that something more serious will be done in that time. The law stipulates that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the ministry, brings forward a plan for intervention in the event of an extraordinary disturbance in the supply of the oil market. The intervention plan also sets out the procedures and criteria for determining the exceptional supply of competences and responsibilities in the event of supply disturbances, as well as for the normalisation of the supply of the Republic of Croatia's market. The intervention plan also provides for action in the event of an international decision on the release of exceptional mandatory stocks of oil and petroleum products into the market. According to changes in the mandatory supply of oil and its derivatives, Croatia will form an average domestic consumption of 90 days by 31 July 2012. An expert body shall be planned to calculate this level of necessary supplies to monitor and manage them and be in cooperation with the relevant European Commission bodies. Certainly such an emergency situation should be regulated there we all agree, but I hope that if such an extraordinary situation arises that in these supplies we will really find oil and oil derivatives, that they will not disappear as they knew to disappear grain or other products from the supply. However, as I understand this amendment, we end up with harmonisation and we introduce how I see some things that are not in the scoreboard, at least in this bill, it may be in line with someone else you forgot to mention, for example, by liberalising the market or by some other regulations of the Council of Europe, but I have not seen in the scoreboard, which we are harmonising and this concerns fuel prices. Now I'm asking, we have the representatives of the ministry here, so please explain this part of the price formation. According to changes in prices at petrol stations, the government will determine, not to be announced by INA and other companies, but the government will set a range of prices, and companies will set the price of the derivatives themselves, but if I understand correctly, that price will be able to change every day, so there have been some media announcements, so please explain that part because it creates additional and unnecessary uncertainty on the market. The prices are adjusted every 15 days, based on the rules on the price determination of derivatives, and the maximum allowed maximum weekly increase or reduction of prices is 3 %. The correction according to the regulation depends mostly on the trend in the price of derivatives on the Mediterranean market, and as we know the movement of the dollar rate towards the kuna. Because there is no citizen in this country today who does not suffer from further rising fuel prices and we wonder, among other things, why today's fuel is twice as expensive to us than when the price of barrels in 2008 reached $150. Because compared to two years ago, now global supplies are relatively solid, and yet there are allegedly enough spare capacity. So I'm asking you again if these changes will allow oil derivatives and their prices to change every day or not? Namely, as some carriers have told me, transport service providers, they report to an INA competition as an oil company, and they have to commit in the tender documentation to hold the same price of service for two or more years, and the price of oil is not known what it will be like tomorrow, let alone what it will be in two years. I don't think that's right at all, and that your transport service providers can't get conscious of the loss. Already today, fuel prices reach an almost magical limit of 10 kuna per litre, but we remember not so long ago, when this government kept the fuel price below the psychological 8 kuna per litre and swore that the price would be below 8 kuna, now we can laugh recalling these times. I still think that a little more detailed in the law should be regulated and taxed, I know that not all situations can be predicted but a little more detail as to what would be the emergency situation, whether the government can block the price of fuel for 90 days that match three months for which it would be convenient to block the price of fuel before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66746	Thank you. Replica Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66747	Well, I'm glad my colleague's worried about the carriers who drive the INA oil derivatives, but she needs to know a little about what these carriers got the job in the first place. Namely, INA had a very strong part of its INA Transport company, which, due to the government's interest there in 2002 or 2001, was abolished, where management president Dragicevic and chairman of the monitoring board Linic abolished INA Transport, caused huge damage to the INA and introduced companies of their friends who at least carried oil derivatives in the coming years. Therefore, the INA could carry the good part on its own very neatly today, but you can no longer see on the roads a tanker that INA writes on, because it was actually systematically destroyed for the benefit of your own friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66748	Answer, Mrs. Tanya Wrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66749	Dear colleague Markovanovic, I am absolutely not interested in who changed that, I hear the problems of the carrier and it is not just about the transport of oil, but about the transport of INA workers and other things. So if it wasn't good, you had time for two mandates to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66750	Thank you. Let's move on, it's time for the esteemed MP, Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66751	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd actually like to ask our colleagues and colleagues from the government a few questions, given that I'm not professional enough for this area, but I don't think some things are clear enough either in reason or in this introductory part of the law. In this very opening part, you said that the implementation of this law would cost nothing to the Republic of Croatia, that it would not be necessary to provide additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, and it is planned, according to what is stated in the opening part of the Law, that by 31 July 2012, a storage capacity for oil and oil derivatives should be built in the Republic of Croatia, and how much I was able to figure out from all of this should cost some billions of kuna. Now the question is, how are these storage facilities planned to be built, or who will build them? Whether or not the state will participate in these operations and through state-owned companies in some way, is this where INA plans to build these storage facilities, I don't think that's clearly defined enough. And besides, I don't remember that the Energy Strategy that we adopted in 2009 was even about these storage facilities for oil and oil products. I remember it was a gas storage facility, but I really don't remember this. Since a billion kuna is not a small amount of money and it really is an extremely large asset, I would ask you to explain to us how these projects are really planned to be implemented. How I managed to figure out this kind of 4 storage capacity, with which money and whether you already have some hodogram based on which you could explain to us a little bit more where, in which time, with which money, these storage facilities will be built, because I feel sorry for the MPs and MPs when deciding on such drafts of the law, they must also have that information. I apologize if in this text that you have given us I have not been able to read this information, but I do not see in the Energy Strategy that we have adopted nor in this bill how it will be realized. Otherwise, I think it is good to build such storage facilities for oil and oil derivatives because this certainly ensures the security of supply of these extremely important energys to the Republic of Croatia, and in this sense I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66752	Thank you. Ms. Representative Vesna Buterin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66753	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is therefore important to begin by saying that the existing Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products is designed to carry out all activities related to oil and petroleum products. The existing law is also in line with the legal acts of the EU Council, also in the field of security of oil and oil supply. The law is also fully in line with Council Directive 2006/67, which addresses the issue of the storage of mandatory oil stocks, which was adopted after the law was declared. It should also be said that in the process of negotiations on the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, security of supply in terms of compulsory oil and oil supply was also one of the key issues for the temporary closure of Chapter 15 – Energy. The Republic of Croatia has approved a transitional period for the formation of compulsory stocks by 31 July 2012 and primarily because the Republic of Croatia must build significant storage facilities which, of course, entails a certain amount of time, but also significant financial resources to be invested in that investment. In the meantime, it is also necessary to say that the Council adopted a new directive on the storage of mandatory oil and oil products, all with a view to bringing the EU legal framework closer to the legal framework of the International Energy Agency and with a view to increasing the availability of mandatory supplies and better supervision of the stocks themselves. The new Directive also significantly amends the obligation to form compulsory stocks and in terms of the amount of the obligation but also in terms of the determination of the obligation. The new Directive also provides for the establishment of a central body within each Member State, and this body would be solely responsible for the supply and management of mandatory oil and petroleum products supplies. Therefore, the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products will, above all, create a prerequisite for the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia to fully comply with the EU acquis in the area of security of supply, i.e. the formation and storage of compulsory stocks that will be in force until 31 December 2012. It will also create preconditions for meeting the obligation to form mandatory oil and petroleum products in the amount of 90 days of average domestic consumption by 31 January 2012, and will also meet the necessary requirement to form mandatory stocks of oil and petroleum products in the amount of 90 days of average net imports or 61 days of average domestic consumption depending on which amount of these two mentioned higher. The preconditions necessary to build part of the planned storage facilities will also be met. the start of an investment cycle that will be worth around a billion kuna, and it should end by 2013. It is important to stress that these changes and additions to the law will increase and security of supply as a whole, the transparency of the oil and oil products market will increase, as well as the competitiveness of the oil products market will be increased by changing the way oil products are determined, publishing and applying the highest price of oil products, and the possibility will also be created that with the aim of rationalising business, reducing costs and discharging the state budget, a single logistics system of oil supplies, including supplies of oil and oil derivatives for all specific needs. Personally, I think it is a very high-quality proposal for legal changes and additions, and of course I will support these amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66754	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66755	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government. If we just remember a little bit in the '80s, if we think of fuel stamps that were distributed monthly for 20 liters, but not per car per citizen. If they were only privileged then they could get 30l per car, if we remember that car owners with license plates that end with even numbers could drive on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, and odd on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, if we remember how much difficulty and ingenuity the sick child was supposed to be when the cold went to the hospital. How long did it take to figure out if you're going to run out of gas when you're on the road? Because how you're going to comfort him if you're 20 liters out of gas. If we are just a little uncomfortable remembering how much they had to count on how to deploy these 30 or 20 liters in a month and when they would need someone to know in advance, then at least to us, to those who remember those times should be clear why this law is needed and how much we should accept it and support it. All mankind and its fate depend mostly on man's behavior, his relationship with nature, his relationship with man, and his relationship with economic activity. And economic activity depends on both technology and man and its behaviour and capital, but in recent modern times most on oil and oil derivatives. Oil directly or indirectly depends on the whole world, oil depends on economic activity, oil depends on science, oil depends on ultimately, and each individual as a man, oil depends on today, and the fate of every man. And so as man became addicted to oil, oil industry and oil industry owners became the richest layer in the entire social system. Rarely where and precisely because it depends most on oil and oil industries rarely where so much is speculated and manipulated by a market such as the oil market. As the market price in the market economy depends solely on supply and demand. How to explain that from the offer and demand prices vary only a few days or several months, from $45 per barrel to $150 per barrel. This is not the result of the competition, it is not the result of market conditions or market economy, it is the result of speculation and manipulation. And so we came into a situation where the cold oil industry sneezes all over the world, when the oil industry needs money to pay the whole world, when the oil industry wants to pay a little more profits every man in the world. We must warn of such unsolicited phenomena. And everything that happened and bad happened in the oil industry in Croatia paid the whole of Croatia as well. For years, INA has overtook its irrationality and its irrational behaviour and the consequences of such irrationality to the rest of Croatia and Croatia has paid well for irrational behaviour. And for everything that happened in the INA, only one who was convicted in the meantime during the trial died. That is why I support this law because it guarantees and security of supply so that we would never get into those unpleasant situations, but it also limits the maximum price to avoid being over-manipulated and over-abused by the oil industry. It is high time to stop business policy in the Croatian oil industry as expensive as possible and sell as expensive as possible, because it can buy cheaper and sell cheaper, and it can be bought cheaper if intermediaries are avoided, and there are dozens of them, and these intermediaries live better than the oil industry in Croatia. And if goods are purchased directly on the world market, from direct suppliers then costs can be reduced and costs can be reduced in the INA, but not in the way they only do so, by firing employees. No, that's not how you cut costs, so you just cut employees' salaries, but business costs can be reduced. And there is no reason for this price of oil to be in Croatia as it is today because it is not the result of market relations either. That's why I support this law because it will limit the maximum price and guarantee security because we can't let the whole system stop because there's no oil or because it's impossible to use oil because it's expensive because it affects everything else, because we said that both man and the economy have become addicteds to oil. I support this law for everything said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66756	Thank you. We have a replica, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66757	You told your colleague that when you collected or priced oil on the world market, you so vividly said sneezes on the world market, that it would rain on the whole world. However, our situation is far more dangerous. In Croatia, we don't sneeze our market, but it gets pneumonia. Namely, how to explain the situation when on the world market oil prices rise in our price of oil and oil products is rising dramatically. And when that same price drastically decreases with us, the price of oil and gasoline eventually decreases by a little bit. What kind of market is it then for us when during the coalition government exactly according to something the price of oil and oil derivatives with the purchase of oil on the world market, it was those famous Hebrang posters with Pinocchio, with the nose of Pinocchio, and I am now asking you if today the nose from Pinocchio would be to Tokyo.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66758	Replica reply, Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66759	Comrade Antičević, you said when the oil industry sneezed. The oil industry doesn't sneeze, she does, I say when she gets cold then she sneezes the whole world. But it didn't happen that she was sneezing or even cold. And in Croatia, you said in Croatia that the oil industry had pneumonia. No, the oil industry will receive all citizens of the Republic of Croatia when it cools and in Croatia pneumonia. That's what I'm afraid of. And I suggest that the oil industry in Croatia be more rational so that it does not catch cold and increase prices as you said when prices of 20% and INA fall on the world market, the price of 1% or 0.5% is reduced on the world market, and when prices per barrel from 145 dollars to 90 INA creates stocks at the price of 145 dollars by two years. That's not how you run the company. But they can when it's all over the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And the oil industry only holds high prices because that profit is exploited and used to buy other companies. And there is also a key problem for paying off their shares that in the meantime are gaining on world markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66760	Thank you. Replica Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66761	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maric, I prefer this replica of yours more than that picturesque essay you've brought about in terms of oil, oil industry in the world. It is true that there is an addiction, so the whole world in the oil industry in oil production, and it has been said for 50 years that it will soon be exhausted by oil sources etc. We already know that together, and we have years of what you say, and you and I remember those bonsa couple odd, etc. 30 years. But this Croatian state has been there for 20 years and we've had this knowledge that we had and then, and we still have it today, thank God and mind, we haven't done anything. And besides, when we talk about oil reserves and oil storage, we also need to know that Croatia has about 40% of its own sources or oil supplies from its own sources, and this could also be used in the strategy and in the application of this, here's what we're talking about here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66762	Here you go. Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66763	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, so the whole world is speculating whether there's enough oil or not for decades. But how come five years ago there's no shortage, so after only a month, there's as much as you want. He's obviously speculated with that data, and unfortunately, science has included it, unfortunately, and he's covering all of it. Because there are many who benefit from it. And many have the benefit of covering up the real truth, and the real truth is hidden about INA's business over the past 20 years. A year and a half ago, I said that it was time to thank all those who managed, members of the administration who managed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia in INA. I am, not yet but I hope you will be very soon relieved of that duty. But the management of every company as well as INA depends mostly on management, and whoever ran everything for us is no wonder what this INA looked like to us. But they had their political sponsors from the highest peaks, even lower levels, and that's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66764	Thank you. Mrs. Mariana Petrir, also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66765	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In your presentation, you pointed out that our oil industry acted irrationally in many of its actions. I agree with you. It is evident that they acted as drunk billionaires, that they were thinking in the short term and not in the long term, which shows only an example of the town of Sisak where until recently the citizens of the town of Sisak had to breathe on gills because we had such administrations of our oil industry that didn't care about their employees or their citizens and did not invest in modernization. Only the pressures and pressures of my Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection and us as parliamentary representatives have launched the process of modernising the INA of the Refinery in Sisak. We'll see if it's too late and it'll be over in time. So far, 118m euros have been invested. A total of 450m euros are foreseen. And we're expecting a report these days with which dynamics this is all happening together. However, it is quite certain that by looking at our oil industry as well as by looking at the oil industry not only in the environment but also beyond that it is a business where there is haughtiness, where insensitiveness is present, and this is the final examples of the business of the Rafineria in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where, with the support of the President of the Croatian Parliament, we have been looking for a meeting with parliamentarians from Bosnia and Herzegovina for months to prevent this situation, where the irresponsible business of the Rafineria in the Bosnian Ship, which has also had an explosion this morning and has not informed our authorities and we as neighbours, happens that citizens of Slavonski Brod are often exposed to unnecessary harmful emissions of different gases. And of course I also use this opportunity to invite all those responsible to cooperate and try to solve this problem to the well-being and citizens of Slavonski Brod, of course both the Bosnian Ship and our entire region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66766	Thank you. Mr. Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66767	Thank you, dear colleague Petyr. You're talking about irrationality. Also, the results of some irrationalities are some who took part in the procurement of oil INAs are today the majority owners of hotels and businesses in Croatia. And that says what kind of irrationality it was. Let's just check at what price INA sold out its assets. At what price she sold apartments in her possession, and at what cost she bought gas stations from privates in some villages, then we'll see and then we'll know what made the situation the way it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66768	Thank you. A little optimism about this should all look at the future of energy and oil. Because at least we in Croatia got one encouraging news that in Osijek cars started to drive on water, so we're looking at it with some optimism in the future. We have another debate. Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go. It's not a club. The club went through more than individually. Okay, it doesn't matter. That's fine if it's true. All right, all right. Let's not make it our habit. But since there's a man. Yeah?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66769	I'd have to do a replica first, Mr. President, of this car of yours on the water, on the perpetum of the mobile. But, well, God forbid it's a water car, so we don't even have to use this material to discuss oil and oil derivatives. It would be a lot more ecological if we could have a car on the water. But let's not waste any time. In fact, Mrs. Petyr started exactly what actually asked me to talk about this matter that I'm not an expert at admiting. However, in Slavonski Brod, a building initiative for clean air was established, the Slavonski Brod is indeed an air quality threatened city, the sixth largest city in Croatia, and continues to appear to the citizens that both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all institutions of the Republic of Croatia do little to prevent air pollution in Slavonski Brod, caused by the work of the oil refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose owner is Russian origin to say, and it also supplies oil from the JANAF pipeline, so via the Republic of Croatia. Now, since this material provides for the operation of the following activities, so the production of oil derivatives, the transport of oil pipelines, exactly what I said, is also specific to JANAF, then the transport of oil derivatives to products, trade in large oil products, retail trade, storage of oil and oil derivatives and trade, intermediation and representation of the oil and oil products market. To this end, it is intended to build significant storage facilities, requiring time and considerable financial resources. These financial resources are projected at an amount of €1 billion. I'm interested in gentlemen from the ministry, from the government, where it is, whether there are projects to build, or whether they are already in the construction phase, these capacities. Furthermore, whether these capacities are designed and exist is clear that there must be an environmental impact study. Who's the investor for these facilities, for the storage of oil? And where are they? It is not known to the Croatian public. It is no military secret, as it would say, it is not top secret, that Croatian citizens must know. In order to know this, there is also one news, though unverified to the end, but I must say that despite the existence and operation of the oil refinery in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which poisons the air and the environment, so Slavonski Brod is also planning further construction of oil plants and pipelines in the area even the town of Slavonski Brod. To this end, the company was also founded, given the consent of the Ministry of Construction for the establishment of the company NESTOR Adria, which is called in Slavonski Brod and Zadar, which will carry out the pipeline from Russia towards, through Republika Srpska, so according to the Bosnian Ship, further towards Zadar. In Slavonski Brod alone, the pipeline should pass through the water protection area of Slavonski Brod. I ask you gentlemen from the ministry and projects like this that, for which I really don't know if there's any excuse, there may be an economic one, but Slavonski Brod turns into an oil hub and a city where it's going to have to walk with a gas mask, not to say by the military as the gas mask is spoken, it really doesn't make sense. Or we'll all move out there. I guess we'll come here to Zagreb, fresher air here. So about the price itself, about the pre-election campaigns in which the oil price was like a pre-election asset, and then she said it was 4 kuna during the time, 4 and a half during the late Ivica Racan government, and then she jumped to 6, and then we said it was a 50 percent increase, and then she reached 10 during the late Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, now close to 10, etc., these are games that Mr. Maric talked about, and the impact and the world market, but also thieves and crime that worked at the domestic oil company, which, in the end, slipped a little bit into the hands of the neighbours, if we think the neighbor would be better in charge of our oil industry than we ourselves, is hard to believe. For this reason, since it is also about European Union directives, we also thank God for all the directives, without discussion, without debate, we did not have to have a debate today, because this is a directive of the European Union, one of the conditions for accession to the European Union, and we don't really know any other way, but that we first send materials to the European Union for each law, so if they estimate that this is good, that it is not contrary to their rules, regulations and interests, then we adopt it. So we adopt and here I see after the debate and this bill, even though it is connected and we will see that, later it will prove to be related to a lot of what some parts in the Republic of Croatia actually don't want, and what they don't do well. If there is an oil terminal on Žitnjak, if there is an oil pipeline in Slavonski Brod passing through half of the water protection area, where the town of Slavonski Brod is supplied with water, and which is included in the master's water supply system, eastern Slavonia, then why. Well, water is a strategic interest after all, and it'll be more expensive than oil, trust me in another year. We don't count on it, especially on citizens' health. The HDSSB club will be, although I am not speaking on behalf of the club, but will personally be restrained on this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66770	Thank you. At 10 and 41 minutes, it's past 10 minutes. We have two replicas now. First Mrs. Representative Karolina Leakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66771	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Grubisic and counterpart Petir therefore warned about the ecological disaster of bitches already taking place and happening in Slavonski Brod, and we heard that this morning in the refinery of the Bosnian Ship there was actually an explosion, there was a fire, several workers were injured, but citizens and citizens of Slavonski Brod are therefore also alerted by their initiative, but also by the mayors that they are actually doing a little work at the government level, at the level of resolution ministries, so in order to find a way that they are not actually inhaling open money anymore, because in the past year they are being exposed to the oil refinery in the Bosnian Ship, so in the neighbouring country, multiple amounts of hydrogen, sulphur dioxide and benzene, which means that they are exposed to systemic poisoning. What I am interested in, however, and for this reason I have also asked a written parliamentary question to the Prime Minister these days, how it is possible that, allegedly, the media reported by the state-owned company JANAF, so owned by the Republic of Croatia, is currently delivering 1.4 million oil to that same refinery. This means that it contributes to the systematic poisoning of citizens and citizens of Slavonski Brod. I know that Ms. Kosor, therefore, in her own time in the 5th election unit, was the first on the HDZ list to show extreme concern for that part of Croatia, since I no longer know that it is no longer her priority, but I would certainly appeal from this position and from the Croatian Parliament to finally make something more happen than sending diplomatic notes. So, if all the ministries really were involved, Mrs Kosor and the entire government would be involved in order to solve this problem in the long run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66772	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66773	Thank you, colleague. You see, the Bosnian Ship refinery existed before the war. So she worked before the war also in the same place. However, by launching production in a refinery in the Bosnian Ship 2, 3 years ago, this is exactly what happened. So, there's something wrong with it. That something is wrong is also saying secret information that the Panchevo refinery also owns the same owner or group produces similar effects according to Panchev. It's not for me to say so much about what's happening now in another country, but it's both in another country, there are indications that in the refineries and the Bosnian Ship and Pancheva are produced and many other things and derivatives that are not only oil and oil derivatives, gasoline, etc. And I don't want to disturb the public, but there is such information, unconfirmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66774	Thank you. And Mrs. Mariana Petir, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66775	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, you were talking about the inactivity of government and state bodies, I don't think that's fair, because you know, for example, that the measurement station in Slavonski Brod is the only measurement station in Croatia that is financed entirely by the state. The reason is that the town of Slavonski Brod deleted from its budget an item to co-finance the construction of this measuring station so the county could not close the entire financial structure and then the Environmental Protection Fund supported it, in contrast to us in Sisak, which we co-financed all our measurement stations. So, to say that the government, the state government does not care about the citizens of Slavonski Brod is not well, it is inappropriate and it is not true because I can give you several pages of the print that we have tried together with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Brod-Posavia County to make contact with the relevant authorities in BiH at all. And I mentioned, here, with the support of the President of the Parliament, where we contacted their parliamentary assembly because it is not just a matter of air pollution in the Bosnian Ship, the problem is the construction plan of hydropower plants that will endanger the entire Neretva Valley. So there are a lot of open questions where we need to talk as neighbors. We didn't get an answer until today. We can't solve the problem ourselves. In order to solve the problem, we need an associate on the other side. Unfortunately, that answer does not reach us. I share your concern about the quality of the air in Slavonski Brod and of course we also needed a measurement station to prove that we have a problem. We have now proven this problem and based on it we have launched many initiatives. Here, here and you and other colleagues who are from that constituency, but also those who really think it's necessary to save clean air, and I think we're all on this trail, please get involved to try to solve this problem together. Fortunately in the accident, here is the explosion that occurred in the refinery of the Bosnian Ship this morning, that such wind currents, i.e. the roses of the winds, are not to smoke on our side, so the measurement station has not recorded pollution, but we know that these pollutions are happening and that we really need to take all possible measures to take with our neighbours to sit down at the table and to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66776	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66777	I'm glad Mrs. Petir that you're so worried that you've become an attorney for the Croatian government and Prime Minister Kosor, although I wouldn't expect that, would I? Namely, the air, Croatian waters which, Croatian waters, Croatian waters, are the same analogy is true of Croatian air. It's not the air of Slavonski Brod and the citizens of Slavonski Brod, it's the air above the Republic of Croatia. That is why the Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide at least a measurement station. The measurement is only measuring, not cleaning the air. So this measure is just one, let me say, preventive measure that here, which can determine the amount of harmful particles and substances in the air. But, therefore, only the treatment of the resulting condition for self-recovery has done nothing. I repeat again and I will repeat again until something is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66778	Thank you. And on behalf of the motionary, Mrs. Natasha Vujec, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66779	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you, honourable MPs. Thank you for your discussion, thank you for the questions asked and for the questions asked here, and I will try to answer them in short lines and explain a part of the problem relating to oil and the oil economy. The oil industry is indeed one of the most powerful or one of the three most powerful industries in the world, and as such it certainly has an impact on every country, on every government, on politics, and on every individual. Without further ado, everything you said is true, but unfortunately we as a country where oil is produced in a 17% share of our total needs are difficult to produce with our production, I speak oil, only oil, we can create some criteria and set some thresholds for the prices at which our consumers can use that oil. So on this point, I would like to comment briefly on the question raised about the price formation and the comparison of prices on the market today compared to 2008. The issue is asked daily by journalists, the media is interested and ultimately never utters an answer. The answer is that the price in 2008 of oil was far higher than it is today. So she was 40% higher. She's reached $140 a barrel, unlike today when she's at about $100. But the formation of prices in kunas depends not only on the price of oil and the price of quotations of petroleum products on the Mediterranean market but also on the rate of dollars. And in this part, one of the key elements was really a dollar course, so if we remind ourselves, I'm saying it now, you can check on the exchange rate, the exchange rate was 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 on average, unlike today when it's ranging from 5.5 and 5.7. It is one of the key factors that affects the formation of the price of derived products in kunas. If we were to compare product prices in dollars, then this picture would be more clear and comparable to price developments and price formation under the existing rule on the Croatian market would be more transparent, so there would be no such diversity and differences that we are talking about today. It was also a matter of prices in the context that when prices in the Mediterranean grow in Croatia, the prices of derivatives rise strongly, and when the Mediterranean falls not to fall in Croatia. This should also be taken with a certain delay, the average price increase in the Mediterranean over the last 6 months was over 25%. During this same period for the past 6 months in Croatia, according to the rules on the determination of oil derivatives prices, prices, depending on the type of derivatives, have increased 8 to 14%. Almost 40% lower than the Mediterranean increase. So one of the answers is that when prices fall that the same happens with regard to the Regulation a smaller drop, but there is no need to achieve a greater drop when priced maximums that were on the Mediterranean have not been reached, but in any case prices depend on the quotation on the Mediterranean's exchange rate and are subject to the Regulation and are determined and published. But it's something that's not a matter of discussion, it's exact figures that we all here present with little goodwill can calculate. So I wouldn't comment much on the prices anymore, or I'd just like to briefly comment on some of the changes that the new Price Regulation will bring. The new Regulation will not be any different from the logic contained in the existing Regulation. And according to the new regulation, our intention is to determine that prices are being set every 14 days as they have been. These prices will be determined according to the quotation as so far and the Regulation will determine the maximum possible price that will be available on the Croatian market, the same as so far. The regulation will enable or intend to further enable price changes, meaning on a daily basis but de facto this is already possible today under the Regulation, except that it is not acceptable for distributors because any price changes are caused by a large cost. A natural person must cross all the petrol stations and bazaarize and coordinate the measurement sites at the gas stations where we pour fuel. For example, this cost is not acceptable to distributors, so they do so every 14 days as prescribed by the Regulation. However, the idea we should introduce and this idea is related to the third package and to the liberalisation of the energy market, to increase one competence and competitiveness between distributors on the market and to practically enable them to develop different prices. Our idea may be to exempt this Regulation from the prices of derivatives on highways and on the ports of nautical tourism because there is no need to limit in some way price formation in the ports of nautical tourism, which is ultimately one matter of debate, but ultimately one of our proposals will go in this direction to port nautical tourism and highways have the possibility of free price formation, and that all other prices will be formed according to this Regulation which determines the maximum price. In this way we will assume, given that there will be a slightly different calculation of all costs which are currently recognised by distributors to achieve something more competitive for the public especially in rural areas. Here are some ideas that we are considering, which are on the trail of what exists as market mechanisms in the countries of the environment and the European Union. The third question was the storage capacity issue, and the energy strategy issue. So this directive that we are harmonising with the current law was actually adopted at the same time as the Energy Strategy, so that the need for these storage facilities as far as I am aware was put into the strategy. Maybe she wasn't very apostrophe and she wasn't the subject of any major debate but she is certainly part of the strategy. Building storage facilities is something we are certainly required to create the basics of security of oil supply in Croatia and that is our obligation. It is our obligation that we have security to meet our needs because it is the only way we will not endanger our neighbours, and in the event that our neighbouring countries are in a situation of security disturbance, then we can help them, and that is the foundation of solidarity which is the light motive of all these directives, and even for many other resources not only for energy, in this case we are talking about oil. As for storage facilities in Croatia and which investors in storage facilities, what we are talking about today and what we are talking about today, it is a harmonisation due to the needs of the HANDE investor is mostly Handa. The investor is HANDA directly and for storage facilities that it plans to build on two terminals are Gaženica and Brižine. For these two HANDA terminals, it intends to build storage facilities for the purpose of preserving mandatory oil and derivatives and practically both projects are publicly available, they are in the catalogue of projects adopted by the Government, and these two projects are also candidates for co-financing of EU structural and cohesion funds, so they are practically in the process and are also known in the EU. Besides, there was a reference to Cereal, transactions were mentioned, I don't see any problem answering all these questions. And as for the Horseman, that's where Handa intends to build storage facilities. JANAF commercial capacity, but it's not the subject of these amendments to the law. In addition, JANAF builds storage facilities in Sisak and Omislja in part for the needs of HANDA and partly for the commercial needs related to its core activity, which is the transport of oil. No oil transport without storage capacity. So all clean as a visitor, it's planned to build 480 thousand metres of cubic oil storage facilities, it's going to build JANAF for the needs of HANDA. About 300 thousand cubic metres for oil derivatives, of which 180 thousand metres of cubic meters will build HANDA, and 120 metres of cubic meters will build JANAF for the needs of HANDE. The HANDA for the construction of its storage facilities is financed from the compensation, and JANAF funds them from the funds paid on behalf of JANAF's capital increase by HANDA, thus the HANDA became co-owner of it. As far as the HANDA's own compensation is concerned, this is a fee which is in line with the fees of all EU countries and, in practice, that HANDA is also an obligation under the directives to be implemented in the price of derivatives on our market. Well, as such, it's not the expense of the state budget. Thank you very much, and I thank you once again for the support of all the honourable MPs regarding the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66780	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide in an hour. I ask the clubs in an hour when we have scheduled a vote on the debated agenda points to ensure presence at the assembly so that they can pass these laws. We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. It was an emergency procedure for P.Z.E. No. 676. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by a majority of 99 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66783	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Act, with the Final Proposal for the Reasons for which we are going to change, which is that from 31 January 2012 imports are subject to the obligation to submit electronic tax applications and reports to the Tax Administration by electronic means. It is expanded so far that we have had to submit VAT tax returns for large and medium to submit all applications by electronic means to those taxpayers who have over 800,000 kuna traffic. These changes are expected to increase the number of applications that have so far been around 10,000 to 30 thousand kuna. I have to say here that so far we have a obligation to file VAT returns once a month, to apply for paid salaries once a month. If we know that every application has over 100 grand, then we know what it would be for taxpayers as well as the IRS. This law is also in line with the implementation of the law of enforcement on the financial assets in force. So in the General Tax Law, we're also in line with this law. It is also prescribed to authorise the head of the tax authority to make a decision on the write-off of the tax debt which occurred unpaid after the expiry of the period of 4 years, since the date of the absolute limitation of the right to pay for the tax debt. The decision to write down the tax debt must contain the tax debt mark and the period to which the description relates. I have to say here that the current regulations did not have the possibility of a write-off of an old debt but only at the request of a taxpayer. Since we have these major problems, especially the old debts that have been being made since 1994, especially for local taxes, we have also the requirements and units of local administrations and self-government to go to these notes and now we are introducing that possibility, so that we can settle these large old debts that are more non-refundable. It is also more precise to establish the obligations of the Tax Administration relating to the exchange of information between EU Member States on paid savings interest, and to conclude the application of five information exchange agreements to be concluded with the EU, the Swiss Federation, the Republic of San Marino, Andorra and Monaco and the dependent areas of certain countries, all in order to comply with Council Directive 2003/48 of the European Community and Council Directive 85/611 of the European Community relating to the exchange of information between EU Member States on paid savings. Also due to compliance with the provisions of the Criminal Code, it is precisely determined who conducts the infringement in the first degree and makes a decision on the tax offence. It shall also be prescribed to the Minister of Finance for the adoption of the Regulation which will elaborate on how electronic communication between taxpayers and the tax authority will be developed. In addition to these several areas which Mr State Secretary has also stated that the obligations of the Tax Administration relating to the exchange of information with members of the European Union on paid savings interest and signed five agreements of the European Union with other countries are more precise. It lays down a more important and harmonizes the provisions on the implementation of the implementation of the financial assets and harmonizes with the Law on the implementation of the budget implementation. It harmonizes and introduces precisely, precisely edits who conducts the misdemeanor procedure. But what contributes most to this Law is the possibility given to the head of the tax authority for the write-off of the claim after the expiry of 4 years after the maturity, i.e. the deadline for the payment of the claim. This will certainly help to bring business documentation into line, as it has been out of line for many years and does not correspond to the debt of business entities with claims of the Tax Administration towards business entities. And what will make it the most easier for entrepreneurs who are forced to go both physically to the Tax Administration and several times and to submit reports now also by electronic means to all medium and large entrepreneurs from 1 January 2012, but also entrepreneurs who are value-added taxpayers, and annually have delivered goods and services of more than 800,000 kunas to submit applications by electronic means. This will assess the impact of such a single and legal provision, that at least thirty thousand economic operators will be able to submit their reports directly to the Tax Administration by electronic means. As a result of this above, the HDZ Club accepts this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66784	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66785	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. At first, I would say that the SDP will accept this bill with the view that when certain changes are introduced, it would be a good idea to move on, to take advantage of the moment, and perhaps I would say in part and the progress of technology to improve the work of both tax administrations and facilitate the work of taxpayers who are taxpayers. We do, of course, have certain objections to the law, and if it is possible for them to change, and it would be good. It's primarily about this amount of 800,000 kuna. The question is, can he be smaller? The secretary of state said there are about 30,000 taxpayers. The question is why not just the value added tax bonds go in. There are also bonds that are not in the value added tax system, which generate revenue of more than 800,000 kuna. We could have put them in there, too. It's of course related to some pharmacies, doctors, dentists. So there are those who could also be covered by this reporting and not included here. It also raises the question of why this amount is set at 800,000 since it is a technology that does not require too much cost. It could have been lower because of the comprehensiveness of the records and simplicity of the whole procedure. It's another thing. We are absolutely against the fact that in Article 5, the head of the tax authority responsible for the collection of taxes makes a decision on the write-off of the tax debt without even reporting it to any of them. So a man who should keep records and who should in some way be responsible for paying the taxpayer's tax debt will in this case write off the tax debt without reporting to the competent, or the tax authority and thus setting up a possibility for certain manipulations. But I have to point out that it's not good for these things to be defined before the OIB even worked. So it would be good if we had an OIB function, or a record of all assets of income and what the citizen achieves during the year before we bring these provisions. Because now here is the theoretically one tax head or head of the IRS at some point when writing down a tax debt, not having to have any information on whether this person or someone who requested a write-off may have a property in another part of Croatia. So there is no systematic record, and it is bad that we enable and facilitate the write-off of tax debts without certain preconditions to do so. That is why an amendment has also been made to the effect that, if Zgrebec colleagues are to write down a tax debt that, at the very least, the reporting process must be more transparent towards the top of the IRS. One thing that is also of principle nature and we are not satisfied with, and when we talk about the General Tax Law, it must be noted. If we go online, then the electrical form of communication of the tax administration's application is the question why is ignoring the possibility that there is already a more systematic organisation of the Tax Administration and according to one segment I would say, which is the issue of an account, account records in certain activities. There is a possibility and it will be one of the proposals that the SDP will support that the Tax Administration is so organised that it is not possible if you have executed the service you sold the goods, and you are working in retail, that if you issue an account that it is not possible that it is not within that time limit, or at that time recorded in the Tax Administration. Pre-conditions exist, technology has progressed. Everyone has less technological opportunities to do that. But we don't do anything about it, and there's a lot of tax evasion in that segment. This is what I would say in activities of course of service, tourist activities, somewhere and in part of the retail sale of bakery products, so big money is being turned there, and the tax administration has not provided the preconditions to record these accounts, and to make that tax burden really, and tax payments really flow into the state budget. So we haven't made every effort we can when we charge taxes, as we now see here we're doing when we file these reports. And one more thing that I have to mention here, and it's constantly being avoided throughout this entire term of government, is that it's starting to pay more justly those who have more to pay more taxes, and that it's discharging those who have less, to pay less taxes. Now I'm going to tell you one recent example. We've had an example over the past month, and it's just that, of course, I'm talking about capital gains again, that is, from the value, the growth of capital value, which this government has persistently ignored. For the past month, we have witnessed an enormous increase in the price of the stock of INA, with 1,000 kunas, up to three and a half thousand kunas. 4% of the company was sold and about a billion and 400 million kuna was the turnover of those shares. Since the price has increased by twice, a profit of 7 hundred million kuna paid for by a zero tax. Tax zero is paid. Instead of finally taxing both that income and that value growth. Unfortunately, in Croatia, taxes can be paid by people who have revenues of 2.3,000 kuna, and someone who has earned in this case in a month or more, no matter how much, some funds have bought, some citizens have sold, certainly have not sold citizens who have problems with their own, with covering their living costs, have earned 100% in a month, paid taxes are nothing. This year, value growth is expected, i.e. traffic on the capital market in Croatia and let's say CROBEX is about 30.40%. Again, no one who will earn it will pay no taxes, and that's not done, and again we ask ourselves what to do to finally start taxing those who have more, and to pay what they have earned, not only to pay taxes on people who barely live on a daily basis from their work. The answer is very likely simple, it is necessary to change the government which has been resolutely for 4 years refusing to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66786	Thank you. HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66787	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Tax Administration of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ministry of Finance. So here we have already talked about numbers, clearly when it comes to tax and tax law that they're numbers. The 700 million kuna debt that Koračević spoke of was the first number that was mentioned today as the debt that is mostly for write-off, and here is 100 million euros that have disappeared and are not in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore when Mr. Maras spoke about, in his presentation then he mentioned that there are pharmacies, so masters of pharmacies, doctors private, private, dentists etc. who are not in the system, and in fact whose income is significantly higher than what the tax administration knows and what the tax administration can do. In doing so, I must say that I have spoken to this speaker before, and yesterday it was about the attorney's office to ask the question again, and in connection with the knowledge of the tax administration, therefore including all systems in the Republic of Croatia, clearly related to the tax administration, whether it is ever a court or whether the court delivers the level of expenditure on certain tax administration lawyers, and whether therefore the tax administration can have knowledge of the amount of income and of this category, clearly of Croatian citizens, who should also be according to certain regulations and taxation. So right here there were words that there were no systematic records and incomes and assets, that there was no way of knowing whether anyone, or having, owned property in some other county than the one in which he had the registered place of residence, of residence and residence, we'll be discussing it soon. It is true that in Article 5, there is a colloquial term that the head of the tax authority can make a decision on the write-off of the tax debt. He can bring it. He can and he doesn't have to. What are the criteria, and whether they are prescribed, under which the head of the tax authority can write off the tax debt, there is also a category of deferral of the payment of the tax debt. I didn't find it here. I think it would be more favourable for the tax administration and the state and society if there were such a category. So some kind of delay. So let's say for the pay-offs, or as well as the citizens who have income below 800,000 kuna, as far as it's supposed here for therefore electronic application, the e-investment of the tax administration and there are 30,000, which have a turnover of more than 800,000 kuna, so also their obligations to banks, according to everything in the meals, in the wars, however you will, as well as here I think the tax administration sometimes, I know it can be said to be flexible, but there must be clearer criteria which, then, in which case, can be seen, by which criteria it is, and not only by the head of the tax authority, so the head of the tax authority somewhere on the ground, in some county, is not defined whether that head of the tax body is then due to that decision corresponds to my own decision, so here to Mr. Mlaine, so in the central tax administration. Or it matches someone else, and whether he should be responsible for it, and whether you should have insight into it too, Mr. Mladneo, but also wider. There are very widespread stories, and some of them I checked in the IRS at a regional self-government unit where I live that many people have such privileges and discounts that they don't pay their taxes. Some of these excessive debts to the IRS changed the headquarters of their company and moved it to Zagreb, while others owed to the IRS in Slavonski Brod millions and millions of kunas. I guess they came across more fertile soil here so they could write off the decision of the head of the tax section, so they could write off those debts that they might not have been able to do in Slavonski Brod, perhaps the figures were too high. Therefore, Article 7 also states, which is also interesting, is that if the execution of the tax debt would question the basic living needs of the debtor, i.e. the executioner and the members of his household, the tax may exceptionally be written off on his request. Basic needs of life. It seems that in this society and our country, basic living needs are not really the same. What are the basic needs of life? Not defined, nor defined is the height that provides, the amount of money that provides basic life needs. Is that a minimum personal income? Is that the average salary in the Republic of Croatia? It doesn't say, we don't know, it's not defined, is it? So it's kind of unedited after all, but here's the law bearing the label again E, again here's the requirement, I'd rather say the directive and this much better since the law bears the label E then puts it on the agenda on the vote, and in fact given the irregularities we question as a club whether to vote for or to be abstentioned in view of what I've said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66788	Thank you. An individual debate. Madam Representative Dear Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66789	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I do not have very important remarks on this amendment and the addition of the General Tax Law, and considering that exactly, most of these changes are actually in line with the progress of technology in the administration, and surely we too must strive to do so and make more use of the very technological achievements that will enable us to actually have greater control over the part of the jobs that we do in a particular state institution. So, by introducing an electronic way of reporting taxes, I'm sure that's a good thing. Through this we will probably have better records and avoid those problems that we have had so far in the functioning of the Tax Administration. In fact, all this time, there's also one piece of information that isn't even accurate, probably even visible, that we have a high amount of tax debt. On one of the committees the State Secretary himself said that only at this point will he actually have a complete list of all such debts, from the kind of debt to how long they are. With that, that was news to me because I thought that problem was solved that we still had certain tax claims or para-tax claims there from the early '90s. If that's how it really is, then you have to make that cut and you don't talk about it that we don't have 30 billion or 50 billion or who knows how many. So that one order in the tax records needs to be introduced. However, I do not think it is good to conclude how this has been tried to resolve Article 5. In fact, so far, the write-off of the tax debt under our General Tax Law, which in Article 120 regulated this matter, could only have been made by the Government on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. I think it is necessary to change that because the Minister, or the Government, should not be burdened in such a way that any tax debt that would possibly be written off would have to go to the Minister of Finance, i.e. to make such a decision by the Government. But I don't think it's a good idea for a head of the tax authority to make that decision. In fact, by amending Article 120, we will not even have a record of how many such cases there are. The head of the tax authority is, in fact, the person who should organise the business of that tax authority, who should also oversee the tax order, but also its collection, and indeed there could be certain manipulations to write off, to someone not write off the debt, to wait somewhere for that debt to go out of date, i.e. to obtain these conditions whenever it is possible to write off the debt. I therefore made one of the proposals by amendment to this paragraph in Article 5. It can be so, it can be in a different way, you can actually consider in the government because there are more ways to do it. I think it would be a good idea for the head of a several tax authority organisational unit on the proposal of the lower, lower organisational unit to make such a decision on the write-off of the tax debt on the condition that it is now proposed in Article 5, but that he is therefore not the person who will make such a solution. In fact, a certain record should be kept, that is, that the head of the tax authority who makes such a decision on the write-off of the tax debt also reports to his superior so that in the end, we in the Tax Administration would also have records on which territory and to whom debt was written off and for what reasons. So I think it would be good to regulate it in such a way or similar way, and not that in fact each individual can do so especially because he is an important factor in making sure that there is no statute of limitations or accumulation of tax debt. I see that we are also going towards something that most EU countries have, which is a record of interest payments. This is precisely because in most European countries interest tax is also paid as part of the capital gains tax. So, once again, I would like you to consider whether in this way as I suggested, or some similar way, we are reshaping this proposal in Article 5 of the proposed Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66790	Replica Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66791	You spoke to your colleagues about tax discipline, which is the intensity of this Law, which is certainly to welcome but our law and the bill's proposals must at any time see facts and be just. First of all, it takes one government relationship to the citizens. That the government in the public doesn't see anyone who wants to cheat on the state, but also so that the government itself, the government doesn't have to do with the citizens. So, seeking absolute discipline from citizens, their businesses are possible and fair is only when the state does not owe its citizens, when it has disciplined itself and has fulfilled all obligations towards citizens and economic operators. This way we'll have a good law again, but people won't take it as a fair law, sometimes they get into such hardships, not by their own fault. We are now witnessing that the state is very effective at charging, so those who have had a small trade, who have failed. They didn't have any help, they didn't even get the promised or mandatory subsidies they were supposed to receive or some kind of support, they left not only without their own house but without their grandfatherland, it's not a rare case and it should be taken into account if we're a social and just state.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66792	Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66793	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here, the general tax law has not changed since its adoption and are now proposing its amendments and complements due to the improvement of the tax system due to compliance with other laws, and because of the need to bring Croatian tax legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union and to prepare the Republic of Croatia for full membership in the European Union. Indeed, in order to implement the measures and actions, therefore, in order to improve the tax system, it is necessary to constantly take measures to enable taxpayers, especially entrepreneurs, to meet their obligations to the tax administration more quickly, more effectively and cheaply. It should be pointed out that this proposal for a law has changed and extended the scope of taxpayers for whom the obligation to submit the forms of tax returns and reports necessary for taxation in electronic form is also the most significant amendment to the provisions of the General Tax Code. Thus, in addition to those large and medium-sized entrepreneurs in taxpayers who are obliged to submit documents in electronic form, all value added tax bonds whose annual value of supply of goods and services thus taxable and export deliveries exceed 800,000 kuna. So, the assessment is that around, we will have about 30,000 new taxpayers and I think it is good to go from 1 January 2012, thus leaving enough time for taxpayers who have so far not used the system of electronic application of the tax on adaptation, to equip new technology and to prepare for even faster use of this system. It is certain that the introduction of electronic tax returns, electronic communications will have multiple benefits for both the taxpayer and the tax administration. For the taxpayer, these amendments represent a reduction in the cost of business, in terms of the preparation of work documentation, hours spent and personal departure to the competent administration, in order to hand over documentation, waiting on counters, i.e. in the name of the post office for the purpose of delivering documents to the tax administration. From the point of view of the tax administration, the submission of tax returns by electronic means enables faster access to data, more efficient verification of timeliness and accuracy of compliance by taxpayers and faster intervention of the tax administration in terms of removing detected irregularities and failures in the taxpayer. On the other hand, the tax administration will reduce the working time of the staff required for the input and processing of data that can certainly be more rational and meaningful for other better-quality jobs. As far as compliance with other laws is concerned, I would point out that in order to comply with the law on mandatory relations, the law provides for the occurrence of a limitation of statutes during the duration of court proceedings for the collection of taxes, interest and the costs of the implementation by which obsolete interest cannot be charged from burdened matters. Furthermore, the entry into force of the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation is prescribed to amend and supplement the provisions contained in Chapter 6. General tax law on the conduct of the executive procedure. It also regulates the handling of cases if the procedure for the seizing of money is initiated but it is not completed in a way to start and the unfinished proceedings are completed under the provisions of the existing general tax law. Therefore, there is a obligation by the Minister of Finance to adopt, within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this Act, a regulation laying down the types of tax returns and data relevant for taxation which are mandatory to be submitted to the tax administration by electronic means in electronic form and the conditions and means of achieving electronic data transfer and communication by electronic means with the Tax Administration. Finally, I can say that the adoption of this Law will allow a large majority of taxpayers to implement tax obligations in a timely manner, and I believe that with time and stalking the system, the number and quality of services and mutual communication between taxpayers and tax administrations will increase. What I would like to look back on, and this is the write-off of the tax debt that we have talked about here and under this law is said to be done by the Head of the Tax Administration, my proposal is to see what to do with it, namely to reduce the responsibility of a tax head and to propose a commission that will sort of consider and propose a write-off of the tax debt. Of course, there is a possibility that this could be made public in some way. I think it would be a procedure. We should not immediately consider that if the tax chief has the right to write off the debt that there will be some manipulations, I would rather say that conditions are now created that this is a much greater responsibility. And therefore, if a commission is set up to take care of this tax write-off, I think that liability is also less likely to be manipulated. Here, in the end, I think this General Tax Law should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66794	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66795	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I will only talk about this part of the law relating to extending the number of taxpayers who are obliged to submit electronic tax returns and reports to the Tax Administration by electronic means. In fact, I have no objection to that, but I do support this change of law and I would love it if the system evolved or developed to that level for years so that we, as citizens, could submit our annual tax returns by electronic means. However, the respected secretary of state has many problems. And so far, a number of certain users could or should have submitted tax returns by electronic means and there would be nothing disputed or disputed that the Tax Administration respects the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In July 2006, the government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a document called "Determination and Use of Open Source Computer Programmes in State Administration Authorities", which is actually a state open source policy, the Republic of Croatia has also adopted specifics of the Croatian Interoperability Framework as well as a normative framework. In fact, these documents established the multiplicity and interoperability of electronic business. I know that most of us here colleagues who now talk more or less casually about what I'm saying doesn't mean they probably don't understand what I'm talking about. However, not applying these documents has made life miserable by a huge number of entrepreneurs who do not work on microsoft... to speak here completely open. So, what's this about? Both the Tax Administration and the FINA and the entire system that is related to the submission of documents to those certificates that go through the FINA are exclusively bound in microsoft formats. You must submit the report in Excel, etc. what is the country's established standard through Croatian norms, through an open source policy of government, so where it is shown that it must be in an open document format, so that one company is not preferred, one producer of people working on other platforms that are not microsofts, whether they are on appeal whether Linux users or similar simply are unable to submit their tax returns by electronic means or by tax administration by its inaction or by not applying government documents to a number of business entities that do not work on microsoft platforms to break the law. Not because they would want it not because they do not want to fulfil their obligation, but because the simple functioning of the Tax Administration does not allow them to fail to fulfil their legal obligation. And that's what the IRS is doing according to government decisions. And it's not the only case. I also asked a representative question about it. I got the answer two days ago, and I gotta tell you, the answer's pretty funny. You're saying that for 5 or 6 years the system couldn't adapt to such a thing or that it's not possible, that I don't speak too technically now, that certain codes or certain software solutions can be set up if anything else in a web browser is different than an Internet explosive that is once again a micfosoft product. So this is about a lot of things that are connected. It's also connected to FINA's certification because this involves electronic signature. All those documents, or keys, so to say, that the FINA that is necessary for electronic signatures or e-cards are also not adapted to other systems, but is it a microsoft. Now if we believed in coincidences in the Republic of Croatia then we could believe that it all happened out of ignorance, out of the line of less resistance. However, colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state, I don't think anything happens by accident in our state, so neither does it. In order for the picture to be complete, I think I need to know together that it's quite interesting that the biggest supplier is actually the only supplier or almost the only supplier of microsoft body equipment for the state administration. We are talking about hundreds of millions of kunas annually is exactly a company where the deputy chairman of the Supervisory Board is the new adviser to Prime Minister Kosor. Is it by chance colleagues and colleagues, that our government authorities do not apply decisions by means of an open code policy, thus forcing people to break the law specifically here in the e-tax because they cannot submit them on their own documents, because they simply have the right to use other information systems, and the whole story is actually closed when we know that we have one firm, one supplier from which we pay hundreds of millions of kuna and that is, quite accidentally, Prime Minister Kosor's adviser. So the law isn't good. It is good to allow entrepreneurs and citizens to make tax returns and other jobs from the country work in electronic format, but Mr. Secretary of State if you don't want to do it by 1.1 next year, or something earlier, so that people can prepare reports, do it and program it so I can say the system in such a way that users on Linux platforms and Apple users can use it, or that you don't prefer one producer and one company, and you've been doing it systematically for years, I think the whole story will fail in water, it gives a bad picture of you, too, because you don't respect the first decisions of your own government, but I think it also gives up a bad picture of the state. Many developed countries have moved on to open formats, many large cities function exclusively on how to say in the software solutions based on open source, they are significantly cheaper than licensed. We give hundreds of millions of kunas a year for licenses, we can do without it. They're much safer from that security aspect of computer programs. And of course, if we know this specific Croatian situation where we all know each other very well, and especially those who are highly positioned in relation to the government. So, not only do you disrespect the government's decisions and not only do you benefit from one foreign producer, you directly favour a private company from the Republic of Croatia. So, it's something that I hope you won't do as little as even embarrassingly as you've answered me to the parliamentary question of saying that we haven't arrived in five years, you know we can't publish it,... on your website, that you will succeed in the next 6 months so that you do not really force people to break regulations because of what they have the right to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I repeat, with good regulations and good solutions such as this that a number of entrepreneurs can submit their tax returns by electronic means, it is necessary to adapt the entire system to you in the tax administration, but also in the FINA that does certification in order for people to simply fulfil their obligation, at least that part of the entrepreneur who pays taxes and fulfils his obligations to the state. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66796	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66797	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, although we will support this law over and over again, it should be stressed that this law is another example of how the government declares itself to be a hater of solutions to open software packages and free programs that are often much better than software solutions that impose Microsoft as a monopolist. It's known for example that viruses in the Linux environment feel like Alice in a wonderland. Therefore, the use of open software can, as a rule, only contribute to the security and such transactions that advocates the resolution of this law. transactions by electronic means. In addition, this is also in line with the European Union guidelines which ultimately promoted competition with the directives and demanded large monopolies to enable the equal use of open platform software packages. After all, entire cities, countries, regions have adopted these solutions in Europe, resulting in huge savings in their budgets. Besides, it is unnecessary to mention the situation of the Republic of Croatia and how much this could ultimately lead to savings to the economy, but also to private persons tomorrow when we ordinary citizens can also submit tax returns via electronic means. It is interesting that the government immediately fenced itself from this law and derogated Article 1 and postponed, delayed its entry into force for a year. And moreover, the government says in its assessment of the situation, it leaves more time to the e-Iscen system for possible changes for even faster and simpler use of this system. Therefore, the Government or the Ministry does not even know whether there are any problems but they are yet to be detected because it is likely not or can be read that there is no simulation of any circumstances that will arise during the application or entry into force of this law. It is interesting, though, that the government’s anticipating problems have become so restrictive to the bonds that it is simply unimaginable in a democratic society. Here I quote: "A taxpayer must enable access and download of documents in electronic form stored on his computer system at the request of the tax authority." So, this law can even be considered to derogate the Data Protection Act, allowing it to enter the entire computer system. It is not enough to determine a part of a directory on a laptop or some computer system relating to tax returns and tax legislation, but the government requires that the entire computer system be placed on the tax administration. I don't know if there is such a similar solution in the European Union, I know the intensity was probably in the context of good, but the road to hell is paved by good intentions. It is simply unimaginable that someone, without some authority or warrant, breaks into your house and starts searching your private apartment, but this law allows it to be implemented on the computer systems of taxpayers who, in the sense of this law, will have to file tax returns. You should think about it, Mr. Secretary of State, delay your vote today on this law, correct that statement because we cannot possibly get to the point of creatively interpreting the laws in the 21st century. What the law says, and in this statement, it's simply unacceptable. The law also provides that the competent minister must adopt certain rules within 60 days of the entry into force of this law. The question arises as to what these rules will look like when I repeat myself, the government has shown itself to be leaving more time to the e-Issuance system for possible changes. It means that the minister will have to change this rule all the time. We here are passing laws as a rule of implementing acts which is not bad leave to the competent ministries. In practice, however, it happens that deadlines are far less than those laid down in law and conditioned. As a rule, I'm not saying right now that it's your ministry's case that when it comes to the regulation, you don't consult your waist. This applies in particular to rules relating to technical legislation. And finally, I'd like to point out once again that this is who knows what law in order we're bringing in with delayed action. And it is likely that on 1 January 2012, there will be complete paralysis of the Republic of Croatia, the economy, life, legislation. Because when all those laws that we have passed with the delayed action come into force, God himself will no longer know which relationship they will be in and what will happen to our legal system. So we're just satisfying the form, but in essence we bring one legal entropy and uncertainty to the entire environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66798	Thank you. And finally on behalf of the motionary Mr. Ivica Mladneo State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66799	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Just for a little while. As far as the issue of that write-off of an outdated tax head body is concerned, I'm the only one who can write it off. So I can't write off at those lower levels. So that's another control, that everything that goes from lower levels comes to me in the central office and I write it off. The Tax Administration Act says who the head of the tax authority is. Also at the level of units of local administration and self-government their regulations are prescribed who runs it. So then we solved that problem. It's a statute of limitations, not a write-off. The write-off is one for debts that haven't gone out of date yet. You know how and how it can go. Thus, the statute of limitations can go to the taxpayer's request as it has been, and we have already highlighted the demands of certain cities and municipalities to write off those old debts since '94. For years, and when we go, we'll be sure to inform local administration and self-government units as we write off. As for these tax returns, I would like to respond to the esteemed representative, Mrs Lugaric. Be careful, the tax administration's goal is to allow everyone to submit tax returns by electronic means at the latest for a period of three years. I've pointed out before that we already have 150,000 of those who deliver salary bills, 120,000 for VAT. We'll try to solve this problem as soon as possible. It means there's no extra cost. All I have to say now is that the certificates are determined by the Ministry of Economy and are only issued by FIN. So we're gonna try to work it out. And something else that's important I think for everyone. We will try if not until the end of this year, but by the end of next year when the OIB is operating not to send citizens tax returns, but to send them home as there is a possibility, means to solve this big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66800	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the General Tax Act. It was an emergency procedure for P.Z.E. No. 691, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Dragica Zgrebec. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendment of Madam Representative, Mr. Ivica Mladneo's State Secretary. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66802	Tax authorities are considered by the tax administration and the authorities of the unit of regional and regional self-government, meaning cities and counties that determine taxes, we know that yet a certain number of cities and counties themselves register and determine tax collection. As this is about write-off and old age, only after the expiry of an absolute age of 4 years, does it mean that... Ten years, 14 years, where we're 6, 10 years old. As well as decisions by the leaders of the bodies making certain decisions are prescribed by the regulations and reporting after those decisions that we have to make, so cities and municipalities will prescribe reporting after the decision has been made, therefore we do not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66803	So the amendment was not accepted. Please, Madam Representative, here you are, Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66804	In fact, I believe that the head of the tax authority should not write off, should not have the opportunity to write off the tax debt because he is a person who is obliged to organise such a tax administration to keep it minimal, or to monitor it, and not that there is the possibility that sometimes because he is not charged or do not take measures to become obsolete or to achieve this condition that the tax can be written off. Already, we have so far had that defined by law, that only the Government of the Republic of Croatia has such a possibility on the proposal of the Minister of Finance and that is why I ask to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-01-28-0.u66805	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the General Tax Law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of the vote 91 votes for, 6 abstentions and nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen, this week we have completed the work of the Parliament, I announce that on Wednesday, February 2nd, at 9:30 p.m., the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Real estate Taxation, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 677 and then goodbye and get a good rest this weekend. Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. I hope we had one pleasant weekend all of us and we were resting so today we continue with the session and the item of the agenda that has already been announced, which is - The final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Real estate Taxation, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 677 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and MP Ljubica Lukačić. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Ivica Mladneo. Here you go.
