ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72655	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So we have a regular report on the use of pre-accession European Union programmes, and this report deals with the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010. In the report itself, a review is given to the implementation of the first generation of pre-accession aid programmes, of which CARDS and PHARE are fully completed, and some of the projects in ISPA and SAPARD are still in use. The report then describes the results in the use of the IPA pre-accession programme, a pre-accession programme within the existing financial perspective, and also the last part of the report described preparations for the use of European funds, as well as a description of the irregularities observed during the use of pre-accession funds, as well as the measures taken at their disposal. The contributions given in the form of tables are an important part of the report as they provide detailed information on each individual contracted project. Since the first generation of pre-accession programmes, therefore the already mentioned CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD contracts have been completed for CARDS, PHARE and SAPARD projects, and in the final phase of ISPA. The first generation allocations were agreed on as a percentage exceeding 90%. It is also important to note that all planned projects have been agreed in these programmes of CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD, and all the objectives of the programme have been fully met. Out of the total of 297m euros, 262 and 88.42% were agreed on by the first generation pre-accession programmes. The IPA pre-accession programme, which consists of 5 components, is currently under negotiation and implementation, but what is important is that it is, that the allocations and allocations of funds to Croatia for the pre-accession IPA programme have been made twice. Thus, Croatia received first from the IPA for the period 2007-2009 amounting to 417 million, while an allocation for 2010 and 2011 was made at the beginning of this year of 331 million. Therefore, in this report, the most and most detailed fact is about the 2007-2009 allocation, because the 2010 and 2011 allocation in the period to which this report relates has not yet been allocated to Croatia. All of Croatia's IPA uses and will be able to use it for the period 2007-2011. 749.8 million euros. So let me present with a few sentences the results by components of the 2007-2009 IPA programme, i.e. these 417 million euros. As for the first component, the deadline for the first component has expired and the use of funds from the first component has reached 92.22% and 39.9m euros for the first component has been agreed on by 36.8. For the other components, from component 2 to component 5, the agreement is ongoing, and the level of use is constantly changing, so that already today compared to the information contained in this report, the level of contracting of use of funds has already increased. In the transport component, the first infrastructure projects were agreed, it is a signal system on the main station of Zagreb, and on the date of this report the use of the transport component was 17.7%. Meanwhile, it is prepared for tendering for the Okucani-Novska railway, worth 40.1m euros, so that by negotiating this project, which we expect in the next few months, the use of the funds will be 81.4% in the transport component. By the end of last year, the project Slavonski Brod, the project Drniš, and during the negotiation process was the Knin project, so that the percentage of the agreement on 31.12 was 16%, while the project Knin was contracted, so that today the level of utilisation is 29.29% and the project for waste management of Kaštijun and the project of waste management of Mariščina. By negotiating these two environmental allocation projects will be fully used during this year. The Regional Competitiveness Programme deals with smaller projects, projects in calls for tenders, which are designed to boost the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, and the regional project, in fact the component of IPA 3C regional competitiveness is also a segment of pre-accession funds that can be used through these projects by invitation competitions and by economic operators themselves. The use rate of component 3C per day of 31.12.200 was 44.7%, and to date it has been increased to 48.5%. In the fourth component – Human Resources Development was used at 31.12%, and so far it has increased to 71.17%. All of the above listed components of the IPA programme are executed in so-called The "supervised" implementation system means that the additional control of all projects, all project documentation, all tendering procedures, all election results in the tender procedures to carry out this additional control once more by the European Commission Delegation, which, of course, affects and needs time for the projects to be negotiated and put into the implementation phase. The last component of IPA's IPARD program, however, is implemented in so-called "extended" management system means that there is no ex post control of the delegation in the IPARD project, neither ex post or previous control of the European Commission Delegation. The IPARD Croatia manages fully on its own, however, it also meant that preparations for obtaining permits for this kind of management lasted relatively long. And the Ministry of Agriculture, which implements the fifth component of the IPARD programme, could only start using these funds at the end of the first quarter last year. It is precisely the way in which the IPARD project was managed, or the time it took for the Ministry of Agriculture to get permission to manage these funds on its own and meet all administrative requirements necessary for that purpose, which explains why the current percentage of use in the IPARD is lower than in the other components. What is important to emphasize is that the Ministry of Agriculture is precisely in the phase of intensive publication of competitions under different measures for IPARD. One additional will be published in May, then June in the month, and thus certainly during this year, the percentage of the use will increase. Finally, preparations for the use of structural and cohesion funds are being implemented in all ministries designated for the future use of these funds. In the field of transport, environmental protection, water, project applications to be sent for approval to the European Commission during 2011 are being prepared to negotiate immediately after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. The first application and first project in the area of railways – railway line Long Selo-Križevci worth 198m euros has already been delivered to the European Commission so that we can say that the first project for use from European and structural funds is ready. An application for the construction of road infrastructure – Vučevica-Kaštel Kambelovac road node worth 148m euros was also sent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72656	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms. Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72657	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. So here's how complex the use of European funds is, and in fact, every new report we get in Parliament is getting more and more complex for six months, and I think that what can be read especially in the habitual part, so concrete information about concrete projects being conducted or driven by boredom is the best denial for those who sometimes have little doubt that there is little work in Croatia, that it is a little bit used or that we are not prepared enough. So, an extremely complex area in which a lot of work is being done, in which every year we have an increasing number of people, and in fact, as the Minister said at the end of her debate, only real challenges in terms and people who will be working on this big job, but also the number of projects that will come just waiting for us in the structural and cohesion fund. This latest report on the use of pre-accession funds provides a very detailed and reviewed insight into the most relevant information on the current programme use and on preparations for the use of the EU Structural and Cohesion Funds. This report reads how a very strict record of the state of implementation of each programme and project is kept in line with the monitoring criteria, as is common in the methodology for monitoring the use of EU funds in the European Commission. They shall be accompanied by the relations between the total allocations and their relationship to the contractual assets as well as the ratio of the contracted funds to the total paid. And that is how for the first generation of EU funds CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD as we have heard some more payments happen and some work on ISPA and SAPARD programmes, and so on for the second generation, i.e. for the IPA that Croatia is using to join the EU. However, on the occasion of the assessment of how successful we are in the use of funds it is essential to take into account the complexity of this reporting matter and the fact that final assessments can only be given to the court in the long term. Namely, from the time when each annual programme for each component is approved to the time when works and services are carried out, collection and possible establishment of irregularities in implementation may take 8 years or more. For example, in this report that we have in front of us for the CARDS in 2003, for which all payments have been completed long ago in this current report we have some modified amount of total paid funds. It has been reduced by the amount of irregularities identified in 6 projects requiring reimbursement of funds. Although it is a relatively small percentage or amounts to be returned it is important to stress exactly the role of control in the use of funds that has become increasingly significant and which has been particularly intense in recent periods. This must be taken care of by all involved from preparation to implementation, to supervision and end-users because I must mention that the Court of Auditors of the European Union has the right to control projects and for another five years after all payments per project have been completed. With regard to the measurable measurable results which can be assessed in full terms, the use of the first generation of EU funds is very good with the exception of the SAPARDA which is lower and which is explained by a much more stringent procedure than in other programmes of the same generation, the SAPARD is the only and later IPARD in this generation as if we are already members of the European Union, the structure and number of users but there are other reasons for less success that have in a very similar way reduced performance in all other countries that have used the SAPARD programme in this phase. There is one unpreparedness and fear among potential users as regards meeting the criteria, it is a smaller user, it is a weak capacity to write the projects on its own, and with this still undeveloped consulting market. In this regard, I must say that when we discussed the Committee in view of some known cases of fraud from consulting houses in public if you were looking at a report from one of the committees, we concluded that it would be good, perhaps in some way it is not possible to codify the consulting market because it is a private profession, but something can be done which is a practice in some countries, that those who are simply trying to write projects, and they cannot do it on their own, would not be deceived by a black list of such consulting houses. Is there anything else possible to protect these small and medium-sized users I don't know but it certainly takes one kind of protection because we faced this situation that some have absolutely no knowledge and skills in this business, but using the ignorance that exists on the other hand, they simply present themselves taking the money in advance and then disappearing. This is one area where it seems to me that given the amount of money we will be using when we become a member of the European Union but also the number of users who will then become more and more should pay particular attention to this in order to avoid the problem on this plan. So, there are other problems besides the underdeveloped consulting market, of course, given the situation which is in the economy and the poor investment potential, there are other problems, but the Ministry has made one action plan for the IPARD to solve one problem at a time and I believe that some results will be seen by the end of this year, but the problems are not small but I say they are not directly related to the funds but are the result of some of the other problems that we have for many years. When it comes to the use of the IPA program, it is not possible to measure the data in the same way at this time because, as we heard from the Minister's report, deadlines for a good part of the contract and thus for even more payment still continue. Therefore, in this section it is better to speak dynamically or assess what the deadlines are completed for or are very close to the end and to assess the rest in the context of the dynamics envisaged for the implementation of them. And in this case, we heard from the minister that since the time we received this report, some changes have occurred and in some cases have significantly changed the figures we have in this report. I must stress here that in the IPA component the first aid in transition and the construction of institutions for 2007 is all agreed, the contract is high 92.22%, namely the best result in the so-called ". Decentralised implementation so far. Let me just explain the decentralised implementation means that full responsibility is at our institutions, it's only for a while more about ex-ante control of the European Commission, but our institutions are practically doing all the work. In fact, 73 individual contracts have been agreed and savings of more than 7% have been achieved and are now being negotiated with the European Commission to target this part of the savings to 100% of projects. I think this is a good example of how institutions are really ready, how well they do, how they can save. In fact, when you write projects you always have estimated values and those saves happen when you have public tenders, so those who offer best prices and then there is room to save something or to use it in other projects. For projects in IPA in the first component for 2008/9. the contracts are ongoing and no problems are expected according to the current state. As regards the IPA of the second component, cross-border cooperation, I generally think it is important to stress that this part is very often about a large number of projects, less value, but that for the overall use is an important ability on both sides of the border, so it is not only useful to have the ability of the Croatian side, but also for partners we work with on the other side, because as the name says cross-border projects always include both sides. In this sense, it can be seen that we have countries with which we have very good cooperation where usability is practically at the top, and some others have little stopping but I think that since the deadlines for negotiations are expected to be used at a good level. As for the third component of IPA regional development, this may be financial but I would say, in any other respect, probably the most significant component. It includes transport and environmental protection and in particular one relatively new component of regional competitiveness, which has a lot to do with these rights two parts of a lot of large infrastructure projects. I think in their meaning for our economy and for the development of the environments in which they are realized, we don't need to speak specifically. And this regional competitiveness is about something that we have long waited to get in EU programmes which are therefore the components of the city scheme that existed, partly etc. However, to the right extent, this regional competitiveness has responded to these needs, and as you will see the use of this component is already at a very high level. In fact, it is about grants that are mostly received by private companies. So, as far as transport and environmental protection are concerned, when you look at the figures, you can think in the first wave that there is no good result, however, it is done from in any case by several infrastructure projects in which contracts are ongoing and when you practically contract one or two such projects and this is what we heard from the secretary of state happened in the meantime for one project, immediately raises that percentage to a very high level. Therefore, by looking at the current situation and how this process is going, we estimate that this process is very good. As for the IPA 4 component of the development of human potential, it is the same one currently highlighted component. The specificity is that 60% of the funds relate to grants so as not to list which parts and priorities go extremely important at today's point in working to raise capacity and re-employability. And IPA 5, so the IPARD, which was mentioned in more detail by the minister. I mentioned something at the Shapard. So in this part, if we're assessing IPA for sure that IPA 5 is again the most complex and complex part in terms of implementation, but I say since it's working on implementing the action plan, I think we're going to bring some laws here that have something to do with it. We expect that result to be improved by the end of the year. As for preparations for the Structural and Cohesion Funds, preparations are already under way. I think that the experiences that we have gained so far, but that we are also getting from other EU members, are an excellent basis for building a good and effective system. And finally here I would still like to highlight the importance of information and education on these topics which are certainly the sine qua non of good usability of funds both for the funds available to us so far and for the many more significant ones we will have as a member of the EU. Here's the end of one message, so here we're talking about how public institutions deal with this business. I think the assessment in general can be good, but sometimes I have the impression in the public that there is little emphasis on this part, so this business is not only about the state and local and regional authorities, it deals with practically a large part of the Croatian public. I would stress here the need for the first three sectors to be stronger banks, chambers, associations, so that all of them are a little more active because what we need to become and reality. And that's what I'm saying. There are opportunities to get so we have big money at our disposal but we need to be able to use that big money, and I think there's another one besides public institutions there's a responsibility for those who need to participate in co-financing but also for those who need to use it. And here's why the HDZ club supports this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72658	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72659	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Republic of Croatia can no longer say that at a high stage of negotiations with the EU we are Malta not finished with the negotiation process, so we are at the very end of the negotiations with the EU. Why are we doing this? We are doing this for our country's membership which we do not do for Croatian Parliament, we do not do it for Croatian policy, we do it for Croatian parties, it is done for Croatian citizens, means the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because we all believe that it is a membership and that with EU membership we will be able to ensure a better quality of life for our citizens. We are fully aware that as a member we will function as well as the functioning of the government and how well the institutions of the state function. The same way it can go in the opposite direction. EU funds are one of the many advantages of membership. And as my colleague said before, they need to be talked about even more as all aspects of the EU need to be talked about. That is why, given that they are important to us for the future as well as a great challenge when we look at the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, I will hold my brief debate on the subject of IPA, capacity and certain necessary changes. As far as IPA itself is concerned, we personally at the SDP club particularly like to highlight especially during this period of conclusion of negotiations with the EU another component. We believe that cross-border cooperation that opens up the possibility for municipalities and cities to withdraw significant funds for projects in their fields, also further communicate well with Europe to citizens. However, unlike whether we can hold stands or perhaps public appearances, the projects themselves best communicate with Europe to citizens, as citizens in a small municipality or a small town, as I once said, can positively feel the EU's advantages on their backs. We're really happy when it comes to cross-border cooperation. She's the only thing that unfortunately shows us some weaknesses in local self-government units. This primarily refers to financial weaknesses, simply to the inability of many units of local self-government to self-finance an EU project and the need for debt. It also shows us certain discretions where we have units of local self-government that, in human terms, mean in capacity, this job is excellently done by those who are still afraid of it. A similar thing happened in the IPARD that was already here. Unfortunately, we're not happy with IPARD. We had before that SAPARD, the SAPARD had problems, the SAPARD was supposed to be a certain school. We're back in position when we're talking about measure 3 that something's wrong. Unfortunately, in my conversations with a number of mayors and commissioners, it has proved that many simply do not understand the measure, that they were too much of an expectation. When a competition was called for the question of roads, most expected it to be the asphalting of the main street within one place, that they simply did not receive the necessary information at that time or found themselves on what is really being financed. On the other hand, the IPARD in agricultural measures has shown that the Republic of Croatia will have to amend certain rules and that the Ministry of Agriculture will have to apply to amend certain regulations. The IPARD has also shown, as is the case with cross-border cooperation, that projects can therefore be one million euros, that they are huge financial burdens and that without credit or state aid work cannot be done. This is what I've been saying since we talked about IPA, we've heard that IPA is preparing us for what's coming. Now, if what's coming is ten times bigger, it's probably expected to be something more complicated. Now it is time in the next year, year and a half, two years to make certain changes to the system in this matter, especially as regards education, capacity and financial support, means financial support to local self-government units. I have one question for the secretary of state right now. It is related to IPA 2008, 2009, 2010 and EDIS, meaning an extended decentralisation system, an extended system. IPA 2008 as far as we're agreed and if we're going to get some extension of the deadline, extended deadline, given that it's approaching us, and the percentage is probably around at this point, given the report for last year, we're probably somewhere at 50% right now. It means if we're going to win an extension. The second thing is given the seriousness of IPA 2010 and its impact on getting EDIS, can it come with a job that we will have to do even though we still have two years left for IPA 2010, if there can be any threat to funds for 2008 and 2009. So that's another question and that's what the questions are about. So we're wondering if the funds will stay and be available further. There's not much to talk about with component one. Sometimes when you read from year to year, sometimes you find some unimaginative projects, so you... becomes... [[You don't understand.]] e.g. or that your individual agency goes to a second or third time to strengthen your capacity. [[You don't understand.]] And the question that I'm interested in is whether it's being considered after we've already done both CARDS and PHARE and IPA, whether there's some kind of external evaluation of certain effects. That's another question. I agree with my colleague, Pejcinović Buric, about the consultants. I would even partially add here and lobbyists, there are real lobbyists, there are self-proclaimed lobbyists. We are for creating a blacklist to prevent fraud. I recently had a conversation with a chief who received an offer from a consultant house for something that was de facto free on the Internet for 35,000 kuna. So our mayors, the mayors who take care of their local self-government units, may simply not be in this, and they shouldn't be if they can find someone who can help do the job, but then they need to make sure that they are, so the system can't just be fooled and take away their money. So, we are supporters of the idea of making a black list, means that we go with lists of black people if it turns out that someone was cheating or lying and we are to do as there is in Brussels at the end a certain kind of register of lobbyists that will appear in Croatia, which side, which is ours, the closer we are to membership and with the beginning of membership in the European Union itself. As far as capacity is concerned, they are with financial resources, so with the money to be found to help our units of local self-government and good education because this story with IPA, with IPARD, has especially shown that we still lack education. Capacities may be the third key, not the problem, but the question. I can say at this point that when we look at what's coming to us, they're not enough yet. So maybe we're working at this point with 150 million euros a year from the IPA, we're doing 10 times the funding, and we can openly say that we need more capacity. In order for Croatia to succeed, under quotes I will now say, consume, absorb European funds, only talk about future funds such as structural and cohesion, not even community programmes, they only add more to the greater need of the academic community, in... sector etc., we need more personnel and the Republic of Croatia, if it wants to do a successful job, has to hire more people on jobs related to the European Union funds. [[You don't understand.]] At this point, we have already seen discrepancy in the country between the personnel of certain ministries and agencies. I'm going to say it openly that we have one central funding and bargaining agency where people often shoot at work, where there's just too much work, especially in the tendering sector where there's huge pressures on people who work there, while on the other hand we have in the sector, I'm going to honestly say, regional development, when we look at the Ministry of Regional Development and the Regional Development Agency on the one hand, and on the other hand, the funds that come in can't say it's going to be good. It won't work well and there needs to be something urgent done about capacity. The question that capacities are better is, of course, the question of the motivation of employees and the increase of capacity itself. We heard on the Committee on European Integration from the State Secretary that the Republic of Croatia has a plan for the gradual employment of people in order to build these walking capacities and we support it. The second question is the motivation of employees, so here we are specifically talking about wages. On several occasions we talked in this House that the person doing the job for 4, 5, 6 thousand kuna would receive the same job in the private sector for 2, 3,000 euros. And we people get into state agencies, learn their jobs, and then go to the private sector. Recently, if I'm not mistaken, the initiative was that people who work in units to implement the project within the JPP were given something more. After how much I realized from my colleagues working there what a bullet is said because it means one segment of people doing this job should get a slightly higher salary. Suddenly, a lot of people wanted to be in project implementation units no matter how much they knew or not, with people in these units for the implementation of the project perhaps even the hardest. They are the ones who receive a salary of, say, 5,000 kuna, and on their backs most often amount much more than they do in the job description, including the jobs of individual consultants who receive several hundred euros a day for the job. So some modeality must find that we further motivate people to stay in the system. Also in human affairs, I think some state-owned companies are seriously lagging behind. I think the example can be an HZ in which people who are much longer de facto within the HH in the EU programme system have only recently come to certain educations held in SDURF and SAF. So the question to me is, what have they been up to now? So state-owned companies need to take this job more seriously to make it more successful to withdraw funds especially when we talk about infrastructure, and most of all when we talk about rail infrastructure. And finally there are local self-government units. About her capacities, their pardons we've talked about before. There are also already, as I said, huge distractions from those who show incredible art already now and those who are so still afraid of these funds that the question is whether in just a year, two, three, or not I know when the first project is actually reported. I think there needs to be more education and extra staff. Finally, I will only mention that, with capacity building, education and financial resources, we also need certain reforms to successfully withdraw funds. I'm talking about agriculture here. I'll tell you something I already said once. Farmers, young entrepreneurs, academic community are the people who can profit most from Croatia's membership in the European Union. But if we don't do our job well through reform, they can lose the most. That is why we need concrete structural reforms in agriculture. We need a right of decentralisation that will leave more of their money at the disposal of local self-government units. And we still need certain technological preparations. I won't since I'm running out of time to talk too much about it, but I can say that projects I've seen in Slovenia like e-Slovenia, e-municipalities, e-city, e-region have done wonders for success, that is, more successful withdrawing funds within Slovenia. Finally, it will also need to start to think at regional level given future funding and the fact that regions will play a key role in withdrawing funds. It's time to start the debate in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72660	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72661	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes by the European Union, which is the subject of the debate now and may even agree with counterpart Buric that every new report is growing and more complex. That's right with one little detail that the first part is basically a copy paste. Only a few numbers change, and this last part increases where all projects and programs are listed which is good. It means they're getting bigger. In doing so, I would just like to remind myself that, in our time several years ago, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and colleagues from the SDP club, we even asked the government to carry out its obligation, which is to deliver a report to the Croatian Parliament and it is good that this practice is finally established and that this system works. This is well-defined and useful and necessary, because this is not a subject for politicisation, but it is of the interest of all of us and each of us that the system that is provided through the funds, pre-accession European Union funds build up everything that is necessary and necessary, in order to be a libring partner when we enter the European Union and that we can use all those benefits and potentials that give us membership in the European Union. In doing so, I am not only thinking about funds but also about everything else that is positive, which we have already cited in a series of examples and finally what we all know and every well-meaning. Both the answer and the well-intentioned answer is known. Normally, depending on the degree of exploitation when it comes to one general form, depending on the degree of exploitation of the pre-accession funds of the European Union, that this rate of exploitation also gives an assessment of our skills, our knowledge, our willingness, our skills and in the finality and organisation and by vertical and overall horizontality as well as of the countries as a whole in terms of possible absorption of something that we do when we enter the European Union. The minister said in the introduction, mentioning the first generation of pre-accession programmes that have excellent use and should definitely be commended and stressed. However, it should also be borne in mind that leadership in use, that pre-accession programmes were exclusively in the function of strengthening our institutions on the one hand and on the other hand that the whole system was run by foreign consultants. And it's logical and normal and it's expected that everyone will provide themselves with the opportunity and the profit and the ability to break their knowledge into concrete amounts and to support or help whoever needs it. We needed it at that point. And it's certainly a good thing that the use is so much, but I want to point out that it's a big measure, and that's what foreign consultants who have been directly interested in are getting more and more used. Unfortunately, it didn't happen to us with Sapard. At SAPARD, we took less advantage of 10 million euros. The fact is, respecting all the objective reasons, but at the same time, the fact is that we also had parallel funding from our national funds during open tenders for the pre-accession SAPARD programme. That's what we warned, it's a famous thing, unfortunately we weren't wise enough and smart enough to use the potential offered by SAPARD, not only in terms of less used 10 million euros, because through the SAPARD we should have been, we should have played and prepared ourselves for the use of IPARD. The key or most significant pre-accession programme is the IPA, and I would especially like to stress that IPA1 is solely in the function of strengthening institutions, so by analogy and the first generation of pre-accession programmes to expect that segment to be used well and used well, and I have no doubt that it will not be used, I almost believe it, because foreign consultants are also in the interest that the funds reserved in IPA 1 are being used. It is certain that, through cross-border cooperation, IPA2 is relatively good use, and there is a complete observation from counterpart Buric that the other side must be ready to use this possibility. According to this review, it is obvious that when a partner on the other hand realizes or sees the benefits and the benefits of this pre-accession programme that in these areas and good use, we hope that others, where the use is relatively small, will increase exploitation, however I would like to particularly highlight both the skill and willingness and the ability of units of local and regional administrations, because they are directly, they appear in the competition, they are the drivers of project ideas, they are the drivers of communication, which proves that in our municipalities, cities and counties there are potentials, there are people who understand, understand this potential and have knowledge and competences to take advantage of that potential. However, we are now arriving at IPA3 which has 3 sub-components a), b) and c) transport, environmental protection and regional... There's a little different story. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that we are in the operational programme of transport looking at the 2007-2009 funds at 17.7%, when the overall context of 2007-2011 is put in place, which carries 96 million then we are at 10%, and I agree that several strong projects can increase or increase the use of funds reserved in the operational transport programme, but the fact is that according to the criteria by 30.9. we should have agreed on 30%. So we're late. In the operational environmental protection programme, the level of agreement for 2007-2009 is 16.6%, when placed in the context of 2007-2011 it is only 9%. To believe, given these preparations, that is, these projects, several large environmental protection projects, that this use will be significantly higher, but I would like to remind you that according to the criteria, the use per category should have been agreed 50%. Regional competitiveness is approximately in relations that are defined and measured by 44.7. 50% by scale compared to the total in 2007-2011 of only 25% or one quarter. What it doesn't say, and it's not good that it doesn't say in this report, I happen to have one report that's been on the committee since 18 April, which I'm guessing to monitor the use of pre-accession programs, about the use of these funds is the same as in this report, but there's something that's written here, and it doesn't say in the report, and that's the problems we've seen. In particular, in transport, there is a question of the dynamics of absorption in 2011, i.e. the ability to meet... IPA rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's known that the rules... So in the year that those funds are granted over the next three years, you have to take advantage of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We got some funding for 2007, we got it for 2008, we got it for 2009 per year, and that's something to talk about. Not out of bad intentions, because everything we didn't get, everything we didn't use, we lost it, and that's primarily focused on those governing bodies that run certain operational programs. It is necessary to increase the number of employees and strengthen the professional profile, something we keep talking about, in every debate when we talk about pre-accession funds, the use of pre-accession funds, something that is a common knowledge. I admire the people who lead, and at the Central State Agency, and all other bodies, given the cooperation that, to the resistance in cooperation these people have with certain ministries, individual state secretaries by individual ministries. And that's why we were asked N plus three, almost certainly. And the problems of finding and hiring additional personnel, I think that's something that's the perceived problem, but something that's just too bad to waste words. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia doesn't understand, and we in the CNS have been talking for a long time about finding, let's find, in fact, 100 people for 100 projects. Well, normally it's hard to find and hire additional personnel if we don't stimulate them, and it's literally insane to come across such a problem with let's say seven years of experience in using pre-accession programs and prepare documentation for pre-accession programs. The same story is also in the operational programme for environmental protection N plus three, almost certainly part of the funds will be used for this reason, we need to speed up the preparation of the projects for negotiation and implementation, need to increase the number of employees and strengthen the professional capacities. Problems in finding and hiring additional personnel. The same story is also needed in the regional competitiveness of IPA 3C, questionable dynamics, to speed up project preparation. So, something that's a common-known thing, I just don't see why we're hiding the truth, why? All we're not gonna use is the damage of all of us. It's not just the ruling, it's minus all of us. And in the end, I see my light flash, and I got a little carried away with these things, the IPARD problem of Component 5C. Exploitation of everything somewhere between 6 and 6 per piece of information 6%, per one piece of information 7%. Something that carries 102 million, something that is in direct function of preparing agricultural producers, in direct function. Something that simply gives farmers the chance to make the necessary restructuring of their farms because the fact that they are one of the key points and the basis of the Croatian economy and our competitiveness and our identity are only 7% here. Almost certainly, I say again, even though last time the Secretary of State fixed me in the closing statement, but again I am saying and I am really ready and I am willing to offer a bet, we will, given the N+3 rule, lose cca 20 million euros, we will not use them. If we haven't used SAPARD by the end, and we've had 3 years of time, there's no way because the deadline is the end of the year, the end of 2011. This measure 301 that's funny, it's funny what happened to municipalities and cities, 67 municipalities and cities reported projects, almost no one passed. The paying agency shall take the liberty to state the reason, one of the reasons why the programme not accepted is not accepted because applicants will be asked to bring written confirmation of the OIB. Is there a brain and sanity in there? Is there a responsibility for these people? Does he have responsibilities for municipalities and cities that are otherwise in an extremely difficult financial situation? It takes approximately 100, 150, 200 thousand kuna for each project. People have singled out these funds and due to written confirmation of the OIB or, as it says in one city, the applicants will be asked to bring a certified photocopy of the consumers by a public notary. Is there brains and brains in there? These people who have succeeded, who have signed such a solution, play with fate, play with the position of these people in municipalities and cities and ultimately play with the use of these funds. No one's responding. Along with a series of other remarks that we're all aware of and that we're all familiar with. Since we're running out of time at the HNS-HSU club, we're going to support this report, and what I haven't been able to say on behalf of the club right now is what I'm going to say in individual and final. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72662	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to an individual debate, I would like to invite clubs, or club leaders, to ensure the presence of their members at 12 o'clock when we have a vote on the completion of the agenda points, and we will also complete this agenda with new points, and there are plenty of new agenda points, so please, at 12 o'clock, we will do so. I'm asking the clubs to get involved about it. Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one is Madam Representative Tanja Vrbat, please be my guest. She's gone. Madam representative Nevenka Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72663	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here I will at first just because I have heard from HNS clubs about the use of such and such, bad, weak, none, etc., only at the beginning of the opening part to say what the use of the funds is and how it is actually measured to be clearer in the further course of the debate. The use of funds shall be measured by the percentage of agreed projects, their implementation, payments made, but within the deadlines provided for. All other speculations about usability if we're not saying that within the exact defined deadlines it's not good, it leads to negative, different conclusions. Here I will respect, I will support this report at the beginning and commend it because it contains a really detailed display of how Croatia manages funds from pre-accession programmes, how preparations are under way for the use of structural instruments, but also indicates that it also contains irregularities in the implementation of structural instruments. We see from the report that the EU has allocated 1.3 billion euros to finance many projects through various aid programmes over the past 15 years. That from July 1st to December 31st means the period which is also the subject of this today's report at the expense of the National Fund was found to be 47.8m euros for PHARE, ISPA and IPA and 52.56m euros for end-users. In all IPA components, and the contract is ongoing, 92.22% of the allocated funds were agreed for Component 1. So all the projects, I'm stressing here, are scheduled for the program, and this difference of 8% is essentially the difference achieved in the acquisition. IPA component 3A – Transport is arranged slightly less, so 17.4% is agreed. That was also said by Minister Dalic, but more significant developments have been made and further projects have been agreed and prepared since this report was made. As regards the IPA 3B Programme – Environmental protection agreed water supply and disposal projects for Slavonski Brod, Drniš and Knin are up to 20% of the contract. Waste management projects, meaning regional centres are late and there's still plenty of space there, but many activities must be accelerated if they really are to avoid the loss of funds, but I think they can still make more significant moves. As far as the 3C component of regional competitiveness is concerned, projects are negotiated by invitation tenders, so these are grand schemes of smaller projects, and the contract rate is about 45%. The 4th component of human potential development has been agreed on by 66.3% of the appropriations, namely around 25m euros. Component 5. Rural development has agreed 28 projects worth 6m euros. It was more significant to go to dairy, so 8 contracts, meat 6, fruits and vegetables 6, fishing 3, cereals and winemaking for one project, I think that's a little bit more could be done there, too. However, here in this part, there have been a number of administrative obstacles set by the European Union but also part of our administration by embezzling additional, specific, specific conditions that potential users had to meet but that the consequences of the introduction were not sufficiently studied during the preparation of this project itself. There is room for improvement here because not only should we look at the project but its consistency with the strategic documents and the consistency of those at all levels and there is room here that when certain things are defined that can be done in creating the rules themselves, however, the problem is when we make those rules we really have to adhere to them, so the failures have been made somewhere before. The problem arises not only for agency staff but also for consultants who have been in this project, so I do not justify any agency staff but should take a little more care of the quality and competence of consultants that occur in these projects. I will highlight here more significant projects from the Zadar County area. So other than the CARDS for which we withdrew about 7 million euros with SAPARD where we withdrew almost a third of the resources available under the IPA 3C pre-accession programme in the past observed period. The IPA 3C regional development and regional competitiveness were implemented by the Fund for Investment in Science and Innovation and the 2009 competition was approved by 19 projects, 5 projects of a total value of 2.6m euros, one project from Zadar County that was awarded to the Faculty of Food and Biotechnology means the Centre for Food Technology and Biotechnology in Zadar for the project "Višnja Maraska as an ingredient of functional food". The project has been allocated an amount of nearly half a million euros, with the aim of producing two new functional products based on the cherry maraska, and we know that the cradle and the best results really are achieved in the area of the Ravna kotars in Škabrnja. The aim of this project is to also equip laboratories with sophisticated devices in the field of drying technology and bioactive compounds analysis. With the help of the city of Zadar and the Zadar County that have secured space for this centre, this project will encourage the development of scientific and technological research for industrial sector needs, which should certainly contribute to regional competitiveness throughout the region. The next project I want to highlight from this area is the reconstruction of Mašković Han and the economic revitalisation of Vrana settlement in the municipality of Pakostane from the IPA component, meaning the national programme in 2009 total value of 2.4 million euros. The next project is from the IPA cross-border Republic of Croatia..., whose holder is also Zadar County with numerous partners from that area, the implementation has begun and here I would like to point out that competitions are ongoing and it would be good for individual entities to respond to these competitions and to gain some experience to monitor the implementation itself and to participate more actively. The next project is the IPARD, the 3rd competition, where we have one meat producer, means Faleku from Zadar, the amount of investment from Zemunik is 864 thousand euros from which EU support is 324 thousand euros and another project from IPARD is financed in the Zadar County area means one project from the fisheries area. As regards preparations for the use of EU funds, the Republic of Croatia will be able to use the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund, and I will remind you that at the end of 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided on strategic documents and institutional framework for the use of structural instruments defining both instruments and strategic documents and bodies to coordinate payment certification, external audit, bodies also for the preparation of management and implementation. Since the development of the second draft operational programmes defining investment priorities is under way, I would like to suggest that the European Union is a partner to us, so we need to define exactly what we want with our strategic programmes, means certain segments and individual regions, and they will also help us, and not often do we listen blindly, and we do not have to create our own programmes and create this implementation ourselves. So an active little participation in the creation of all that. The European Union, the European Union, is also aimed at making these projects a little better because these are joint programmes so that there is room for an even better organisation and state administration, as well as for preparing for a new functioning, as Croatia will participate on a daily basis in the creation of a common European policy. But that is why we must be prepared, indeed, for all of us, not only the state administration but also the scientific community, but also the private sector, that is, the Croatian companies that, through these programmes so far, should have acquired certain knowledge in order to be as competitive as possible on the European market and that is why the European Union has made these 1.3 more than one million euros available for us to be prepared. A significant part of all this is extremely well used but here is always room for improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72664	Thank you. We have one replica, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72665	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My fellow Members, when you spoke about this report, you also mentioned an objective problem that exists and it is actually insufficient to withdraw funds for county waste management centres and I agree with you here. I'd like to state here what the real reasons are because often the guilt is passed on to someone else. In order to be able to withdraw these funds, it is necessary, first of all, to have quality adequate project documentation, and in order to make a project documentation at all, to determine the location to be drawn on a spatial basis. Fortunately, you are in the city and county that have come to the very end in this procedure, and I believe that these last obstacles have been removed, and you will also be able to run for the funds of the Environmental Protection Fund, which each county approves 10 million kuna to assist in the development of project documentation, which is, of course, a prerequisite that you can run for pre-accession funds. Unfortunately, an example of Sisak-Moslavina County is a negative example where there is still no location for the construction of such a county waste management centre and I must say that I am concerned because here we have a third year in a row have failed to withdraw funds that are secured in the fund unlike most counties, and this means that since there is no location in the spatial plan for which the county authority is responsible, there is neither a project documentation nor a candidate for pre-accession funds, and we ourselves can finance it from our own resources. I'm afraid that on the one hand, we all advocate both nature protection and environmental protection, declaring protected areas that I welcome and advocate. We boast when foreign delegations come to us that we are a beautiful country, that we want to base our economic development on these aspects of environmental protection, and on the other hand we generally act as if we want to be Naples and that we don't care where the waste we produce ourselves will be taken care of. It's not good, and it needs to be made plain and clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72666	Mrs. Nevenka Marinović's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72667	My colleagues Petir is certainly on the units of regional self-government and local units to determine exactly where they will, this is fundamentally the most basic prerequisite that they can move on at all. We're in Zadar County really did it in a pretty good way. We've had some problems about getting conditions, but I now believe that it's really settled now. And I didn't mean in my debate when I said that the state was primarily guilty, but that's exactly the part of the units or local or regional. We have a large number of units that would like to take care of their waste but not with them, not even in the neighboring community, not near, not in their county, but somewhere else. And that's a really big problem. The problem is that I agree in the location, and I'm not going to tell the great possibility that they're going to decide on the beginning, so they're going to decide at the beginning. Now whether it is a large possibility or whether it is but the problem really exists because the problem is working at these levels, and the state then or the ministry cannot go a step further without a quality location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72668	Thank you. At 10.46, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. It's Madam Representative Nadica Jelash's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72669	Thank you very much. Dear President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of my debate, I must and I would like to say that these reports, which are regularly held in front of us, are always crafty, very transparent, systematic, and what I think is their greatest quality and greatest value, is that they are an excellent indicator that we are making progress in this own training for the use of EU pre-accession funds, i.e. how far we have succeeded throughout this period to strengthen our absorption capacity to withdraw European funds. The pre-accession process is, in fact, the preparation for the use of significantly higher financial resources that will be available to us after the signing of the EU accession treaty and after we gain EU membership status. The implementation of the first generation pre-accession programmes CARDS, PHARE, ISPA, SHAPARD has been completed or has been completed at the very end and is particularly useful experience for future use of cohesion and structural funds is an IPA programme because its implementation required the establishment of the most complex management and control system so far. This report made it clear that there are local and regional environments in Croatia that have already managed instruments rather well in the past period, trained in withdrawing money from European funds. One of these environments is always with pleasure and special pride, I also point out to the Međimurje County. On the basis of the data from this report, we see that 4 intermediate companies are grants from the National PHARE Programme 2006 and in 8 cases, grants from the PHARE 2006 programme have been used cross-border cooperation between Croatia, Hungary and Slovenia. The Međimurje County and the Croatian Employment Office are also beneficiaries of the IPA component 4 grants related to the development of human potentials, and two EC secondary schools are beneficiaries of the IPA component 4 grants, which are within the competence of the Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. Finally, we have and this is extremely valuable for two users of IPARD in the fruit and vegetable sector and in the dairy sector. What I want to say further is clear, and this is also regularly confirmed by these reports that the main assumption for the withdrawal of European funds is quality projects. But on the other hand, I would especially like to stress the untapped money distribution system. So such a public administration will convince the EU that the funds will not be misused. And that is why it is true and effective, and not just a declarative fight against corruption and organised crime, it is, in fact, the most important lever in the use of European money, and it should always be pointed out over and over again. That the rules for the use of European money are very strict from this report are seen and any abuse established by any EU Delegation was the Central Agency for Finance and Negotiation strictly punishable and this is how contracts are terminated and funds are sought. The Chapter on irregularities in this report shows that 4 new cases of irregularities identified in the specific PHARE programme were reported during the reporting period from 1 July to 31 December 2010. In fact, it is amazing to me that the beneficiaries of EU funds do not even deliver reports that are mandatory reports prescribed by contracts, and one of the very frequent irregularities is the non-implementation of the education resulting from the contract, i.e. education to ensure the capacity to use the equipment purchased by European funds. It's really something that I don't think has any excuse and that's unacceptable and irrational. And in the end, I will say that the weakest link in project preparation is certainly still a local level and not only because of lack of educated personnel, which is why one number of municipalities and cities have no capacity at all to prepare projects that would compete for European money but also, especially in recent times, because of another problem, which is that there are not enough financial resources provided, and unfortunately there will be no European money and there will be no it if there are no own funds provided, unless there is a secure own contribution. In fact, most of the projects are implemented in a way that, in a certain percentage or overall, such as the IPARD case, is financed by its own resources and, after the end of the project, the funds are refunded to the investor from the pre-accession fund. After a change in income taxation that occurred last year, the revenues of municipal, urban and county budgets have been drastically reduced and this creates a kind of stalemate position. In order for European funds to be withdrawn, they need to be invested, and they are not available. So at this point, we don't have any money for those little projects either. How, then, in the near future, we're going to provide funds for those big projects. Therefore, such units of local self-government should certainly be helped by providing professional transport and by providing financial resources in the budget. So my conclusion is, we need more personnel, we need a lot more education, but first of all, rational guidance right now is a very modest accumulation of precisely those projects that will contribute most to development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72670	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72671	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague you said was just coming from the report, which we do know, to see how we're making progress, or how much we've done. Of course the shifts are every year when we get reports on the benches we see that the shifts are and as you said yourself, someone's been stalking more, someone less. Therefore, the possibilities are large, but precisely the process of applications or complexity in administrative terms, whether in technical terms is large and very often demotive, so we have data that some funds have already been recovered precisely because they do not have the capacity to implement. In fact, the report itself shows that there is actually a weakness of units of local self-government, i.e. the need for borrowing and, of course, for human resources. So I keep my colleagues that there really needs to be a change in the system, whether it's in education or anything. Because if we have problems that are now, which will actually be tomorrow when we look for bigger projects, or project documentation or environmental impact studies, cost benefits or construction relations, all of these permits where we're going to have to participate with 5 to 10% in these projects, or where we're going to have to have big finances, I wonder where and how. So if we're facing problems like this now, what tomorrow? I believe that you really need to go with changes in the system or in approach to preparing for all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72672	Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72673	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. Here is the fact that a lot has already been said about the report itself and the support of the European Union to local units and regional self-government, I will say a few words about this report itself, and more will look back on the implementation of the programme in my local self-government, the truth is a small local self-government in Požega-Slavon County, the town of Pleternica, but in any case it can be an example of the achievement and use of pre-accession European funds. Given that we are in a high degree of negotiations with the European Union and where the end of the negotiations and Croatia's entry into the European Union is near, it is certainly important that this report, which shows that the Republic of Croatia is, in fact, through the display of certain programmes, saying that it has used a really good part, not a good part, but has an extremely good result in the use of these projects, regardless of what we have in certain discussions here in Parliament, had objections that certain projects or programmes have not been achieved, but at the same time we know that it is not possible to achieve certain programmes in a 100% amount, so I am sure that all those who have actually said now see that they are not right. Here I especially want to say that this was an opportunity precisely for small units of local self-government, as well as cities, to take advantage of this opportunity, but at the same time when we talk about Požega-Slavon County, then I only have to commend the town of Pakrac and the town of Plekernica, who can really say of 100% of what was offered, and that we can implement our projects at the same time. Why the other cities failed, especially the city that is very important to us, in Požega, in Požega-Slavon County, I will not talk about it, let someone else talk about it. But I will certainly say that these projects were the opportunity for certain small cities to rise through projects which they certainly are here in Požega-Slavon County, the town of Pakrac and Pleternica to do. Furthermore, when we talk about projects that are already out of place, which are both PHARE and SAPARD and ISPA, the IPA that is now coming to us, it is precisely showing that these projects that were used in the CARDS in the 95% amount, in 2004 94%, in 2005. PHARE 91%, etc. Of course, there were speeches here, and this is what my colleague Maria also said that IPA projects are ongoing and of course I can't even have my own position of exploitation until they are fully achieved. Furthermore, what I also want to say is that these projects have really produced results, and when we talk about cross-border cooperation here, it is also already said and I fully agree that certain projects are not enough on one side only, but at the same time when we are talking about cross-border cooperation it must indeed be a project on the other hand in order for this project to be feasible. We also had a project of cross-border cooperation in the past year where simply with a partner who turned out to be free I could say a little unserious we eventually brought the project to an end, and ultimately we didn't use it because they made certain mistakes. Also, when I talk about my environment and my county, and I am sure that my colleague, Huška, will speak more about the usefulness of their projects in the Pakrac area, which is extremely important for that area, because it is a war-torn area. But for the town of Pleternica, I also have to mention that over the past year we have used and received projects of six candidate projects we have received 5. This is just another indicator, regardless of the small environments supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance and this project that certain local self-governments have taken seriously show that these projects are the benefits for the development of local self-government units. Because if it hadn't been for these projects, I guarantee that the achievement of our goals in development and economy, which will be manifested in the next period of time, would not have been, or would not have produced, such results as they will certainly give. Because if I tell you that in our industrial zone that we have again to stress here with the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia we will buy 30, 40 ha of land today we are building an incubator or a better said technological innovation centre where, through such a single capital investment, we will allow small entrepreneurs who start their activities to give full support and support in terms of their development, in terms of achieving their knowledge. Because we know that many entrepreneurs today who are starting certain activities have no idea how and how to start their activity. So through a center that's going to be 1,000 square meters, we're going to allow these beginners to give them some instructions. This is a European Union project worth 830000 euros and is 75% grants. Of course, the other funds are local self-government funds. We have also participated and achieved a programme of floral futures where we have also received the value of the 108000 euro project and also 85% of the grants. Therefore, it is also one project where, through the arrangement of our city that is already at a high level of regulation through the floral future, we will enable us to employ a certain number of people, to launch one production that will be for the needs of the city, and the rest of the production will be commercialized and will cover the very costs that we have in this project. So, the cost of employees. We also have one project because we aim to follow with the development of the economy and with certain needs of high school since our high school in Požega we also want to do with a primary school which is among the largest in Croatia and to have a high school and to train people for this economy that I spoke about a little while ago. It's a 84,000-euro project. We also have one project called "Industrious Bees" worth 100,000 euros. And, of course, here's what I'm going to end up with, since my time is running out. These are indicators that are just giving us the guarantee that by obtaining funds from the European Union small cities have the opportunity to develop, employ, and this is the best possible way to keep all those young people living in the area. Because without development and investment in the economy in those who are safe and who are destined to stay in their environments, it is our job to through these projects, and through the ministries, our resolute support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and exactly support, because this and the opportunity to use the European Funds as used by other countries has just provided a guarantee that those youngest specifically in the town of Pleklernica, in Požeko-Slavon County, will have a future. And these are the results that I can't give in a year's time, but in the next period of time, it's just going to be an indication that it was a real investment, and of course those who used those funds did a good thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72674	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72675	So here's from this presentation by fellow Lucic, it's obvious that it is very important that the head of local administration and self-government are engaged, as is the case with you. A little while ago we heard that, it's not that important, that you need the engagement of all of course. But without your creativity, without your proactive attitude, it wouldn't be possible to reach these means. So it is very important that local administration and self-government are engaged, and we have seen from this report from this morning's presentation that it is a very heterogeneous picture of Croatia when it comes to local administration and self-government. I would dare say that it depends exclusively on the engagement of the leaders and that, of course, it is necessary to work on it. Surely the funds are missing in the local budgets that need to be invested in this. However, if good contacts are made with the ministries, I believe, and if long-term plans are made as you have said, those projects may not be seen immediately. And we saw you go from economy to education. So, from the high school you want to make to the economic zone. I believe that a long-term plan for the development of municipalities and cities is necessary and that resources can be drawn in this way. There's the same picture in the county. I can tell you about Dubrovnik-Neretva County where we have a very active DUNEA agency that attracts projects and which has been working very intensively in the last two years. We also heard something from our club representative, Mrs. Pejcinovic, about the credibility of lobbyists. Surely lobbyists need help from consultants, but also from the board, we have concluded that references are not enough, that these consulting, lobbying services, or houses, have been certified, because there have been fraud and irregularities that have been heard several times in public lately, and yet because of the ignorance of local administration and self-government leaders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72676	I picked it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72677	What'd you pick up?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72678	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72679	Where are you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72680	You were just putting your head down, Vice President, so you didn't see.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72681	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72682	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague of Shuica right now, since you're coming from a big city in Dubrovnik, which has far more income than, say, these small units of local self-government, we've just been forced to do projects like this in small areas, and I thank today and all of our associates, so who worked on these projects, because if they hadn't been there for sure there wouldn't have been any of these projects. Not just one man is enough, but one must really have a team of people who delivers these results. But at the same time, the law that will come which, and individuals have said that the existence and functioning of the units, such small units of self-government is not good, I say this time is not true, and I am just saying that there was no such programme and project of the Government of Croatia that many units of local self-government, and especially those small ones would not have such development and intensity of the development of the economy, because it would never have happened if we were under the patronage of a big city, at the same time we had this development. I therefore reaffirm once again that these projects of the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have really or will produce the right results, and they will be visible in a short period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72683	Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72684	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, this report on the use of pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union for the period 1.7 to 31.12.2010 comes up with different assessments in our position, of course with colleagues who are in opposition, but I am really pleasantly surprised by the performances of representatives of the SDP Club and representatives of the HNS Club, HSU who have given excellent grades in view of the use of the first generation pre-accession programmes so far. We learned, when the past reports were on the agenda, that these grades were far, far up, that their forecasts of the final exploitation of certain programmes were far more black and far worse, and here today when we got this financial review of pre-accession programs, so we see that the CARDS in 2003 was used with more than 95%, that the CARDS 2004 was used with more than 94%, that the PHARE 2005 was used with almost 92%, that PHARE 2006 was used with 86%, that it was successfully used by ISPA and SAPARD, of course that colleagues from the opposition based on these facts changed their opinion, and I congratulate them on that they did not remain consistent with those black forecasts, because these are data that really talk about the good use of the first round funds before the IPA itself. Today we are offered IPA, meaning a pre-accession programme which continues to finance projects through 5 new components in areas that covered the first generation pre-accession programme, but also opens new areas such as human potential management, regional competitiveness, with the aim of strengthening capacity for future use of structural funds. Of course, a few words like every time we discuss this issue and as head of the unit of local self-government I join the evaluations of fellow Lucic, also mayor of Požeko-Slavon County, where it is visible on the example of our county that unfortunately only two units of local self-government, Pakrac and Plekernica actively participate in the use of pre-accession programmes. Of course, one who actively participates, who prepares, who works, who prepares projects, who achieves results. Here are some information on current projects and recently completed in the area of the town of Pakrac, some are also visible in this report. So it is so clear that from the PHARE 2005 development through the knowledge of business infrastructure, we have withdrawn 642,000 euros, meaning almost 5 million kuna or 80% of this programme of grants for our city, for the management of the access road, for small businesses, that then the small economy zone is filled with more than 90%, that today 350 employees are working in it, to build two new plants, and this is a good indicator of how the funds of the pre-accession fund can be used. In parallel with this, something earlier from the CARDS 2003, more than 100,000 euros to complete the work on the construction of the new Incubator Business Centre, precisely in the small economy zone, which has more than 2 thousand 400 square meters, which today is fully filled, and where, with the funds of the Ministry of Economy, the Regional Development Fund and the European Union's funds, we managed to complete this programme, to achieve a significant project for our city, and it is literally a church of entrepreneurship in the economic zone where the entire economic life of our city takes place. These are the programmes followed by the European Union, and today, when it comes into control of the use of funds, we get full support of course for the funds used, and of course for the projects that are announced. Today from the IPA programme we actively participate in four projects, the Pakrac entrepreneurship centre with the Mavrovic Eco Centre in the use of 75 thousand euros, the Pakrac entrepreneurship centre with the Employment Service through the human potential development programme, a local employment partnership of 72 thousand euros. I'm talking about funds that are non-refundable to users, of course there's always a certain percentage of co-financing. Entrepreneurial centre with the County of Požega-Slavonski, which after reviving the county development agency is actively involved in the use of European Union funds, implements the women's work market programme, where we received 122 000 euros or 84% of grants, the town of Pakrac with secondary school Pakrac programme regional network of local educational institutions 80% of grants or 101 000 euros. And finally, the town of Pakrac with a youth-based business centre on the labour market is 75 thousand euros, 81% of the grants. Here's the result of the work and that's the result of the investment in people. Because without people, without education of people and in the City Administration and at the Entrepreneurship Centre, education which may not be cheap and which perhaps 5, 6, 10 years ago when we started in these projects, in preparation for the organization of the Entrepreneurship Centre, investments in highly educated staff seemed expensive and pointless, today this very education shows that we have invested in people, that we have created capacities that can write a project, which know how to implement the project and which bring significant grants to our local self-government unit. We should, of course, work on capacity building, and we have turned to a new model where from our cities of friends and municipalities in Slovakia, Italy and the Czech Republic we use their experience both in using pre-accession programmes and in using structural programmes where we get their knowledge, experience and all that they have experienced in using the EU structural programmes where they help us prepare certain projects. And I believe that we will also make good use of those experiences of countries that are now EU members. In the end, I wanted to say that counterpart Jelas says local self-government units are the weakest link in the implementation of EU projects. This is one example and this and the Pleternica and a whole series of cities and municipalities that work in such a way that it's not true. There are units of local self-government that are not ready, which is a fact. So where they have small capacities, where they have a small number of employees, where they don't have professional people and where they don't have the money to go into project preparation, and I think there's a significant role and resorient ministries and counties and developmental county agencies to help such small units that are incompetent. There I fully agree with you and believe that knowing the work of our county today and the county development agency is exactly what is happening on the ground. However, there are units of local self-government that do not want to use EU funds, which have large enough budgets to finance different needs, deal with various political activities with these funds and have neither been prepared nor nominated in recent years for pre-accession funds. There are such leaders here today among us, and I hope they will engage in the future. They are willing to criticise the Government of the Republic of Croatia for not helping enough, and when they offer funds of this nature where we can withdraw significant funds available to our cities and municipalities, then they simply do not appear in such competitions. And maybe the opportunity here is that after this report, after these positive assessments from the lines of opposition and the lines of position we all together suggest that such units of local self-government be engaged because the last moment is to jump into the back car. The structural funds are ahead of us. This has been a good training and we who have passed it certainly are one step ahead of others, but we are ready to help both at the Pleternica and in Pakrac and in other cities and municipalities. And we have a rich experience in using these funds, all others who want to learn something, of course for free, with the goal of withdrawing as much funds as possible in our Požega-Slavon County and throughout the Republic of Croatia. Here, I hope that this report will be in front of us in the future, that such high rates of pre-accession use and ultimately structural funds will remain ahead of us. And I congratulate all the employees and the Central Agency for Finance, Negotiation and the Ministry of Finance who are working on these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72685	Thank you. Four replicas. First, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72686	Well, here's a colleague of Huška's at first you said that you were positively surprised by the other clubs, and how if this is not, the figures say everything and this report is really for every commendation because it's very transparent, transparent and simply the figures can't be disproved from the report. As for the education you spoke about – at the end of this report we have a review of all the activities in terms of training and I am surprised at how many of these procedures have been carried out and in fact the problem of the units of local administration and self-government that do not involve and do not want to engage because this is a very difficult job and it is much easier to live on the budget. It's very simple to live on the budget, and there's nothing to be too busy with, so you can't even be in danger of making an irregularity, because we've seen that there are irregularities, but it's the labor pains of every job and so on. But regarding the cities of friends you mentioned, I believe there is one great potential. In particular, we in Dubrovnik have had and we still have cities of friends so several cities from Italy and Germany where we used their not only experience to the maximum but we even participated in some projects with them where we only had 10%, and they 90% were... And I agree with you both as well as with Mr. Lucic that engagement is necessary in the local administration and self-government units, of course not only of the leaders but also of all their leaders and entire teams. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72687	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72688	That you colleagues recognized the most important thing I was saying and the simple concept of my introductory presentation because of the positive one attitude of the other clubs, I had to change it because obviously we're all giving a positive assessment of this report, and that positive assessment comes from the facts, from the figures, from the percentages of the use of the funds so far and the funds that we've been offered. This model of using Western European experiences, countries that are members of the EU, is certainly one of the most qualitative because this is where we learn from people who have worked and pre-accession funds and structural funds. These are the cities, the municipalities of our country's friends, our cities, and there we can really get free of charge of extremely high-quality information. They're willing to receive our people, of course, who work to prepare the funds, there on education to help us welcome the structural funds as high as possible. And what they used structural funds for, I'm just afraid about it publicly, and I'm afraid of talking about it, but it's such an opportunity, it's such huge means that it's going to stand in cities, municipalities, regions at our disposal, and we really have to prepare ourselves well so that we don't all miss it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72689	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72690	Thank you very much. I would like to congratulate you, as well as my colleague Shuica, on you and my colleague Lucić as the leaders of the local self-government unit in the area of Brod-Posavina County and in these exhibitions, but also in the materials that we have received in this report, we see how much you have done to improve the quality of life in your city, your cities, and clearly using all the resources available to us by the EU's access funds, which the state has made available to us. I would like to and agree with you that such a situation is in other units of local self-government, in other counties, and I will agree with those who have said that the problem arises with those units of local self-government that do not want to, and also regional self-government that do not want to use these funds. Because these funds haven't since yesterday, it's been for many years, where leaders of both local self-government units and development agencies have been able to train cities and counties so far and could promote the value and importance of these funds and programmes that can improve the lives of citizens, their counties, their municipalities, their cities. And that's why I want to say one more thing, which is that this kind of report and this kind of debate at plenary sessions is also a message to those who are watching and listening to us, and responsibility and obligation to all the leaders of units of local and regional self-government to act or to further activity. By congratulating you in Požega-Slavon County, I must stress a certain satisfaction with all those projects and programmes that are implemented from pre-accession European Union funds in the area of Brod-Posavina County, of which I am particularly proud of those programmes implemented by educational institutions. These are vocational schools that have been withdrawing funds from the CARDS for many years either from the IPA Veleučište in Slavonski Brod, the Technical School in Slavonski Brod and not to forget that largest project, which is the water supply or disposal project of the town of Slavonski Brod. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72691	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72692	Yes, colleagues, we are close and together we are in Slavonia and we see that it is not working and not everyone thinks equally there are good examples and we should use them and we are ready to help others. However, to prepare these projects with investment in people in terms of human potential required certain resources to prepare project documentation, to build permits, and there was a significant amount of costs which neither my city nor my city, nor from fellow Lucic could stand alone that we had no support from the resolution ministries, from the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Regional Development and to the Ministry of Culture where we co-financed the project documentation, had prepared building permits, had a team that could write the project, report to the competition, and then the smaller problem was to reach funds from the pre-accession fund. Experience in consumption, consumption of these funds, and today in control of all of this are the same value and we are ready to share this with all others who are working today, the business centre in Pakrac was named the best centre two years ago in Croatia and the best business incubator three years ago in Croatia. We have experience we have a team who can work there and we're willing to share it with everyone who wants from our beautiful.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72693	Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72694	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The topic is very interesting, and often when we talk about it in general, we want to make clear what it is necessary to do in order for certain projects to succeed or programmes, especially when we talk about this topic and these are the European Funds. The fact is that small environments often have low capacity, but with more will, more emotion, they have entered into such programs and have been more persistent, which might actually be difficult to conclude, but the results themselves say that it is, and I really congratulate you on that. When we talk about education and preparation, that's the important thing. When we moved into these jobs we almost didn't... people who knew the terminology, the way, the processing, so the time went by who was faster, who had better quality people, that went better in those jobs. This education is a standard job that has not been completed today, nor will it be done all the time while we are actually working, and what should be further said here is that we really need to get ready for structural funds, undisputed for entry into the European Union here, and just such funds are now available. And it is clear that the prerequisite for this is precisely what is important for all development, which is the design of spatial plans through urban plans, ideas and main projects, certain, whether in the communal or ino infrastructure the better, better quality, planned and projected these are greater chances of achieving better results and perhaps in contributing to this particular topic of everyday education and formation and learning as a unit of local self-government or potential investors and investors, and today at 14 am in Zapresic, in the context of the European Week, writes the tribune "Intention of competitiveness through EU funds, and as part of the marking of the European Week" institution for... programme for regional competitiveness. So when we talk about education when we talk about lectures, about education and knowledge, I never particularly commend the competent ministry that has made a special contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72695	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72696	If a colleague, you recognized another important thing, small towns, small municipalities, I would add to that cities with the war-suffering municipalities we were not in the same position, but at -100 compared to others we were simply forced to think in one different way, not only about their money, not only about helping out from the state budget but about finding some other funds to finance the reconstruction, to finance the war of the lost economy, the completely destroyed municipal infrastructure, destroyed kindergartens, schools, hospitals and that pain in which we found ourselves and that desire to stay in the area where we were, in our homes, in our homes, that desire to create our children, all others, better conditions for life simply resulted in maybe a little greater engagement than in some other parts of Croatia where there was no home war, but here it proved that this work was ultimately that we had been well used to build new roads, to build new waterways, to build new waterways, to build new roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72697	Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72698	I didn't mean to report at all in the debate just because it seems not worth telling the truth because it's no use. But given that Požega was called to both Huška's representative and Lucic's representative, it should be said briefly. Požega has about 70 projects, all blocked by the government at ministry level, and what could not be blocked was thrown aside or stolen by letter and number. But I answered simply for the reason that I too would join these congratulations on the deception of my two predecessors from my county, who were so nice to talk to and deceive the public, which is so much of the truth that I just couldn't take it, and that's why I answered. Here, for example. A spider with a small budget draws three million dollars a year. The other day he took out a million-dollar loan not to sue him, 27% took off his salaries to the employees. And let's say there are two thousand 800 kunas in the account today. And what's he gonna do with all that he's saying? The most common lies he could tell.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72699	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72700	Thank you very much. I'm sorry we have to listen here to such untruths from Mr. Ronk who probably got hurt by the truth. And where's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? In Article 209, because a man is truly telling a lie, and at the same time wants to rehabilitate himself through this speech, I am being represented by a representative who comes from Požega-Slavon County and colleagues of Huška because this really is impossible for 70 projects. So I'm asking you who else on the side of the opposition, above all, has 70 projects that didn't pass in the EU. At the same time, not all projects in the EU go well if they did not have a good background for people who are doing these projects right now. And don't fool your colleagues here and justify yourself to the public of Požega-Slavon County because in your inability you have just proved through your work as an agent, while all the years as mayor of Požega that you have really done nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72701	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72702	Yeah, this is a business injury... with Representative Huška. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] And something else when he came forward, all the projects of the town of Požega had to go through the ministry, and in order for the light to be green to be given by Franjo Lucic. We'll wait a little while longer for the election and then we'll sort it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72703	Gentlemen, the main one with the presentation was a representative of Huška. My colleague Ronko, in your replica, you looked counter-businessly and at the presentation of the representative Lucic, so you had a little eye on him. You did not act in harmony with the Businessman, because if it is replicated then it is replicated to that basic exposure, therefore it was not about the injury of the Businessman. Mr. Representative Davor Huška, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72704	Yes, it's strange that Pakrac, with his little budget, can be here in any report on the use of funds, and Požega with its large budget has not yet come to any report since I've been sitting here in the Assembly, and that's one enigma, but there's a lot of knowledge on the ground as well as on prepared projects. When words are spoken stolen, deception, a bunch of false things, so here it says everything in these reports who does, who makes the means, who doesn't work, who doesn't realize any projects and no means. All these programs that go through my city are going through a procedure on the city council. Of course these programmes are also supported by all city councilors who want good city development, that this is supported by the president of the city council who comes from the SDP ranks and where we all want good to our city together, we prepare projects together and we look forward together when these projects are successfully and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72705	Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72706	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. This report is what it is, realistically, gives a real picture of the state of exploitation of pre-accession funds. What encourages it is that there is still some trend of improvement, that year after year, we are getting better from circle to circle, but much more has to be done to improve the capacity, knowledge, skills and then the passing of projects. This is a kind of school for EU membership when we will have to be far more effective in withdrawing funds from various areas offered in the Union. Writing projects isn't a bit easy. It's a hard and demanding job and needs a lot of knowledge and experience. It is unfortunate that at higher universities, universities, universities, universities, there are essentially no or very rare colleges and at the highest postgraduate level dealing with the problem of writing projects either economically or others. Those who have ever written projects know that the EU is extremely formal whether it is about these pre-accession projects or scientific projects. If you don't have a formal impeccable written project, it goes to the first triage directly into the basket. It must not even have spelling errors because they signal a misrepresentation of the institution or person to whom the project is handed, because it means that you did not even read it yourself, let alone miss a speller sugar. So where a higher level of competence, education or familiarity with EU procedures is required, the transition of projects was much, much less. The paradigms are IPhard projects because so far the use has been below 10%, 9.97 and currently in this latest round of measure 301 has not been through a single project even though some others are on some sort of evaluation, repasage or what to call it. They say in this way, the portfolio of finances explains the poor use of this programme by the fact that the IPARD Regulation is the most demanding so the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has failed to formally meet or gather sufficient resources, experiences, etc. So what she was looking for all over 2009, 2010, here we are in shelf '11. A year. This is really worrying that no project for measure 301 has passed. Also, one of the reasons for poor passivity is the fact that public procurement for these projects should be organised in accordance with the principles of public procurement in the European Union, for which we were not prepared in Croatia. So I'm asking why we didn't think about it in advance, why they didn't organize public procurement education, and pre-anticipated the problems that were emerging. We can also ask ourselves if our public procurement is currently in effect, i.e. public procurement procedures in the Republic of Croatia, are they even in line with the European Union when such problems arise, and that the Ministry of Finance also points to the problem of public procurement. So what seemed to be too fast and the principles of public procurement were in line with the European Union. Finally, public procurement in Croatia was one of the wound cancer chapters of the 23-Court. Furthermore, there are administrative obstacles to the poor passing of certain projects because when you need a bunch of certificates, etc. Usually it was in the catastrus, says come in a week, bring this certified certificate, this one, etc. The OIB thing is paradoxically that at a time when any OIB can also be checked through the Ministry of Finance's website to look for a certified photocopy of the validity of the OIB. Well, then it would be logical that the ministry or I don't know which other administrative body, if it's so necessary, that, with those certificates that we've all got at home, then let some kind of ID card be issued that we're carrying with us the OIBs and that's enough identification or sufficient confirmation about the OIB. Yes, and we here in the Parliament are no better because it says that the head smells or smells depending on whether it speaks optimistic or pessimist, the fish smells like head, we smell the same in our documents here yesterday, yesterday we signed some documents as representatives, we are also wanted by the OIB and JMBG. So what's all this data, I think, or one or the other? But neither can the administration be much better in the field if we here in the Parliament impose such actions and obstacles. So as I said, there is still much, much work to be done on education and capacity-building of the absorption of pre-accession European funds, and we must not move into these mild, favourable trends of our projects because compared with other countries that have become members of the European Union before us, the usability of pre-accession funds in the Republic of Croatia is neither slightly pink nor satisfactory. We can do a lot better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72707	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72708	Thank you very much. I am particularly pleased after a series of these individual discussions today that I am speaking behind my colleague Franić because what my colleague Franić said is the essence and should be a contentious debate on this subject. In fact, we can discuss this matter in two ways: the first one is the purest one of the PRs, the populist, the excelling character and the work of an individual in a particular environment, and we are calculating ourselves with the opponent. But the second, and I support the second and my intention in the debate is precisely in that direction, and that is content. Each of us is always ready to praise the good things, but at the same time our obligation is to point to problems, and there are problems. With the help of those who have encountered problems, 67 municipalities and cities have run for measure 301, they have no answer. However, these answers offend the common sense, signed by the Director of the paying agency at the Ministry of Agriculture. Who's he gonna ask? One of the big problems in this whole system is education. They were convicted, he mentioned today, of consulting houses. Surely there are all sorts of things in the consulting houses, very valuable and hardworking, responsible people, but there are others. And normally anyone who went to other people's that in trouble, spent money, failed to do a job and still remained in his problem. Therefore, we believe that we should respond specifically to the IPARD which is not small. It's a component of IPA five 102m euros. Usability is only 6%, and direct support is precisely that segment or sector that needs the most help, which is agricultural production. Through these measures, these people are allowed to adapt to new conditions. Through these measures, these people are also allowed to start entrepreneurship in the country as an economic activity, not a traditional way of life. Through these measures it is possible for young people who are the only possible holder of a different approach to agriculture, in the development of the village... And I have an example of young people, a family economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They ran their project on the unit, and they passed. The most important thing is they're gone. Their project went through on IPARD. They were granted funds, however, fell to pre-financing. Because the bank told him the entrepreneur has no experience in this production. Expended money, spent time, had an excellent purpose for the whole family, the brother and sister were ready to move into that production that was particularly interesting. Passed on to a commission that's hard to believe, but here's what's happening. So, top-notch, they did the project. The consulate house followed them very well. They came to the pre-financing bank. No, because the entrepreneur has no experience in this production, and he has business cooperation with a foreign consultant precisely in this type of production. Or example number two. Family economy. They have applied for funding for the units, have experience in the production, have passed on IPARD and have fallen back on pre-financing because the bank considers the project too risky. Therefore, these are the elements we should discuss here in the Croatian Parliament today, not the magnificent character and work of individuals in a particular environment and the political slap with another opponent. Speaking of counties, I know a county that is extremely successful in this use. It's the least we're talking about, and when we talk about entrepreneurship and the business zone, I don't think I should mention it. It is enough to say just one business zone in the Republic of Croatia and everyone will think right here in that city. The county that has the largest production, the largest export in the country as a county. So, colleagues and colleagues, I think when we discuss this report that has good things, but the question of the use of these funds is in the interest of every citizen of this country. Therefore, it is wonderful and wonderful to repeat the grandeur of character and works but the content of the problems that interfere with the implementation of the entire system are the least spoken of. And finally, I think when we talk about IPARD, the IPA Five component that just passed the story. The simple time ahead does not allow us to take advantage of what we could have used long ago, especially given that people who have worked to prepare the entire system, people who claim at consultations with consultants that grapes are not fruit, that there is simply nothing to talk about. So it's a system that needs to be changed. You all got the answer to my representative's question, and that's what I asked for the data on how much money was spent to pay back capital investments. You all got it. I'm at this point, now I'm saying that the answer to my representative's question is not, it doesn't answer the truth. He doesn't answer to the truth, and you probably could have figured it out yourself and figured it out. So, who's cheating on whom? Why? For what? Does a parliamentary representative have a right? Do citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know how and how taxpayers' money is spent? In particular, through this return on capital investments. I'm asking a very correct question to the rest of the ministry. I'm getting an answer that doesn't match the truth. And expect such an implementing body to be constructive in creating conditions for the use of IPARD. No way. It is wonderful to read figures that have a relatively large percentage of executions. Each and every one of us is looking forward to it, and no one is envious. However, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to warn again that these are pre-accession programmes that have been in the role of strengthening our institutions, pre-accession programmes where foreign consultants have mostly earned money. Something that specifically opens up the possibility for us and the chance is IPA three, it's IPARD, IPA five. We are not great here and I think that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must make far more concrete and powerful moves with respect to all the objective problems that are definitely on the part of the European Commission in terms of preparing our own where we have also had quite a number of cowardly eggs in terms of procedures, defining procedures. But the fact that we don't talk about these things, we don't discuss these things, but at the same time we're willing to make up a nice story that finally... Like I said on behalf of the club, I'll support this report, but I think there are a lot of things we need to change here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72709	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72710	Dear colleague, you have in your statement several truly horror stories made especially in this situation to pass the project and then fall on our domestic component, to pre-financing. So we are more papal than the Pope, because then we are reviewing the feasibility study and in fact the whole project on which colleagues from the European Union did not have any objections. On the other hand, you've touched this consultant problem. The fact is that largely the consultants coming from the European Union are picking up the lion's share of the work. But what we've done to educate our domestic consultants, to have projects to teach teachers,... In order to raise consultants who are competent, educated, effective for their work, given that I always represent more carrot approaches than beatings, I believe that the state itself through its mechanisms should deal with this aspect. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] And someone in today's debate also suggested a black list of bad consultants, why not publish a white list of consultants whose projects were well-rated, who had passed, and who had done their job with dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72711	Answer, Mr. Korachević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72712	Well, thank you very much, colleague Franic, I think things are clear, and each of us are clear, but do we want to understand, do we want to direct that message to create a constructive atmosphere, the atmosphere of which all citizens in this country will benefit. I'm glad that certain environments benefit, and it's good to benefit. The second question is what criteria did they just get the right to build water or waste disposal in their county, which is the second question, the issue of criteria. But it's good that all these projects are being realized, but the fact is that we don't have a system... Funding, here's... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For two projects, they fell because we don't have a defined system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that sense, we in the Croatian People's Party have already given a whole series of quality proposals how and how to solve it. Second consultants, so why don't we get a consultant license? It's the simplest procedure, why don't we do it? However, he should obviously have knowledge and knowledge that he could even license someone, I think there is a fundamental and key problem. And the second is the story, which is the general known thing that many things are related to the European Union funds for that body run by a certain operational programme, that they are a state secretary, that they are not being transferred further, that even consultants are barely coming to information, and the famous story is specific and very specific to the IPARD, I know one characteristic case, that there was also inside information that the consultant house could pass with its project within the very short period of time that the competition was called.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72713	Thank you. Another replica, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72714	So you're talking about the system. Unfortunately, we in Croatia are inclined to invent warm water rather than learn from other people's experiences. The Republic of Poland, the prime minister is visiting our country, has the most effective system of attracting funds from pre-accession funds and now as a member. And you know why? Because there's one ministry that's only competent and all the other ministries are subordinated to, in carrying out animation and programme implementation obligations. And another important example that you mentioned of the criteria, the Republic of Slovenia. The Slovenian government is funding programmes, the Slovenian government is providing its own financing or pre-financing. Unfortunately, this is not the case with us, or in some cases. The rest of us got the answer, that we were too rich and we didn't get into the criteria, that others got priority, but we got the answer, since you don't have the financial capacity for your pre-financing, unfortunately you're out, and others from various state and public institutions have received funds through which they could realise initial investment in these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72715	Thank you. Mr. Koračević's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72716	Here's a thank you, dear fellow. The fact is that Poland was wise and smart so it all focused on one ministry, in one center, and finally used their last year, their withdrawing funds from structural... The funds were 130%, not 50%, not 60, not 80, not 100%, but 130%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, 30% were taken from countries that were incompetent. We're on our way to being one of those who'll make the smart use of the piece and our cake. I personally hope that this will not happen and that is the responsibility of all of us in this Croatian Assembly. And as far as the criteria are concerned, it is known, if we are in any consistency in this country, which is that we are consistent with the implementation of political criteria, and based on the political criteria of allowing individual environments to reach opportunities that some other environments were not able to reach, they were unable to realise their projects, and they are ultimately incompetent, which is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72717	Thank you. And in five minutes, in the name of the club, Mr. Korachević.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72718	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I understand that it is 12 hours and Friday, but I will again on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, and the Croatian Party of Retired stressed that the debate on the report on the use of pre-accession programmes of the European Union for the period, for a certain period, is extremely important because of the potential provided by funds on the one hand, and on the other hand, given the overall economic moment in which we were brought, in particular by our own fault, something which definitely gives us a chance to survive, and which is particularly important to structure and create the possibility that when we enter the European Union we are effectively using European Union funds, as the Polish type has just been said over 100%, and not the IPARD type where the use is only 6%. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retirement in this final address, I would like first of all to support and congratulate the employees of the Central State Office for the development strategy and coordination of the European Union funds, because the job they are doing is extremely difficult and difficult, on the one hand, has a European Commission to negotiate with, people from the European Commission, and on the other hand have individual implementing bodies, very irresponsible, where they are in a position to blush because of the inability of someone in a ministry who proves their size in a completely wrong way, such as this example in the use of IPARD funds. Secondly, I would like to warn the Government of the Republic of Croatia that finally in the implementation of these projects, in the implementation of systems for use and pre-accession and access funds, to ensure the necessary personnel, it is something that is constantly repeated and that is even repeated in the Government's report, which we do not get in the Parliament, and nothing in this report says about it. But on several of the latest government reports that went to the government, that's exactly what it says. To ensure all necessary support and normal Government of the Republic of Croatia, all necessary support to ensure that the system and communication between SDURF and other ministries, in particular state secretaries, management parts nominated for individual operational programmes to ensure an effective system for us to make the complete system more useful and useful to all of us. And finally, given that almost certainly part of the funds will be used we propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that, together with the European Commission, by technical assistance, these funds should be directed towards municipalities, according to cities, based on the development index, not on some political similarity for these people to prepare, prepare the necessary documentation, and that their projects could be realised at the moment when our funds or when the possibility is opened. Because it is the only chance that when we enter the EU not to be a net payer but to be a net recipient. Once again, congratulations to everyone in the Central State Office on a huge job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72719	Thank you. And finally, State Secretary Ms. Ivana Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72720	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you very much. Here I will be very brief because I have to answer a few questions that are directly asked here, but before I answer the questions myself, I have to tell you one fact, which is that in 19.04, Chapter 22 was temporarily closed at an intergovernmental conference, and this chapter 22 laid down direct criteria regarding the implementation of IPA, in fact, the success of the implementation of the IPA pre-accession programme and the criteria related to our preparation for the use of structural and cohesion funds, i.e. to participate in one of the common European policies, which is cohesion policy. And in this chapter, in fact, the European Commission has estimated that the Republic of Croatia has done its job well along with all the people working on these jobs and the Government at the helm. I thank you that you also in your debates have recognised the efforts of all the people and the great work that has been done and I must really underline that it is not one institution but all the ministries and implementing bodies in that system, that people really work days and nights, that they are doing a lot of work for this job to have a result. As far as the issue is concerned, one of the questions was related to rule N+3 which I will not talk about much, but I would like to inform you that he was recently visiting the Republic of Croatia Commissioner Johannes Hahn, he is the EU Regional and Cohesion Policy Commissioner and he was actually in a meeting with ministers, I said that this rule is very difficult for candidate countries to respect and that they intend to revise him in the future for the next candidate countries. Because unlike the member states, and you've been making comparisons with Poland, and it's impossible to compare that because it's really about pears and apples, so we couldn't at the time when we were preparing to get work permits to implement projects and then afterwards ask for funds to implement these projects. Member States can do that. And at the same time, we are given this rule that we must say 3 years after the end of the first year, so in 2010 and 2011, we have spent allocations in 2007 and 2008. And we could only start using those locations in 2009 because then we got permission to work. Member States have been able to use them since 1 January 2007. And that's one big difference means in the dynamics that the Commissioner himself recognized and said that they actually think in that part to revise their rules. You asked further about the first component for IPA in 2008 if it would move the deadline because the deadline for the agreement was 5.06.2011. So, we're going to do that, moving the deadline is already agreed with the Commission because there's one part of the funds already achieved, or saved during public procurement procedures. So the current situation, the current arrangement is 50%, by June 5th will be 65%, but some 15-20% have been saved during public procurement procedures so that they will actually start new projects that try to use these savings plus there are 3 projects that are atypical otherwise for this Component 1. One is the vaccination of foxes, it's actually more user-friendly, more project than a national project because it has to be implemented simultaneously in several countries and then until all this is brought together we can't implement the project either. So that required a prolongation. In fact, the Commission took these arguments seriously, looked at them and concluded that it was important to extend that deadline. IPA 2009 component - Components 1 and 10 will not be compromised and we have already sent all projects to approval at 9. There's a big part of the deal. The 10 has already begun to be sent, so the EU delegation to Zagreb is actually buried with our cases. And it's not that easy for them to work together what comes from all institutions. Mostly it goes at a good pace and we catch dynamics and it's not compromised. You also asked for the evaluation of projects at the end of the program. So that evaluation is certainly working and intending to do. And what we've done further is ex-post control by project. So, after the projects are completed, people go to the field to see if everything is okay and there, that's the problem that arises at the level of local units and other users that they're not actually used to such controls and that they don't use the project in the long term, so they can happen to pay back the money. But that will eventually mean getting rid of it. One question was related, and I have to say, in the defense of HZ, about the education of people. So now they've hired a lot of people over the last few years. They're growing up with no 10, 15 to 40, 50, and that's why they're going into these more intense educations around the body. So these educations are simply necessary because of this huge growth in the number of people precisely for these EU jobs. Here, that's about it. And just as far as the IPARD's concerned, it's the last sentence. To the extent that 301 all projects that have been rejected have not been rejected due to the lack of OIB or any other administrative confirmation. The only reason for the refusal was the complexity and acceptability of the investment and the fact that not all the documentation was complete but technically not the OIB led to the rejection of the projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72721	Thank you, we have one correction, Mr. Korachević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72722	Thank you very much. This last line from the State Secretary to me is completely too high, so... It is incorrect that the documentation was not complete because people were delivering subsequent documentation, and to not believe that over 50 requests, over 50 requests do not have complete, somewhere around 15 different consulting houses, and almost everyone in the answer writes the same thing. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Therefore, the intention and attitude of the agency is very clear, and in that sense I am correcting your incorrect claim and there is no reason to hide what is true because the damage is common to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-06-0.u72723	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide something later. We are moving to the report on the use of pre-accession aid programmes of the European Union for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010. Subject to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the use of pre-accession EU assistance programmes for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010 is hereby adopted. Let's please get involved and vote on the conclusion. The result? This report and conclusion were accepted by most votes, 96 votes for, one abstention and nothing against. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the session's continuance is on Wednesday 11 May at 9:30 p.m. with the agenda Final proposal of the referendum law is an emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 784. So with this point on Wednesday we begin and continue this session. Thank you very much, and I'd like a nice vacation if there is one.
