ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67011	I thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. By amending and supplementing this law, we propose that the time limit for granting concessions to units of regional self-government be extended until 30 June. I must indeed conclude with great satisfaction that in 15 counties, although it is an extremely complex process in which the Ministry of Health participates, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, the units of the district self-government and the homes of health, that the procedure is completely completed in 15 counties. Only the procedure in the counties in which complaints were lodged and because the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures failed to resolve those complaints until 31.12 last year, the procedure was not completed. We also regulate this law the right of doctors who have been hired to have a priority in employment if they do not want to go to concessions and if they want to return to health homes. This legislative proposal shall also give power to the Minister of Health for the adoption of the Regulations, which will regulate the conditions and procedure for the authorisation of the continuation of work of healthcare professionals in private practice in the event of termination of the concession. It is therefore necessary that primary health care doctors who have gone to concessions who no longer wish to carry out their private practice may continue to practice private practice on the market without further administration, or without leaving the Ministry of Health for the establishment of minimum technical conditions unless conditions regarding space, equipment and personnel have changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67012	Thank you. The Committee on Health and Social Policy, the chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67013	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 53rd session, the Health and Social Care Committee considered the proposal of this law as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative explained that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law extend the time limits to the units of the regional self-government for the implementation of the concession procedure for public health care by the end of 2011. The proposed changes are necessary due to the complexity of the procedure, and for the purpose of ensuring continuity of the provision of healthcare according to the doctor’s affinities and needs. The proposed law prescribes priorities in the employment of primary healthcare professionals in health care homes after the expiry of the time limit for the submission of tenders according to the published notice of the intention to grant concessions if they meet the required conditions for competition for employment. In the debate, the committee members supported the simplification of the administrative process of continuing the work of the primary healthcare physician in private practice in cases of termination of concession. After the discussion, the board members decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly, by a majority of votes, 6 for and 1 abstentions, for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67014	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67015	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have certainly debated health care in this House, but regardless of the debate, the fundamental objectives remain, therefore, the financial consolidation of the health system and the maintenance of high levels and quality and availability of health care. In this regard, happy and latest data that was heard at a consultation in Opatija a short time ago by a health care association where the latest data on the stabilisation of the hospital system, the reduction of losses, of course also in HZZO were presented. Of course, happy in that sense and achievements and in the transplant... reduction in the cost of sick leave and all other indicators that speak in this regard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course it is necessary to have a legal framework, there is the 2008 Health Protection Act, which was updated in 2010 as we know. The same law regulates the principles and measures of healthcare, the rights and obligations of persons and the use of health care, the holder of social care for the health of the population, the content, the organisational forms of performing health activities and the supervision of the exercise of health activities. This law, as we know, remembers that a concession for the provision of public health services at the primary level, health care, has been introduced into the healthcare system. Thus, the legislative framework for the development of this Institute in the field of health as an area of public service provision aimed at achieving transparency, equality, uniform legal protection of entities and a defined legal procedure for granting it. Let's remind ourselves how concessions are awarded in health care. So on the proposal of the head of the health system, the system is brought by the mayor and the mayor. However, at the very beginning of the introduction of concessions into the health system, it is said that health concessions are complex and economic and legal and health matter. During the application and it was also shown in the context of these circumstances, so that in 15 counties it was completely completed, in 6 complaints were filed because the complaints were made, but we have data that this appeal procedure was resolved somewhere in January, except as far as I know the City of Zagreb has not been resolved there. The second circumstance which has proved to be of course as regards a doctor who, therefore, does not want to continue working in private practice in the lease, they should have the advantage but it has proved that certain health homes do not question competitions so that they can return and in these circumstances the need of these changes and additions, which, as Mr. Secretary of State said, consists of three things, is very simple. First, this deadline for the adoption of concessions is therefore extended until 30 June 2011, so the extension of the units to local and regional self-government for this same award is proposed. If that procedure is not carried out within that period, the same will be carried out by the Ministry of Health and Social Care. That's part of it. The second part is therefore regulating this transition ratio let's say out of lease, from private practice to a home of health where these employees, doctors who do not want this way to continue the lease to have an advantage. And the third amendment is, as we have heard, given power to the Minister of Health to adopt a regulation that will regulate the conditions for the procedure for the authorisation of the continued work of a healthcare professional in private practice in the event of termination of the concession. So I believe that these changes and additions will, of course, further improve the health system, ensure a high level of quality and availability. And in this regard, the Croatian Democratic Community club will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67016	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67017	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The law that is before us at first sight is a short and technical character. The purpose of this law is actually to extend certain deadlines in a law that changes, and if we respond to that first look, we would say technically it is a question and does not require a more serious debate. However, if the question arises, why is the need for these deadlines to change then we will come to an area where the story is much more interesting? This certainly falls within the order of those regulations that we must only adopt because the existing system does not work, or those in the system, here it applies to both the Ministry and HZZO, but also to the county competent offices did not do their job properly. And therefore, the deadline in which all doctors are private, in private practice, still 1.1.2010, should have the status of concessionaires constantly prolonged, and then these amendments and additions of the law will give us new terms, new dates in mid-2011 or late 2011. And why is that? First of all, because the Ministry and the Institute have not established such a monitoring system in which lower levels would be more functional, and on the other hand, there is insufficient coordination. And on the third hand, it's just the Ministry of Health, or I caused a circus that's been going on for years. The circus, which has resulted in a very large number of complaints, i.e. appeal procedures that cannot resolve the status issues of many private offices in Croatia. Let me remind you, it all started at the time when 6 hundred private medical offices refused the HZZO order, or the ministry to change the information program they were using. Because they keep it functional and because HZZO has admitted in one official letter that no testing or analysis has ever been carried out to determine that the disputed IT programme is dysfunctional and that it does not meet the conditions set by the system, i.e. the HZZO. The rebellion of those who used it was a red cloth to the ministry and the institute to start pressing all six hundred private offices and forcing them to change the system. The pressure went even to the point where one third of the chieftain was taken away, which in some cases was 15 thousand kuna. Such pressure was not possible for private doctors, so they had to give up mass and agree to the programme suggested by the oral staff of the Croatian Institute or the Ministry of Health. Of course, there will now be a whole series of incorrect allegations that will claim that this is not the case. But it's enough to look at what happened in August last year and what kind of scandal broke out about it when five associations of doctors of private practice rose up against such behaviour and the ministry and HZZO. And all because things stand out that some people are open not only from these associations, but also from the owner, the owner of that programme stood up against Minister Milinovic's reform. And let us look at what is behind this claim that some counties have not fulfilled their deadlines by law. The concession law is clear when it comes to the criteria to be met for selecting the best bidder. There's only three of them. The first authorisation is for independent work, i.e. a doctor’s license. The second is proof of the availability, i.e. the rental of space. And the third is a contract with a nurse, or contract to work on a team with a team member. What do we have in practice? The city of Zagreb has expanded these three criteria on an entirely arbitrary basis with a whole series of new criteria. Ask for authorisation for independent work, a solution to the Ministry of Health and Social Care on private practice, proof of the availability of space, contract of working with a member of the team or nurse, contract with the HZZO, confirmation of the IRS of no debt, declaration of additional medical technical equipment, and the most controversial proposal for a concession contract, which means a pre-contract on a concession which does not exist as a legal category. When you heard that your terms for signing the contract were pre-contracting and the right of the City Health Office to impose these additional criteria. The people involved have been consulted by lawyers who protested and said it was nonsense and that they should not sign it because it is a legal blackmail that is not based on any regulation in Croatia. Those who did not provide all these necessary papers as interpreted in the city office were disqualified from the procedure. They're told they don't have complete documentation. Some who haven't delivered all the documents are recognised as being. So there was a whole cabbage. Some are asked for everything, some are granted something. But there was a situation where a very large number of doctors came into the situation that they had to complain and that these appeals were now delaying the whole concession procedure. Some of these doctors received, among other things, and for the first reason, formally, because they allegedly used the wrong program, although they documented that it was not true, because they gave up on it long ago, because they had to, they received solutions to the termination of the contract, that is, the license. They're practically out of work. And now they're also in the appeal process. All this makes it difficult to grant concessions according to previously established deadlines. It is certainly not the Croatian Parliament's fault, it is not the doctors' fault, it is the elements of the system that have forgotten these things, have not taken care of them enough, and have allowed the system to practically fall apart and do whatever it wants. I would like to know what the Ministry of Health has done to prevent this kind of interpretation of the rules as to how the competent health office of the city of Zagreb approached him, or perhaps some other county that did not respect the deadlines. Playing with this system isn't smart, it's just that it's the first pillar in the entire health care system. Family medicine doctors are the first address we all address in any case of problems or the need to resolve health, the basic prevention of consequences. To question this whole system is completely irresponsible. This is the least the ministry can do, of course propose a deadline prolongation in order to allow the system to continue to function, to keep doctors in their position, to continue to work with their offices, but the question is what made the ministry not to come to this, and why are we being silent about this all the time? Why reform only presents itself to us in pink colors, and when it starts under the surface we discover that the system is actually weak or in no way functioning where it is most important, which is in the first contact of the patient with the doctor. In this respect, the HNS and HSU will not accept such a proposal for principle reasons, because it believes that only and exclusively with responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Social Care has occurred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67018	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mrs. Representative Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67019	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Beus, who said that these amendments and amendments to the law on the need and only therefore, I quote: "Because the system does not work."and blamed it on the Ministry of Health and Social Care, HZZO and county administrative departments. My colleague, that is absolutely not true, your discussions are otherwise pretentious, so how could you conclude that all of this has been done by the Ministry, the HZZO and the County, when you see from the data that all the counties have conducted the procedure, and the problem has only arisen with those 7 counties where the bidders have filed complaints and complaints stand on, in front of the Commission. It is very nice otherwise that you set an example of the city of Zagreb here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67020	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinković, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting the same quote that my colleague Bilic Vardic corrected. I'm still stating that the Ministry and the Bureau have still produced a circus in that area, and that they are the sole culprits of the dysfunction. You obviously didn't follow me or you didn't know the matter. Dear fellow, the ministry creates a framework as legally as it is and thus brings what it has brought. And on the other hand, on the proposal, I repeat at the proposal of the Head of the Health and Social Care Office the mayor brings. So it's very clear who in that system is in charge. And the other thing, who can forbid someone. Please be nice, any purchases,... Get to see that in the whole system they get to complain. [[You don't understand.]] Well, he's got a right to complain. It is a system and, of course, you heard the same data that I said that here are these days and these complaints solved, except for the city of Zagreb where you state. And otherwise, I'm a very good system. It works... in support of the system's functioning and taking care of doctors, because you're saying it's an injustice... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Please nice... [[You don't understand.]] so that they can be able to get into the concession so that they can move on, that they can come, have a priority in employment. [[You don't understand.]] Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67022	State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Drazen Jurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67023	Thank you. Lucky it's a pre-election year, because I would really think that you either don't read or you don't know what you're talking about, dear representative. ... Thank you, thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I'll make that argument. ... You insult us this way. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So here's the deal. I made it clear in my opening statement that only in 6 counties where complaints were lodged, so where the State Commission for Public Procurement Control did not resolve complaints that only in those 6 counties had not implemented the concession procedure. What does that mean? The first complaint was filed on 12.7., so in 12.7.2010. From 12.7.2010 to 31.12, therefore, the state commission did not resolve the complaint. As far as the concession procedure is concerned. So this is about how wrong it is for the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. Well, the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance cannot affect the deadline within which the State Commission for Public Procurement Control will resolve the complaint, and whether it will need a month, 3, 5 or a year to do so. So we couldn't really influence it. As for the chaos in the system. So I said that this procedure was extremely complex, it was called in the area of the Republic of Croatia 4 thousand concessions. Do you know how many complaints there have been? A total of 30. So at 4000 concessions, that's less than 1%. Less than 1% of complaints. As far as the city of Zagreb is concerned. There are 905 concessions in the Zagreb area. It was 10, I think 10 or something less, we don't know the exact number, so less than 10 complaints. So I repeat to the 4000 concessions we have 30 complaints, and then the distinguished representative finds that it's chaos. Well, of course it's a minimum number of complaints about such extensive work. As regards the programme of an information company, be said private, which received from the Ministry of Health for the development of the programme million-and-a-half kuna, provided that the programme was adapted to the needs of the Ministry of Health and Health system that the same company refused when implementing the health care reform, noting the private company represented by the esteemed representative Beus, refused even though it was in a privileged position when it received a million-and-a-half kuna, a small IT private company, refused to implement the request in the information program by boycotting health system reform fully aware of the health ministry's contract with the IT company. By the way, this information company, which is defended by the esteemed representative, I do not know from which interest, the State Attorney's Office has therefore initiated proceedings against this information company because the government's budget and taxpayers were damaged for a multimillion-dollar amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67024	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67025	Article 209 was injured, Mr. Beuss's representative did not insult anyone, but the secretary of state insulted agent Beus. We're clearly taught that, but you're still a man asking why such anxiety? A representative doesn't have to understand, but he doesn't need to be insulted. And about whether or not someone is insulting him should take care of the chairman and in some way protect him and protect him that Mr. Shakespeare in this particular case, the first among the equal, at this moment in this assembly has not done. And finally, to teach both the left and the right, and perhaps the Istrians themselves would say, "It's ugly to say nice."
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67026	Yes, thank you very much. It's not about any damage to the Rules of Procedure. According to his powers, the secretary of state simply responded to the harsh, critical allegations of MP Richembergh. And it's quite a common communication. No, no, it's not for you. [[Intruder: Not really.]] An individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone, she's losing her word. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say right away that I agree with everything that my colleague Beus said. It's that at first glance this looks like a law dealing with technical problems and that nothing really changes. The deadline for the completion of the concession procedure for the public health service was the one we heard, not respected and of course we now have to change that. Therefore, with the aim of not jeopardising the status of current private healthcare professionals, the only thing that can be done at this time is to extend the deadline. I will take this opportunity and warn of something that may happen in the near future, which in some ways goes in favour of my colleague Beus's debate. I would like to warn you of the fact that the Ministry itself often causes delays in the county. In fact, sometimes counties cannot spend on time what is expected of them for the simple reason that only the ministry has not done its part of the job. And in that sense, I agree with my colleague when he says that the ministry does not do its part or does its part in time cause chaos in the system and, indirectly, the delay of many other institutions. So I don't experience Mr. Secretary of State like my colleague, Beus, I'm going to give him two very simple and specific examples. And I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State to show himself now. So, the deadline for granting concessions for labour medicine is 30.06.2011. The Minister, as far as I know, you correct me if I'm wrong, has not yet brought a network of medical work, although everyone is very well aware that the old network cannot be awarded concessions because the network is not conceived in a way that is suitable for awarding concessions. So if the minister doesn't urgently bring in a new network of medical work it's normal that everything will be late because the county can't do its job. So it's somebody else's fault again. So we'll bring again, that is, in the parliamentary procedure, we'll send amendments and additions to the laws they have for technical purposes, that is, only changes in deadlines. Should I mention emergency medicine? Do we know that an emergency medical network has not been brought in yet? And it's quite justified to ask the question of how anything too high on the ground can be done without a network, and deadlines for setting up the Emergency Medicine Office go, they just go. The deadline expires at the end of this year. So, I know that one county, it doesn't matter which, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, as early as the 4th month of last year, is being careful almost 7 months ago, 9 pardons, sent a request to the ministry to issue an approval for the work of the Emergency Medicine Institute in one of the counties. To this day, not a single voice from that same ministry. What am I saying? This is where the ministry didn't do their job, part of the job that was supposed to be done already. So nine months ago, it's only about one problem. I now give you two examples where the ministry didn't do its job, and it should have. It's somebody else's fault later. So, my colleague Beus was right. He was right when he said that if we look at things on the surface, everything is fine on the left, and in fact, if we scratch below that surface, we see a system that does not work and that does not give the citizens of Croatia what they should be given. No matter what you say, your attempt to underestimate us and teach us from this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67028	Thank you, one correction, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Jerkovic made a number of incorrect allegations, so I'd look back on just a few. The Ministry's inaction makes chaos in the system, that the system doesn't work for many others. Absolutely incorrect and dangerous. Well, at a time when the system generated 2 billion losses a year, the system was caught, seemed and entered into problem solving, and what if it hadn't seemed, the system would have collapsed. Today, however, we have European and world standards in Europe, 20th and 25th health care systems, meaning quality and availability. So these indicators that I spoke in health care and transplant medicine and an expensive drug fund and all the other indicators are in favour of that. There's nothing wrong with you in Rijeka, and in your environment, of course, it's invested in the health system, out of those 3 billion of course, it's not enough for you to thank you for writing release letters, so it's absolutely unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67030	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's always nice to speak behind opposition MPs because then we have the opportunity to justify why we support the amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act in this form delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I will return to 2008 when, as part of the comprehensive reform of the Croatian Health System in early 2008 the concession in primary health care was introduced by a health care law that entered into force on 1 January 2009. The law sets the deadline until 31 December 2009, so a year is the deadline for the units of local and regional self-government to implement the concession procedure. The deadline was then extended by the first regulation and then by amending the Law in the National Journal 71/2010 by 6 months until 31 June 2010. It is clear from the reasons, and I will not repeat now that the procedure has been initiated in all the counties and the City of Zagreb, 20 counties and the City of Zagreb, that until now it has been completed in 8 counties because the Ministry or the Minister has issued the solutions and the procedure is completely completed, in 6 are brought to an end, the county is brought to custody, and then the Ministry will do so, and what is necessary to bring about the amendments and additions of this Act, I will repeat it once again, although we have heard it several times seven counties, to which concessions have been awarded by the bidders. Not wanting to defend the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, which we granted to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, we ourselves are aware that the Commission has a growing number of complaints from year to year, and apparently this job has been a concession in health, along with other concessions, a new job and they have waited very long, as the Secretary of State said, as explained in the explanation, since 12 July 2010, when the first appeal was made, the procedure was not completed until 31 December 2010. By following the register on the website of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, we can see that the procedures have been completed, that these complaints have been completed, the proceedings have been completed and that the only outstanding case remains in the City of Zagreb area. The secretary of state spoke about how many complaints were in the City of Zagreb area compared to a large number of concessions. What I would say from the experience of Brod-Posavina County because it too is located in these 7 counties that have had the appeal procedure, one complaint was filed, was filed by a senior dentist who did not want to comply with the Law because she cannot continue to carry out dental medicine on primary health care, as a concessionist, but must return to the House of Health. Her appeal was resolved on January 13th and thus the concession procedure in the area of Brod-Posavina County, which I come from, was completed. And another interesting thing is, I don't think we've heard him by now what percentage of the tenants who returned to the House of Health in the area of Brod-Posavina County were three tenants, did not go to concession, but continued their activity in the composition of health homes in the area of Brod-Posavina County. And now something in favour of the opposition and the rule of various experiences is being drawn from the experience of Brod-Posavina County, I will use this debate, contrary to my colleague Beus and my colleague, Jerkovic, to commend the involvement of the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, to assist and participate in the implementation of the concession procedure in primary health care for which I have personal experience and testify that it was in the area of Brod-Posavina County, and I am sure that they have been available to other counties as well as the City of Zagreb. And something else in all of this and initiating the procedure, therefore in accordance with the Law, has proved in a certain way our commission and, in a certain way, the obvious fear of the new, because the Ministry and the Croatian Health Insurance Office cannot be guilty that the proceedings did not start sooner, but in any case, that responsibility goes to the units of the regional self-government, which are also the new business. I think I see no problem in the fact that the procedure was very complex, however, in this way the county and the City of Zagreb, and in particular I mean the county, took over that function that they had given by decentralisation and reforming their health system. Hence, by supporting and praising the Ministry for all that has so far been done to assist in the implementation of concessions, to monitor the implementation of this law, because if the Ministry had not followed and supervised the implementation of this law, there would not be any amendments and additions that help tenants who have not yet received concessions, I will support this final proposal to amend and supplement the Health Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67032	Thank you. Ms. Representative Sunday, Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67033	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. These amendments and additions to the law therefore, as we have already heard, extend the deadline to regional self-government units i.e. the counties for the implementation of the concession procedure for the provision of public health services by 30 June of this year. If this is not done by the county by then, then the procedure will be carried out by the Ministry of Health and Social Care by the end of the year. until 31 December 2011. We have already heard and it is not worse to repeat and say that at this time the situation is such that in 15 counties the procedure is completely completed, and in 6 counties and in the City of Zagreb there are no complaints resolved and for this reason the deadline is extended. In fact, it is the complaints to the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures on decisions on selecting the most favourable bidders. It should be said that the Government is leading the account in this way, and I personally underline that the status of current private health workers is not compromised, that they do not stop working with the day of 31 December 2010, and that they are not closed with the concession procedure, so there are particularly good reasons for the adoption of this law in the emergency procedure. Of course, the purpose of ensuring the continuity of providing healthcare is in line with the affinities and doctors on the one hand and the needs of patients on the other hand. These amendments and additions to the law have shown that healthcare professionals who are authorised by the Minister for Labour in Health Employment Units and who do not submit an offer to grant concessions have the advantage of employment in health homes, if they have the conditions of competition for employment. The Secretary of State thinks this is very correct and precisely on the trail of any changes and addition of a complete package of health laws in the current reform of the health system in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, health homes are obliged to open tenders within 30 days of the expiry of the time limit for submission of tenders based on concessions in order to implement that legal provision. These amendments simplify certain administrative procedures of the continued work of the primary health care doctor in private practice when the concession ceases, which is not negligible at all, but on the contrary facilitates the smooth continuation of the work of the doctor, and also contributes to the claim that specific health care and preventive checks will improve the standard and expectations of Croatian insurance companies. These are all reasons why I will support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Health Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67034	Thank you, Madam Representative. Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is my personal support for the amendment and supplementation of the Health Protection Act. In fact, this law clearly shows that some times it is easier to pass the law itself, and then we often say that there is a problem in implementing and implementing that law on the ground. For this law, we can say that it has been implemented quite successfully regardless of these changes and additions to this law, because the process itself is not simple and this has proved to be so. About the fact that I'm tendering the mayor himself on the proposal of the headmaster, that the process in itself is like this by looking and calling the competition simple, but demanding is all complex and time-consuming. The consequences and the possibility of non-compliance with the deadlines for the completion of the concession as provided for by this law have led to a change in terms or limitations of time and extension. But when you see that out of 4 thousand concessions were made in the City of Zagreb 905 then it is really not a small business but a huge job, and when you see again how many complaints it is then it is really negligible and it is negligible to comment on this extension of deadlines. But certainly the ministry is meeting medical professionals or doctors to complete the concession. The State Commission for Public Procurement really seems to me to be taking a little longer and here from this place I would appeal regardless of the amount of work the commission has, to be done. The number of complaints is not great, and then everything is put on the burden of the Ministry of Health, which is really unwarranted. This is certainly a decentralisation process, and in this decentralisation process, we must all take a certain responsibility. Certain responsibilities must be taken upon themselves and the counties, as well as in the conversation with Mrs Adlesic, it might be good to consider the role of the city itself in the process of decentralisation, i.e. to transfer some of that responsibility to the city. Doctors from a lease that does not go to a concession can, of course, return to health homes and this is a great possibility of taking care of colleagues. In this regard, we must admit that it is also about doctors who do not have sufficient numbers of patients and where it would be questionable to operate on the basis of concessions. Of course, home health is very good, right within 30 days to open a tender that these doctors will call. A great benefit is for doctors who will no longer be in concession, who can continue to work in private practice. The concession really isn't mandatory and it provides a greater possibility. And it must also be clear to us that doctors across Europe are working on the principle of concessions. Therefore, it is also one way of harmonising our work with the work of a doctor in Europe at whose door we are right now. And I think that compliance with European laws, with the European way of working, will not be a problem. Once again, I really support the adoption of this bill, I commend the ministry and the government because this is one of the laws that speaks of successful implementation and implementation on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67036	Replica, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Caparin, you've said nicely that this law has been successfully implemented and these data, therefore 4000 concessions, of which 905 in the City of Zagreb, and only 30 complaints. I think it's very clear to himself. But you mentioned at one point that the State Commission for Public Procurement Control has been slow to say in this part, but I have knowledge from the field that it also works in the process of slower other complaints and in many places, it has to be mentioned in many places that it blocks significant projects. There are also professional complainants, etc. Which, in any case, can be disturbed in these circumstances when every project is important and important to us, I think it's important to keep up-to-date and to work. And in this part, I think that this, regardless of the criticism of health care and health care reform, should not be taken too much into consideration but go on as our slogan very clearly says "Let's move on". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67038	Replicate response, Madame Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67039	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That's why I've just emphasized my colleague especially because the work of the State Commission for Public Procurement Control personally I don't know, I know they have a lot of work to do, but when you look at that 4000 concessions were done in the concession throughout Croatia, that it was done in the City of Zagreb 905, then you can't turn to the Ministry of Health and tell the Ministry of Health is what it doesn't do and that's why we're passing this law. On the contrary, the Ministry of Health works, has shown a lack, extended the deadlines and allowed those doctors who are not yet in the concession to do so in time. So we can't keep blaming the Ministry of Health and those people who really work hard but look beyond. And in the end we're talking about decentralisation, I mean, then we take that responsibility of decentralisation on our own, which means that both the counties have to take responsibility for both cities and all of us. We can't resist the Ministry of Health, but let's ask ourselves what we can do on the ground to make it go faster. The example for you is Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County where it has been successfully completed, where the job is successfully going towards emergency medical care and that it really is moving and that we can talk about health reform and the work that is large, which is at stake.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67040	Thank you. Ms. Djurdja Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67041	Mr. Vice President. Well, I do have a dilemma about this law, and I've talked about it with both Mrs. Caparin and Dr. Hebrang and some other opposition colleagues, because it's clear to me that this law partially simplifies the procedure, that he has a good intention. Where they lead often times the tablets of good intentions we know the same thing. However, my dilemma stems from the experience of the former mayoral seat of the county of one city which is a big city and not only of my own, but I think that all those who do business there, or the mayoral, mayoral affairs, besides the town council, could also speak there because responsibility and finger are always shown locally. First, when something in the city doesn't normally work, it's the mayor's fault, only later, perhaps the mayor, and the minister very often in the end, something changes. Therefore, I believe that this law is not the right decentralisation, that this law is not in line with what we are talking about, and that is how to decentralisation Croatia. Why? Because such important choices as to the quality of life, the cities can't influence anything, but they can be responsible, not just perceptive, can't subcreate anything. And who knows better the problems of his citizens than the mayor who, by the way, generally has the heads of social activities, and his jobs are in the description of health care. Then what are these health leaders doing? I keep it necessary, and I've been discussing it with the secretary of state, the constitutionality of the law. There's a secretary of state who sees me carefully after consulting me preparing for an answer, claims that the law is in accordance with the Constitution, sincerely wants it. However, I'm not sure it's in harmony with logic, not only with perception but with logic. The cities or headquarters of institutions and county headquarters should be partners in such important decisions, without a superior. I know one of the solutions you've offered, which is advice, health advice. When something's called advice, I admit I'm skeptical. The advice when you look at how many there are, of 20 or 21, half of them are founded, and if you ask for reports from those sexes and see how many they are doing and what results they are, I'm afraid that answer would fall very quickly. When we talk about jurisdictional relations, then we can also talk about politics as a business, but also about possible humane solutions that can be suggested here, which are not necessarily always in line with the profession, regardless of the political option. I can't amnesty myself, of course. So I think the cities, the seats, the big cities have to take part of the responsibility, but they have to decide not to, but also to co-determinate. I know you're gonna tell me I can do it now, but I assure you the practice is saying something else. There are two possibilities for this problem to be solved in some way. One possibility is the minister's guidance to the mayors, the minister's instructions on mandatory or necessary consultations with cities where the institutions are located. The other option is, of course, an amendment to the law. We can't do something here right now because that's our act. So, I suggest that after the adoption of this law, the minister's instructions are necessary, and later after the analysis, see if it's done enough. Please, don't just try to refute me now with arguments that these county seats are being placed on superiors to some other cities in the counties or municipalities because it's not true. Not all cities are the same, not all cities have no perception or obligation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67042	Thank you. A few replicas. First Mrs. Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67043	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In my debate, I said how important this decentralisation is and how important it is for all of us on the ground to work together for the benefit of our patients and for better health care. But now that I think about it, it's going to be very hard to do what you're discussing. This should bring a series of changes to other laws, and besides, you know that the founder of these medical institutions is a county. Therefore, the county has a great responsibility both in forming full health care. This law has given her greater responsibility to have greater control. And I don't think there's any obstacle for the county to work with the city. We don't even have to pass the law for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67044	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67045	I'm so glad you've agreed with me and the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67046	Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67047	What you colleagues were saying was that cities here especially big cities with county headquarters should be partners. And that's certainly how it is, and that's actually the key to the problem, actually, to solving a lot of problems. However, this partnership implies responsibility and not just painting on some major projects. I'll tell you how this problem is seen in the city of Zadar. In fact, it started building polyclinics about 25 years ago, so even at a time of socialism. But in 2008, in the ninth year, therefore, local campaigns all came to paint the city's eyes, i.e. potential candidates, because a contract was concluded on the admission of works to the construction of the General Hospital Zadar polyclinic by the system key in hand with a specific and Ministry of Health and Social Care with bidders who got later and a job. And the jobs are on the move. It was just as long as the election campaign ended and the election ended. After that, the works stopped. Which is why the papers stopped wondering the public, they were wondering about the media. The answer could not be received, so I asked as a representative the question why the works on the construction of the General Hospital Zadar polyclinic and I received a unmistakable response from the Ministry of Health which said that it had been reported by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia because it was because the performer had begun to work past the project and beyond the scope of the costs for which he had received the job. And the answer is when the work will continue. The ministry responded and the work will continue once the conditions are met. Is this a fight against corruption? Is that the solution to the health problem? It is likely to continue again any hack or crane when parliamentary elections are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67048	Thank you. Reply to the replica of Ms. Djurdja Adlesic. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67049	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, I have to admit, it's pretty hard for me to withstand this barbeque fire from the right and left but I'll try. I'm glad you agreed that this is where responsibility is needed, not painting. That's for sure, after all, I said that at the very beginning. I believe that cities, seats must have responsibility, but also the possibility of creation. Of course that means first of all responsibility. I just don't know why you told me not to take pictures, but to do it. I don't suppose it has anything to do with me personally. Thank you very much. That's what I wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67050	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67051	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Adlesic, in your debate you doubted our claims that the concession procedure was prescribed by the Health Protection Act to continue the decentralisation process, so I remained a little surprised by the fact that we know what decentralisation meant in 2001 when it was brought right into the field of health. I think this is a big step. I know you have experience as mayor of the city's headquarters, county headquarters. But I don't think that by now or under the existing provisions of the law, the mayors or the mayors of the municipalities, but now we're going to go back to mayors of the county headquarters were limited to anything that they don't cooperate with regional or regional self-government units that just gave the law of 2001 the founding rights over institutions in the health system. Therefore, I believe that even now, and here are these amendments and additions to the laws of the mayors not only of the county seats but also of the other cities in the county can and must be actively involved in ensuring the conditions for carrying out health activities because it is in the interests of citizens and citizens of their cities, and not only of those where they are founding rights, and these are units of regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67052	Replica response, Ms. Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67053	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's actually very pleasant to hear that you agree with me that they have to. I would only like from the experience I have, which you have where it writes, where it says it. That's why I said it would be good or guidance or changes to the law. Good relations between the mayor and the mayor should not be counted on in history or in the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67054	Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67055	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, fellow MPs. This is a technical law, but a law that also speaks of health care. But it's a great opportunity for me to talk about the health and social protection of the defense attorney. We have been implementing health reform for several years, and we have not mentioned the health and social protection of defenders in one word. You know that's an important topic. You know very well that we have about 500,000 defenders. Only last year, several hundred defenders died of various types of disease in the city of Zagreb, so we don't know what type of disease it is and what those people died of. I'd like the Ministry of Health to make a little more account that, I'm not criticizing, but I think we have a few good ideas that could be realised in the future, regardless of governments and policies, because defenders are protecting health and social protection defenders beyond any party or political activity. In fact, we've spoken more than once about the fact that maybe we should build a rehabilitation center for defenders by modeling other countries, so we suggested Bizovac or Dujlo for example. We could do more things down there and secure and provide better health and social protection for the defenders. For example, we could do preventive checks. We do very little preventive examinations a year. And I'm saying I don't know what the defense attorneys are dying of and what kind of disease is attacking us. We could fight, so preventively fight and it would be one of the most important things, we could fight and we could see what caused it, we have a lot of people suffering from PTSD, see how and how to fight a serious disease that threatens relatively young people. We could also do a classic rehabilitation for defenders, for example. In the area of the Bizoba spas or somewhere where we come up with it, in agreement with four ministries, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Defence, could be fine-tuned, we have experienced doctors who spent many years in the Homeland War, who are very experienced and I think it would be a good, good, good try, and finally it could be, it could bring great success in that fight and health protection for the defenders themselves. Next, we could rehabilitate our soldiers returning from Afghanistan. Many times already, there are people who have spent two years in Afghanistan, four times they went up, it is a serious problem, we can also have a PTSD problem tomorrow with people who have come from Afghanistan, and it would be necessary for these people after returning, after taking a shift up, when they return to Croatia to a health center for a few days to talk,... talk, observe, and with the family how other countries do. [[You don't understand.]] We could also offer this to NATO member states who are very interested in doing something in this area, and are willing to pay it well, so that we can round up this good cycle and do a useful thing for the country, for defenders, and for doctors who could be profiled and professionally advanced in this business. We also need to think about a serious problem. The category of defenders has been out of 50, not a lot of people who are younger than 40 and a few years old, and we have a lot of problems today with people who are severely disabled, who have no one to worry about. They have a relatively good pension, but it's a question of who will care and care for these people when, now, the problem, and especially when they die, for example. parents. So we should think about making a few... homes, one, two, three for defenders, for heavy, for defenders regardless, he doesn't even have to be a disabled person, where they could gather, where they could have minimal social protection, also by modeling other countries, and that would also be very good and useful for that category of people who are really at risk in that health and social protection. [[You don't understand.]] We have a law that allows, which solved the good Law on Defences that has solved many and well the disabled, families of the dead, etc., but this category of health and social protection defenders I think we should all give more together and do more for that category of people who absolutely gave a lot of defenses to the Republic of Croatia, and today they are in a situation that we have a few spas in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but it has to wait a few months to, a man has to wait to come to order. This would be a good opportunity, this I am asking the Ministry of Health to start thinking about making something useful and quality for the defence population in matters of health and social protection in the Republic of Croatia. And while I'm at it, I'd like to ask the Ministry of Health Secretary what's with the maternity office in Sinj? It has been promised several times that it will be, that it will be reactivated... If they could do it again, they'd be able to go down again, they'd be able to give birth down there, but for now we don't have an answer, and I'd like to see what we're going to do, to give us the final answer whether it's going to work or not. [[You don't understand.]] People are interested, people are absolutely in having the birthplace down there be, it's worked so far, it's been functional, it's used a lot of the Cetina landscape, and I hope we'll have the understanding all together that it still works for the sake of the cetina landscape. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67056	Thank you. Corrections. Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67057	Thank you very much. I'd make it right, there's a lot of incorrect allegations, but I'll forgive my colleagues for not being a medical worker, and they want everything best for the defenders. It's not true that defenders don't have health care. Maybe not what you'd like, but 500 thousand defenders had and has health care like any citizen and citizen in this country. These 500 thousand defenders believe there are exhaustive medical findings both internal and cardiological and PTSD, it is not easy to write a report, and you yourself know that there is no defender who does not have such written findings. As for concern, care is also for defenders and all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and at an older age, because you can see that there has been an opening and assistance in the house of family centres, so everything is trying to provide everyone with one health care. And the reform of the health care system, like, that you speak in examples in America. Well, America doesn't have a good health care system like the Republic of Croatia, and it's in reform and it wants to change it. Hence, there are examples that we can help them, not us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67058	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67059	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Caparin corrected in any case, of course, there were several incorrect allegations, but certainly this particular one was stuck to do nothing about health and social protection and that was nothing... The defense attorney. [[You don't understand.]] That's absolutely incorrect. I witness this every day, that defenders achieve health care and the best guarantee for health care is a stable health system in that part. But while we are already in that section, it is also necessary to remind ourselves of the time between 2000 and 2003 when it was a memory of the rights and Croatian wartime disabled people and all other rights. So just remember to return the prosthetic aids, etc., please, nice things that things had to do later and correct. Of course, you mentioned the need of nursing homes and other forms of assistance to defenders, but remember just how much, I am thinking that this is a solution to housing opportunities for the needs of disabled defenders, this in any case in a different way and should naturally continue and insist on the promotion and health and all other protection of defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67060	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The incorrect quote is co-worker Kotromanovic, who said Croatian defenders are an endangered category in the use of health and social protection. That's not true, pal. I believe you know that very well. You, like me, are defenders and we move among defenders from day to day, and we know that if one area of the rights of Croatian defenders, Croatian military disabled persons are fully satisfied in Croatia, then it is just health care and all that Croatian defenders, and especially Croatian military people today have in Croatia. This is the area of health care, defenders had adequate health care, so doctors were with us and during the Homeland War, have today, and the special category are Croatian military disabled, Croatian defenders are ill and treated by PTSD who today have special treatment and health care in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67062	In 10 and 37, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Replica, Madam Representative Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67063	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Kotromanović, I'm confident in advance, and that's why I chose this way of communication in the replica with you, but I'm sure you'll agree if we say so and from the correction of the quote we could conclude that the defence population is protected with more levels. Not only through the system, regular system through the Ministry of Health and Social Care in the dimension of providing health services but also through a public institution called the Centre for Social Care when it comes to the exercise of the right of the Social Care Act. We are also witnessing that through the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity are established Centers for Psychosocial Assistance and Adaptation just as we can see that through associations, different associations in civil society, here they can also meet all of them and actually meet with self-help models. And I'll tell you as an example in Sibenik-Knin County, we don't have any suicides made in our county. And I'm going to tell you in conclusion that we definitely need to be very, very careful when we talk about and suggest a level of care for our defenders through nursing homes, arguing for the use of all non-institutional forms until we finally go to such institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67064	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Ante Kotromanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67065	... which only politicizes. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] So it's important to me, what does it matter to me? It's important to me, and it's important to me, if we can raise the system, it has nothing to do with 2001, '98, '91. And today in this year, this government has cut 10% of pensions. Well, that doesn't make sense, it's declassified and stupid to talk in my taste. But I think we need to raise counsel's health care to a higher level that it's an obligation for all of us, a moral obligation. What we can improve the system needs to be improved. Why settle for something if we can make a step more? Why, I wonder. Why are we gonna settle for this kind of protection? Of course every citizen has health care, it's okay and it's normal in this country. But let's take a step more. Let's do something to make something useful, something solid, something like other countries that's been working for years and we don't have. And it has nothing to do with politics. Nothing to do with politics, nothing to do with the left, the right, nothing to do with the right. It doesn't matter, it's bullshit. Let's do something useful for our defenders if we can, if we have the means, if we agree, and that's the intensity, and that was the goal of what I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67066	Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67067	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, there are polemics here about some things, and I would love it if we were to return to the foundation of the Act in Croatia, which is the Constitution. The Constitution in Article 4 states that in the Republic of Croatia, the state authority is governed by the principle of the division of the authorities in legislative, executive and judicial matters and is limited by the Constitution of guaranteed law to local and regional (regional) self-government. Therefore, executive, judicial and legislative authority is limited to the rights of citizens to local self-government. Article 134 The constitution is said to be units of local self-government, which are municipalities and cities, performing local work that directly achieves the rights and needs of citizens, and in particular jobs relating to settlements, housing, spatial and urban planning, municipal activity, child care, social care and primary health care. Primary health care and other jobs. So, the Constitution says that units of local self-government, which are municipalities and cities, are doing primary health care. Unfortunately, we have a situation where again and again we have an amendment to the law that speaks of primary health care and in which the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is completely ignored. So this law and this amendment to the law we're discussing today is absolutely unconstitutional. It is anti-constitutional because it is contrary to Article 134. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but it is also anti-constitutional in its content because it limits citizens' right to local self-government. Instead of restricting the executive and legislative power of the right of citizens to local self-government, the legislative authority here restricts citizens' right to local self-government on a proposal from the executive authority. And I beg you, once already read the Constitution at the Ministry of Health, look at what it says inside and give us laws that are in accordance with the Constitution. Because if the legislator wanted to change the Constitution in this content, then he would probably have done so in the last amendments to the Constitution because the chapter on local self-government was changed. Therefore, at that time someone read this chapter carefully because if we changed that chapter as regards citizens' right to vote and to be elected and elected in local self-government units, then he probably thought hard about who they would assign primary health care to. Since this provision hasn't changed in the last 20 years, then I assume all the legislative authorities have since the first constitution to date, since '93. To this day, they thought it should be in the jurisdiction of cities and municipalities. And I don't see any reason why the Department of Health has been ignoring it for 20 years or 17 years, and we're putting up with it. And we're now discussing here is enough time for a concession, not enough time for a concession, what a time limit for a concession. Gentlemen, the concession for primary health care, and health homes are probably primary health care, should only and exclusively assign local self-government units. They are the ones who need to speak as well as they should, because I don't see how the Minister of Health or the Mayor, better yet, can know where the doctor of family medicine should be and how he should be, who needs a concession. And that the mayor, especially the large cities spoken of by counterpart Adlesic, have no idea, have not been informed of it, nor know how the House of Health works, how the Emergency Medical Service works, or how it works at the end of the hospital. We have, in accordance with the decentralisation programme, changed some laws and set a time limit for large cities. Large cities are cities of county headquarters and cities with more than 35,000 inhabitants. And we transferred some powers to these great cities. Imagine that a large city can issue, for example, a building permit, but are unable to give a concession for primary health care. So what's more complicated? Is it more complicated to issue a building permit or to control and monitor this process or to grant a concession for primary health care? Is it more complicated to issue a concession, call for a concession for primary health care or provide fire protection in the area of the big city? Imagine the county has no need to worry about fire protection in the area of its county, but they know where there should be a concession for primary health care and where some of the doctors will be. So let's not put our heads in the sand and ignore what the Constitution says and let's give citizens the right to local self-government, give citizens the right to primary health care because when they need to organise and pay a course for future parents, then there is no county, when they need to ensure a split against HPV for girls, then there is no county, but when they need to redistribute money decentralised money for health care and then there is a county and then it is very good to do it. So, let's not talk about this or what, we have a Constitution to read the Constitution, we apply the Constitution, if someone is not satisfied with the Constitution, but let's not ignore the Constitution, the Constitution is something that is in force, it needs to be read, it needs to be consulted and it needs to be followed by the Constitution and it needs to be provided to the local self-government that it can have and should provide the local self-government with what it says in the Law of Local Self-Government that it can have or be. And we finally need to start distinguishing municipalities, cities, big cities and counties. It's not all the same, they don't all have the same administrative capacity, they don't all have the capacity for what someone thinks, but that's why we keep writing something into the law, and then we insist on not implementing and not applying those laws. Only part of what is written in the Law on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government applies to large cities. Which is in accordance with the Constitution, this is one of the biggest problems because this law is not only contrary to the Law on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government but is in contrast to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67068	Thank you. A few credentials and replicas. First is corrections, Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67069	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. According to counterpart Mršić, the mayor of large cities is that they have no idea about primary health care, organisation, office schedules, concessions for primary health care. Well, buddy, you also come from a big city, say, compared to smaller cities where we come from, I can say it's a disgrace to the mayor of big cities. If they really have no idea about primary health care, then in small areas we have excellent and open communication with health homes because it is the interest of our citizens to provide them with quality primary health care, let alone in large cities that are not daily in communication with health homes and to provide their citizens with quality primary health care. It's the shame of a mayor who has no idea about primary health care and not the health care system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67070	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67071	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Mršić, you've made several incorrect allegations, and I wouldn't compromise in this section, but you also said that this law ignores the Constitution. It is incorrect, these are the technical things that are being solved to improve health care in a particular area, as you said was the obligation. Furthermore, you said incorrectly that the minister and the mayor had no idea about health where they should be, as counterpart Huška said. Well that's absolutely incorrect, there's a defined network of health institutions and there's the end of the story. There's not a lot of stories, it's very clearly defined and written. And he says they're not able mayors or mayors to bring concessions, so it's not true, all the counties, 15 counties, you weren't at the beginning, 15 counties if someone's going to file a complaint in a particular area, who's going to stop it, so they can. And the fourth thing, as far as local self-government is concerned, it is mandatory to contribute to health care, and to HPV vaccination, in any case each of us is obliged to contribute to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67072	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67073	In fact, a number of incorrect allegations my colleagues have corrected, from not working under the Constitution, that the units of local self-government... One conclusion can be drawn from your debate, and you brought it out yourself, which is that the counties get money and that's how they earn money, so you'd like to make money. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] It is not about profit, but about the implementation of primary health care and at the level of the entire county, here you find the problem one that the county is the founder of all these institutions. It should really change a lot of laws to spend this on you. But the goal is for all of us that all citizens have equal health care whether they are in the larger city or in a smaller municipality, it is only a question of how much you will be able to co-operate with the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67074	Replications. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67075	You have well pointed out that when primary health care comes to responsibility for this situation, the state authority places the government on local and regional self-government, and the merits are attributed exclusively to the ministry, especially with regard to the reform. We are now correcting a law of bureaucratic nature again, and it is entirely irrelevant to the patients whether primary health care will be leased, concessions, and health homes in that form, as Europe now introduces it, we have destroyed them to the end by doing bureaucratic, administrative institutions and nothing more. What's more important to the patients and citizens of this country, is there enough primary health care doctors? Which means the net if it's not filled. Our network of ambulatorys that aren't filled. People complain that they are wandering from doctor to doctor and have no place to write because there are not enough doctors of primary health care, and now to get to the subject of pediatricians, as the network of pediatricians is filled, which is with gynecologists, whether there are enough gynecologists that women can choose and choose not only by number but also by quality. And now instead of discussing and the Ministry coming to boast that it's done a network review and filled the network, we need to fix their bad proposal, from last time that it got stuck somewhere. And now patients should be happy that it's no longer a lease but a concession, and the network remains unfulfilled and patients wander from doctor to doctor. Mothers and children are looking for pediatricians and women are looking for gynecologists. And we boast of the great reform of the judiciary, concessions, bravo. The municipalities, cities, counties are responsible for not fulfilling their obligations, and the ministry... is responsible for a successful reform. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67076	Thank you very much. You're out of time. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67077	Well, my colleague Lesar, I'm surprised at your surprise, and we've seen it especially from the correction of incorrect allegations. So to colleagues from the ruling majority, it doesn't matter what the law says. They think that the Constitution can write whatever it wants, and that their virtual organisation of health care is such that this is all available to all citizens in the area of the Republic of Croatia, so that they can abolish the Constitution because it is absolutely unnecessary. We as mayors of small, large cities, municipalities should go there to ask, to pray I don't know what to collect information, although in the Constitution it is our authority, and the power means that we are responsible, but the government has some right to decide, in planning, in reporting, in negotiating, in something that goes after that health system. Yeah. Thus, the policy of managing human potential, and one of the biggest problems of the Republic of Croatia that I was talking about a year ago in this House, is already a lack of doctors, and it is a doctor who finishes college, especially a specialist. Today in Croatia, more than 80 teams of pediatric teams are missing and talk about population policy, and having such primary health care for children in Croatia is completely absurd and somewhat immoral. But I'm sure if the big cities were to exercise their right to the Constitution on primary health care, to manage human potentials, to motivate, to scholarship, to go to study just as they would motivate completed doctors and specialists to come to primary health care or to work in hospitals. Unfortunately, we are excluded from the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67078	Thank you very much. You're out of time. Replica, the esteemed representative of Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67079	In your debate, you are calling on the ruling to return to sources, to return to the basic provisions of the Constitution, which guarantees citizens primary health care and the obligations and powers of local self-government units in the area of primary health care. I think you are asking too much of this authority because they themselves say that you see, although in these reform procedures they have incorporated the consent of the Minister for giving concessions which have proved to be a stumbling block and simply something that slows down and complicates the whole thing, so they themselves speak in the light of this bill's proposal that practice has shown that the implementation of the described procedure is demanding, complex and time-consuming, whatever it takes for citizens to do what the Constitution and the law belongs to, it is for power long and complex. When it comes to hitting a crowbar, there are masters who are not there. Also here in the explanation it is said that the complaints were filed by bidders in the area of 7 counties. And in July, they claim that the appeal has not ended. So who please decides by appeal? So you decide by appeal, and you're still justifying us that it hasn't been decided under those complaints. Furthermore, please tell me, how do you comment on the fact that no concessions are shared and you accuse others of that, units of local self-government, no matter where there are difficulties of that nature. But the urgency was that 70% of the jobs were performed by primary health care and 30% of the hospitals. Your success in the major reform procedure is that the hospitals now perform 61%. It's your turn in the health system, or order is only where patients wait to turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67080	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67081	So, I completely agree with you. Primary health care as well as local self-government must be closest to the citizens. And it is logical, therefore, that the person where it is primarily that first encounter with a doctor is in a place where he achieves or realizes some other needs. That's why those who wrote the Constitution have entered the Constitution to do it in local self-government. Well, it's not written in the Constitution, because there's just one order of jurisdiction for municipalities and cities. It was written in the Constitution so that citizens could exercise their right to health care. But they can't do it today for a whole series of reasons. One reason simply is because local self-government will be decided by the regional regional government by the ministry's dictatorship, where local self-government will be decided, as primary health care will be organised. Because you have a situation today that even the county can't get the equipment they should be able to get, but it must all go through the Ministry of Health, just as no criteria are known where and how expensive devices like magnetic resonances are obtained. Well, then you have a situation to get somewhere, and there's no need, and where there's a need doesn't come. Or you have counties like mine that even for a CT, we had to have humanitarian action to raise funds and buy a CT device. Therefore, if health care is to be made available to all, then citizens must know what they can count on as well as health institutions and their founders must know by what criteria public, clear, transparent and on equal terms the resources are allocated.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67082	Thank you. And a replica of the esteemed representative Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67083	You were talking about centralization, a really huge problem. Unfortunately, Croatia destroyed the extraordinary idea of Andrija Printar right in Croatia were the first homes of health and what is happening here today has caused serious consequences. Pressure on hospitals, etc. But if you take it, I'll only tell you the situation in Split. In Split, there are 3.3 beds in Zagreb 5.7. The total number of beds in Split per thousand inhabitants is 4.1 in Zagreb 8.5. So in Split, there is a particular terrible pressure on hospitals, on KBC. You have half the number of beds compared to Zagreb. It's a kind of centralization. At the same time, the total number of insurance workers on one medicine doctor in Split is 955 in Zagreb 481. So twice the pressure in Split the number of insurance companies on one doctor, the number of beds is double the number of beds, the primary protection is devastated and everything rushes towards the hospital which should not go and you are really right when you say that local self-government is not allowed to solve it. I think that's what you mentioned first, Article 134. The constitution, and when you talk about this like we talked about in Split, then you're being attacked by the director of the clinical hospital center with the most difficult ideological category bombs and what I know...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67084	Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67085	My colleague Caparin spoke of the equal right of everyone to health care, and that should be our goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67086	Thank you. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic is coming up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67087	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is this debate that opened up with this to say to Mršić's consideration and constitutional provisions, and in terms of health care, he reveals or raises several questions. Obviously, there is a problem, therefore, of centralisation of decision-making and money and decentralisation of health obligations. When it comes to primary health care, secondary health care, then it's said here there's been an inversion. So what we would expect and what was once a long time ago is the idea of Andrija Printar's primary health care so prevention carries the greatest burden of public health care, so hospitals are what are called secondary health care. In this country of ours with this kind of policy that started back in '93. I wouldn't mention periods as someone here likes to consider, this was in 2001, which was in 2003, led to the fact that the primary health care had definitely disintegrated. Look at the polypragmasia and practice, let's see what the Health House of Zagreb looks like and what it has of its functions. He's got a head office, and he's got a pharmacy. And what else? Let's take a look at the other homes of health, so-called Homes of health, I can say it now freely to the homes of health so-called. What's left of them with this kind of policy? Someone here, Kotromanovic, mentioned the counsel's health care and then someone returns to the 2003 decisions. I'm not defending anyone. Let's go back to Turkish times when our defenders went to treatment in Vienna, abroad. Well, we've come to mention what happened. Well, for eight years, you've been gentlemen here in power, you've had eight years to fix, to improve something called health care. And how far did we get? Simply this one administrative, bureaucratic, technical proposal of the law is just one new step that goes on to diverge further primary health care and then we use words like in agriculture. Whether it's a lease or a concession, whether it's a goat or a horn. What that means for a patient, that's the question. Now there are seven counties where there have been complaints, there are another 2300 pending concession requests. Who needs to get rid of them? Centralization is decision-making, centralization is money, and decentralisation is obligations. Well, it doesn't seem to execute those down there either if 2,000 unsettled concessions, and these we have appeal procedures. Where it got stuck, which was, a lease or a concession. And finally, what do we want with our health care system, what is the health care system, to whom does it serve: the patient, the concessionaries, the tenants, who? Whether he needs to be profitable or not, let's just define that once. Is this the prelude to concessioning hospitals, secondary health care? And the Czech Republic tried, she saw a frog duck and she wished for it, and then the health system collapsed in the Czech Republic. And here we mention France, Germany, I don't know what. If we're at a level, if we have a number of doctors, if we have a standard that has, say, a Czech Republic that has 500 residents per doctor, one Israel has even less. How much do we have? Mr. Secretary of State probably knows what our standard is. And we're introducing something, I said, in principle, I saw a toad where the horse ducks, and even she wanted a concession, a further privatisation, actually other words of privatisation, and then we have homes of health that are fragmented to, some of them have medical work, others don't, one goes looking for patients to get them to extend their driver's license in Djakov because it doesn't exist, for example. In Nasice. One goes in, Patronage one covers the ground another because one has a patronage, the other doesn't have a patronage, because it's not even an obligation to have one. The dental service exists in Slavonski Brod, but there is no such thing as somewhere else nearer. No dentist has a standing office from 15 o'clock to 7 a.m. in the area of Brod-Posavina County. ... Is that right? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, whose county is yours, ma'am. The county is yours, yes. Yes, it's yours. Where there are specialist and consular services, 80 pediatricians are missing in Croatia. How much of a dentist is missing as much as a gynecologist, and not to mention later, it's not about secondary health care where the other specialist services are. We'll introduce doctors, we've got examples in Pozega already, let's say in... So someone doesn't get me wrong if I don't speak discriminatoryly to my colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So one polypragmasia, one charm in Croatia is ruled instead of one arrangement, to finally benefit the patient, to the benefit of actually what the health system exists for. Someone here was talking about the polyclinic, especially Zadar, or more specifically. We also have an example of a ship's polyclinic waiting for the closure of a financial arrangement for the construction of a polyclinic, but that's part of a hospital in Slavonski Brod, so I wouldn't talk about it. I'm hoping the ministry will finally sign off and find the money for those 10 million kunas that are supposed to be missing. Speaking of which, I'm still going back to protection, health care and social defenders. It's said on this side of you that there's a lot of concern for the defenders, that I don't know who Mrs. Caparin is or who someone was talking about. But you see, I've already received a series of interventions from people who tell me that they've been given solutions that the poor supply of 1097 kn solutions before the new year of December 15th is abolished, and they're not invited to renew the procedure in terms of it. And it's a concern for defenders with those 1097 kn which supplies as social categories actually. That's terrible, that's terrible. Therefore, the fact that instead of primary healthcare care is 70% so the health problems of the public are now inverted that it, that primary health care has 40% interventions and secondary health care is 60, indicative. I assure you that my specialist, traumatic clinic at the hospital in Slavonski Brod as a sub-specialist has far more patients and works three times a week than any medical, medical primary health care. What happened? Why is there so much pressure on hospitals? Can't the ends be taken out by any doctor in primary medical care. Let's go. It's not a problem. Let's go. So, we've done and we've been pretending to be like this with the laws and these kind of bear-service solutions to health care, and patients aren't really doing well. Somehow they are getting sicker and somehow need secondary health care services or hospitals more and more. As long as we see it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67088	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First of all, she's an esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67089	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's a series of incorrect allegations. Mostly his, one of the incorrect allegations is the full primary health care is breaking up, we're moving on to the dispersal of health care. What's this system for, what's health care? From all of this, I'm wondering what you're doing as a doctor in this health care after this discussion of yours. It's incorrect for them to part. We can't go back, not even back in time for Andrija Printer. The Andrija Printer can be taught, but it can't be returned at that time. And you, I'm a very good student and don't throw it at me. Let me speak. And we sir can't go back on. [[Don't throw it out of the bench! Don't throw it out of the bench, please.]] I'm correcting an incorrect one. We can't go back in time, I won't look at him anymore because he's throwing it at me and I'm correcting him, in time for Mr. Andrija Stamper. We can learn from him. The whole of Europe is making a concession and it's turned out to be a good thing. And this law is just technical. And if that number of doctors went to the concession, then a colleague can't speak against the concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67090	Thank you very much. Time's up. Take care of the weather. And the correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Grubisic, you have made several incorrect allegations. I'll also look back at this one where you said this law is going to part primary health care. That's incorrect. This law therefore goes to the end of this concession procedure. That's clear and we've all discussed it further. In the second part, it is going to regulate the working-law status of those colleagues who have not decided on a concession. There's about ten percent of them, and that's God's thanks. And now you're saying in these circumstances it's not nice to remember some time. And I remember a dear colleague where these same doctors, our colleagues from 2000 to 2003, were given a job obligation. I remember a time when nurses had their wages cut. Right? They were reduced. And then you wonder what health care is for. Health care serves to ensure quality and available healthcare for each of our citizens and according to which parameters, we are in a 25-seat position in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67092	Thank you. And we have one replica, the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67093	You started and finished your discussion and as a doctor, wondering how far we got and determined how the primary health care on the one hand was being distributed, and on the other hand centralised. And indeed, you shouldn't be a doctor, nor should a patient see that this is exactly what you said and that our health care is sick. It is difficult to treat these diseases, rather than treat them with such inaction and inaction by the ministry and the entire government metastasizing. When it was seen that there were no concessions that the government had been doing for two years. And now he calls this bill technical. This is what patients, human fates, entire families are behind, and you are technical or not ruling. And that's something that's absolutely inadmissible. I have to say, and look back at the problem you've also been talking about giving specializations and lack of specialists. How are they shared, please in Croatia? It's still wound cancer and the area of corruption at the highest level. Namely, in the city of Zadar since '45. years have never been a child without a pediatrician, ever. Now, after your reform, how you like to admire yourself, you must extend this working relationship just so that the city of Zadar does not, please, lose its pediatrician. The town of Zadar does not have a pediatrician, but there are specialists who have been specializing in grandmothers and uncles who are unnecessary, who have excesses. And the pediatrician doctor's gone. It's your fight against corruption until your last breath.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67094	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Anticevic, you've actually given me a line and you've responded partly to these to say the unblemished replicas, i.e. a pardon for correcting the inaccuracies of the gentlemen of HDZ. Well, it's clear to everyone here but them, that our health care, or primary health care, is because patients have to walk from the merciless to the unloved since '93. the years they actually wrote it and wanted it to be. I don't mind saying crossing in terms, so privatisation, etc. But we had to take care of the health care of the citizens. It had to be taken care of exactly the availability. I have also cited several examples that you have not denied by the HDZ gentlemen. And the fact that they're given into specializations as they please, as well as anyone who looks like it's already such a famous story that there's no Mrs. Anticevic about what to talk about. It's in all the county. So, those that are fully known in the transmission of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67096	Thank you. We're moving on with the debate. And it is up to the honourable representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I believe there will be some incorrect allegations, corrections, etc., but good. Croatian healthcare seems to have worked best in war conditions. I also have to give recognition from this place to the Minister of War of Croatian Health, Prof. Andri Hebrang. What the Croatian health care in the Homeland War did and did was indeed a sacred example of good organizations, as well as a selfless pawn of all Croatian health workers. But as well as Prof. Hebrang is credited with the excellent functioning of war sanity, and so is Prof. Hebrang is the most responsible person for what is happening today with Croatian health care. The name of the distinguished Croatian doctor is repeatedly mentioned here, and the renowned and world-renowned Andrija Stampar, a man who is one of the founders of the World Health Organization and the first chairman of the World Health Organization Assembly in Geneva in 1948. So it is not possible that the whole world recognized the importance and role of this great Croatian medicine, and that someone in Croatia had thought to destroy a model that worked very well. And what I'm saying can't be called regrets for the former system. On the contrary. We must be aware that even the creation of the Croatian state did not change everything, nor did it need to change what worked well. And the printing model of the health care system in the form of a home health system is one of the best models of the functioning of primary health care that has existed in these areas as well as much wider as ever. And we don't have to run away from it being a mistake. Coli Mršić also talked about how with this way, here are even jeopardizing constitutional provisions, and that is true, and while there were health homes in the form in which they existed, then here was the satisfaction I would say in the best possible way and this constitutional provision that Mršić spoke of, about the responsibility, importance and potential of the local community's influence on the health system in his area. But the problems of Croatian health continued after Minister Hebrang. One of the biggest problems appeared at the time of Minister Ljubicic, predecessor of today's Minister Dr. Milinovic. In his time, he thought of doing something that no minister in the Croatian government had ever done, signed and signed, and it should have been done, with the social partners, a collective contract given the rights of healthcare professionals, but did not do something that was a prerequisite for the successful implementation of this, in the state budget he did not provide the funds for it. And we got a collective contract that became a noose around the neck and health care institutions, but unfortunately health care professionals themselves, because for respecting the rights of that collective contract the health care institution simply had no money, they began to do business with growing losses, and thus even those fundamental rights of health care professionals were brought in to pay. An explanation that is even in writing, at the time I was deputy mayor, and we pointed out by letter to the Minister at the time to the danger of this collective contract without unsecured funds. We got a written answer that we didn't understand because these assets were secured in the head and in the value of the point. Well, I think someone wrote it to the minister, because I don't think he'd be as a highly educated man as he could possibly have thought, let alone write it. I think someone just pushed it like a document and signed it. Someone from the ministry from a low-ranking clerk or a tenant. This collective contract, therefore, needed to provide funds for regresses, and for jubilee prizes, and for Christmases, and for gifts for children, and for funds from nowhere. Minister Milinovic did something to stabilise the hospital system. I think we can agree on that. But when it comes to the functioning of primary health care, then it must be said that this ministry today is completely lost, and when it comes to primary health care, not only family medicine, but also emergency medical care, so here's what's going on with Sanitary Transport has to be reported, and there's no telling where it's going to go or what it's going to be. When it comes to Slavonia and Baranja, I must say that we are in a specific situation again, and I will ask the question, I hope that you will keep your promise to return the maternity home to Đakovo, but I am also asking the question as to how it is possible that in our Croatian state, the Croatian Ministry of Health does not want to pay the funds to the homes of health in Bela Manastir and Osijek that have forced them to take over after the peaceful reintegration of all the workers who were then found there without providing funds for their salaries. And that even today these homes of health are suing our own ministry. It is a disgrace to that ministry, but I would also say all Croatian governments. When it comes to the responsibilities of the county, then I have something special to underline. Countys are responsible for health institutions and their business and for covering losses, but they have no influence in the process of contracting with HZZO. And one of the biggest problems in the health system is HZZO. An institution that has an absolute monopoly, which gives contracts in principle take or leave. An institution that, as if it existed for itself, pays its employees till the 5th of the month, and pays healthcare institutions late, so I would say in almost immeasurable proportions. Especially in the primary, especially the specialist-consular health care. And Slavonia and Baranja, in the end only, has another particular problem also when it comes to the lack of a doctor. The doctor of all profiles is missing, but I'd like to ask the secretary of state how is possible, Mr. Secretary of State, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67098	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67099	Here, I will finish with the question, how is it possible that no orthodontic specialization has come to Slavonia and Baranja and we do not have orthodontics at the moment, that two streets in Zagreb have more orthodontics than the whole of Slavonia and Baranja?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67100	Thank you very much. Now we have 3 corrections of the incorrect quote and 3 replicas. The first is the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague didn't stick to today's subject at all, but I'd like to correct his claim that he blames professor. Hebrang for his time when he was minister that he had not provided funds to honor the collective contract. It's completely incorrect! At the time I was the Director of the General Hospital in Bjelovar, I had a limit with which I could pay and pay, so everything that was written in the collective contract. It was up to you director whether you would be able to organize a job, how to organize a service, how to get a job, how to organize medicines. So it was all in the capacity of the director. But the funds were secured and there was no doctor or person who had not received the salary at the time and that the decisions of the collective contract were not respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67102	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Buric made several incorrect allegations, but one was correct. He said there would be a correction to incorrect allegations. And he incorrectly said that the signing of a collective contract created a noose around the door of the health system and that it was not respected. Incorrectly, my colleague Caparin corrected him in that section so I wouldn't repeat myself. And secondly, Minister Milinovic was lost to the functioning of primary health care, and mostly emergency medicine. Well, you had to follow your colleague, dear, in the health system reform project, we have been witnessing emergency medical reform, and these days we are also witnessing the establishment of the Emergency Medicine Department in the counties, the purchase of sanitary vehicles, etc. So under the circumstances when the health system's losses were 2 billion a year, when the health system is stabilised it is therefore creating circumstances and conditions that the health system can function and, of course, give us adequate health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67104	Thank you very much. And the correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67105	Thank you very much. I can't tell from my colleague what system he's coming from except the party he belongs to, so I don't know how he can talk about late pay in the hospital healthcare system that he doesn't even talk about. And a colleague, but what I can partly agree with you because I am from Slavonia, which has no orthodontists, is the fact that it is not true that there are no specialists in Croatia, but it is obvious that they are not well distributed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67106	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. First is Honourable Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67107	Thank you very much. I would rather replicate Mrs. Susani Bilić Vardić that she schedules because she is in the Management Council of the hospital specialist, and she is deploying them, but first of all I would refer to the replica of my colleague Dinko Buric who said that in the war the health care worked very well, if not excellent. It is true that health care worked well in the war, it is true that people were with enthusiasm and elan doing their job in war hospitals, in health homes, and wherever war hospitals were formed. It is also true that I had a work obligation, I can say with pride, and not how someone here insinuates I don't know the work obligation as something ugly because, according to this work obligation with 30 colleagues, I was still in BiH literally in Zepč for 3 months in a piece, unlike many of you who sat here in Zagreb and hid elsewhere in '94. A year. Furthermore, Mr Buric spoke about the fact that the Ministry of Health did not even know about the payments and contracts, he did not even realize that there was a peaceful reintegration of the whole Baranja, and then the part of Podunje and that it was not respected, and in the sense of decentralisation of funds from the ministry, so from the state to the county that further distributes these funds to the homes of health and other health institutions, and in particular this applies to the Vukovar-Srijem County and Osijek-Baranja County. So, for someone, the reintegration came along on 01.01 a long time ago.'98, and it's obviously not for someone. In particular, when money is to be allocated to these areas which today are areas of special national concern. Slavonic Ship is at the time of war
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67108	Time. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67109	Yeah, yeah. He was the greatest war hospital of the time and people were working with elana and enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67111	After that, everything changed thanks to politics and hospital politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67112	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you very much. It's time for the replica, Your Honor... You didn't lift anything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is up to the distinguished representative Zdenko Franić, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67113	You mentioned fellow Buric that public health is one of the most successful models. I would dare say that the doctrine of public health Andrija Printar is the most successful model of public health and probably the most spectacular export product of the Republic of Croatia of all time that many countries that exceed a billion inhabitants, India, China, are today treated. It's interesting that we did it as authors through doctors, professors, doctors, academics of Andrija Printar, well destroyed. The Institute for Medical Research and Labour Medicine acts as a lever of public health. The second largest institute in the Republic of Croatia, but interestingly, in this model it is also excluded as a provider of territorial health services and in Croatia there is no one more qualified than IMI. Let's think of lead poisoning right in Slavonia tied to that pepper, and some so-called. natural preparations all these people ended up in the Department of the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine, successfully diagnosed and cured. But now it's ruined, it's gone. Just another small example of how the health care disaster occurred in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67114	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67115	Thank you. It's exactly what you said, and it may be best to bear witness to that and to the definition of health that Dr. The press, which is still valid today, is that it is both physical and psychological and social well-being, not just the absence of disease. And when we talk about what we did with his model then it can be said that it is almost incredible that we managed to bring it down and it seems to me that it was one of the first sales of the Croatian National Treasure after the independence of the Croatian state. And just to say briefly about the collective contract, it's still noose around the neck, and Mrs. Susani Vardic would say, you said you don't know where we're coming from, I don't know where you live, because your salary comes regularly and ask if it comes from regular healthcare professionals, especially those private healthcare professionals in specialist-consular health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67116	Thank you very much. We have a further replica, the esteemed representative of Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67117	Dear Dr. Buric spoke of enthusiasm that was in effect during the war, and it was really necessary in those days, but I would say that unfortunately the health system today is not resting on good laws and good initiatives by the authorities, but remains exclusively on the enthusiasm of health workers. I think you need to thank them in some way and as generous as patients who have patience. The other day, I had a chance to talk to my colleagues from primary health care, and it actually shocked me to what extent they were willing to excitate the instructions they received from the Ministry so that they wouldn't damage their patients. So, to satisfy some form expected of them, the patient gets everything that belongs to him. We here today boast that Croatia is 25th in quality health care, but unfortunately this is the case, despite what the rulings serve in health care, or because of the enthusiasm of health workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67118	Thank you. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67119	Much of what you said is exactly what you said, and as proof it may be best to remember the 2011 state budget, what kind of relationship this Ministry and this Government of the Republic of Croatia has to do with the health of its citizens, the best way to say is that in this year, there has been a reduction in budgets compared to last year by 700 million kuna. It may have been a small step back for you at the Ministry of Health, but be assured that it was a big step backwards in the rights and opportunities of health care for Croatian patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67120	Thank you. Final State Secretary esteemed Jurkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67121	I would like to thank Mr. President, the honourable MPs and the MPs. I mean, there's been a lot of debate, I'd say more about the health system than these legal proposals, so I'm going to try to be very brief and take a turn. As far as the emergency medical network is concerned, I would point out to a respected representative that it is not only about the adoption of a network, teams of emergency medicine that will be brought in by the end of the month, the proposal is over and it is just in progress that the local community agrees with the emergency medicine office with representatives of cities and counties. I really hope that this process will be over by the end of this week and that by the end of next month we will bring the network. The establishment of 7 emergency medicine institutions is under way, the law stipulates that emergency medical services are established until 31. On the 12th of this year, therefore, after the adoption of the network and these other delusions, I am convinced that they will be established within the prescribed legal deadline. As far as concessions for medical work teams are concerned. So, I would like to point out that there are 130 working medical teams in Croatia, due to the merger under the Croatian government anti-recession programme, the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work, the network has not yet been delivered, but the proposal has been sent from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute for the Ministry of Health and after further consultations and finishing will certainly be brought by the Minister and the network by the end of this month. The deadline is 30 June for the award of concessions. Since it is 130 teams, given that we have experience in primary health care, I am also convinced that this is quite sufficient time for concessions in the medical work system to be called by law. Here I owe one apology, so I said there were four thousand concessions in the RH 30 complaints. We've further checked, it's not 30, it's 17, so much for those who say the system doesn't work. I really think it's in one procedure the smallest possible number of complaints. And I have to send a reply here to the distinguished representative who was the minister of justice, I was really a little surprised that the distinguished representative does not know that the complaints are solved so the State Commission appointed by this body, this High House of the Republic of Croatia, and that the Ministry of Health cannot in any way affect the dynamics of the solution to the appeal. I agree completely with Honorable Representative Adlesic. This is a good proposal, a guideline and a ministry will guide your proposal to the mayors, to establish co-operation with mayors and mayors, mainly with mayors of large cities because they really must participate actively in planning, evolution and implementing health care in their area. Our proposal is we recognize it, we agree with it, our proposal was to strengthen this functioning through health advice. Health advice here we have now received and this information has been established in all counties and I really hope through this additional guidance to the mayors that you have proposed, and I say the Ministry of Health will send it to all counties as soon as possible and give such guidance through this institution of the Health Council I hope that we will encourage this cooperation, because the relationship between local self-government and regional self-government will indeed be necessary, cooperation in the field of health care is necessary, it is inevitable, good co-operation between mayors, mayors and mayors is necessary for the implementation of the primary health care system, because the concession system is an additional step in the decentralisation of the health system and in what the article provides, and that primary health care is at the level of the area self-government or local self-government. Is, as you know, this new law of concessions enquiries the units of the regional administration. I cannot really discuss here whether certain articles of the law are in accordance with the Constitution, but I remind the distinguished MPs that we have received a positive opinion in the reform of the health system and the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the Committee for the Legislatives of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. And I would remind the honourable representative Mršić once again of article 135, which he stated but only in part, so the first paragraph. However, the second paragraph of this article also states that units are regional or regional self-government performing tasks of regional or regional importance, and in particular those relating to education, health, spatial and urban planning. So, units of regional and regional self-government. So, I don't think this kind of health care organization is at primary health care level, but secondary hospitals are also owned by units of the area's self-government unconstitutional. And once again, I remind you that we have both received a positive opinion from both the Government and the Parliament, or from their offices and committees. However, it is certain that property is always to be discussed, that we can always discuss it. However, I would like to remind some other respected MPs that the Republic of Croatia has 500 units of local self-government. If the units of the district self-government were not the owners of health institutions, the question arises whether the organisation of a system with 500 health institutions, so if each city or municipality in the Republic of Croatia, each mayor or mayor wishes in their own, and probably wishes, in his unit of local self-government would have a health care institution, would such an organisation that would involve nearly 500 healthcare institutions be rational and would, as such, meet all the specifics required by the health care of the population of the Republic of Croatia and ultimately whether the Republic of Croatia would have its economic potential and could hold such a huge institutional apparatus? As far as Polyclinic Zadar is concerned, the answer to the esteemed representative. True, the Ministry of Health has also provided sufficient resources for the completion of the Zadar Poliklinic in its budget this year. I would like to point out to the distinguished MPs that this is an investment of 150 million kuna. Why am I saying that? Because we have come to the realization that there are important derogations from both the Public Procurement Act and the contract signed by the Ministry of Health with the performer and the hospital that called for a tender for project documentation and with the designer. We informed the State's Attorney's Office, we acted completely transparently and in accordance with the policies of the State's Attorney's Office and suspended the performance of the work on the Zadar Poliklinic until formal legal conditions were established. So we think it is much better to finish the project in a quality way but in accordance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, so if you want with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme in the fight against corruption, it is better to question the application of certain legal regulations and quality of the works carried out. It is absolutely certain that, again and in accordance with the instructions of the State Attorney's Office, we will continue to work on the Zadar Poliklinica as soon as valid conditions are created, and the funds in the budget of the Ministry of Health for this facility are secured. The question of the birthplace of Sinj was also asked here. I would only point out that we, i.e. the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, are financing the cold... All this time, and Sinj's maternity home, as well as three remaining maternity homes in Split-Dalmatia County, has been suspended for reasons that did not meet the basic minimum technical conditions prescribed by the profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some maternity homes had no permanent gynecologist, no anaesthesiologist, no possibility of operational completion of delivery by surgery, and thus there was the possibility of endangering the lives of both pregnant women and children. The minister is precisely for these reasons, and when conditions were created, and conditions were created, let us not forget that only 30 or 40 km from Sinj, so in Split last year we opened one of the most modern birthplaces not in Croatia but in Europe in which 300 million kuna was invested. So I am now asking you respected representatives, who would have this country, which would have allowed the Minister of Health only 30 km from such a new birthplace that meets all the technical, spatial and professional conditions to work on a single birthplace that does not meet even the minimum requirements and thus puts citizens and citizens of Sinj at risk. But also, by the end of the third month, so somewhere until 15.3. The Ministry of Health will open a tender for the construction of the Sinj maternity centre, the construction of a project documentation is under way, and the maternity office will be open when spatial, technical and professional conditions are created that this activity can be uninterrupted. The Croatian Health Insurance Institute is also mentioned here. I would just point out that for the first time the Croatian Health Insurance Office has no debt. I am also speaking here as president of the Management Council of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. We inherited a debt of over a billion and 200 million kuna, for the first time this year the final bill will show that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has almost no debt and this is a contribution to the health system reform and the stabilisation of the health system in the Republic of Croatia. And indeed, according to my data, and I would like you to really tell me what health care facilities these are, which are hospitals, which are primary health care doctors, which are health homes where the Health Insurance Office didn't pay to hospitals until the 10th of the month, and primary health care until the 15th of the month, i.e. for special services within contractual deadlines. Therefore, the Croatian Health Insurance Office pays its obligations within the framework of the agreed deadlines. And if there's been an excess, I, as President of the Governing Council, apologize here, and I will urgently do everything to make possible, noting possible excesses, because it's possible that it might happen, I don't know about it, that within these deadlines that I've been talking about, and that case is resolved. We were also talking about the lack of a doctor and then just one piece of information, there was a lot of it. So in 2003, Croatia had 7993 doctors in both primary and secondary and tertiary healthcare, in 2009 Croatia has 9120 doctors. So over the past seven years we have done everything possible to give the Croatian health system a letter and a number of 1400 doctors more. And someone said from respected MPs that neither should I, nor do I want to go back to the past, but I must remind myself that in 2003, the then government of the Republic of Croatia, where the distinguished representative was sitting, was the minister who asked this question, brought a ban on public service employment, including a ban on the employment of a doctor. We changed it after 2004 and employed 1400 more doctors in the Croatian healthcare system. And finally, I thank you for this very effective debate. We have indeed recorded everything, we will do everything possible to make the Croatian health system even more effective. It is no accident that the Croatian healthcare system is 25th place despite the fact that the basis of each health system is an economic background. And I would remind only that Croatia today spends around 1000 euros per capita for healthcare, that Slovenia spends around 1500, and that Austria already spends more than 4000 inhabitants, and we, according to health outcomes and health care organisations, finally and thanks to the health reform of Minister Milinović, maintained the stability of such a system that despite all the unfavourable movements we have had in recent years and this unfavourable economic basis which I say is a condition for a stable health system, maintained and improved the health system in its place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67122	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67123	Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption, so first of all, it's article 134, not 135. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and secondly, it unequivocally says exactly what I said, which is that primary health care is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, and what is of regional importance is in the jurisdiction of the county hospitals so the county hospitals are in the jurisdiction of the county. And where there will be a quarter doctor thank God has nothing to do with regional health policy and it should be decided at a local self-government level. So you need to read the Constitution of both paragraphs and you will see a big, big difference between primary health care and health care as regional protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67124	Thank you. And a second correction to the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67125	The secretary of state mentions the fight against corruption in Zadar. So you're not saying there's corruption in Zadar, are there? But something else intrigued me. You mention that 150 million kuna is provided for a polyclinic in Zadar. But how much for a pulse general hospital that's being built I don't know how many and never a single kuna from the state budget comes into these environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67126	This is the correction of an incorrect allegation, not a replica of an esteemed representative. Your Honor, what are you correcting? Thank you very much. We have to make it right. We have to hold on. Thank you very much. You can ask him that later, but not through this system. He can't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67127	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Let's get on with it. To vote. Score. I find that with 89 votes for and 8 abstentions, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67128	And we're going to point two. It is - Proposal for a law on protection against light pollution, first reading, P.Z. No. 699. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Nikola Ružinski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This bill is adopted or proposed with the aim of protecting the environment, because light pollution and light can be one of the environmental pressures, plant pressures, animal life, human safety. It is both energy efficiency and electricity consumption for lighting. It's about production, it's about the protection of the environment in the treatment of waste. So these are all the parts that are contained in this law. This law deals with pollution caused by external lighting. Therefore, external lighting on roads, in public spaces, at railway stations, at ports, at airports, at sports playgrounds, in production plants located in the open, but also in the section related to the lighting of cultural monuments. The principles set out in this law are, there are several, and one of them is energy efficiency. This law calls into question the possibility of using lighting that is not energy-efficient and proposes to support energy-efficient lighting, lighting produced in the best technological way. The law speaks of the vindication of light. So the benefit must be greater than the damage. Optimisation that is extremely important in lighting and restrictions that are necessary for this pollution to be minimal in relation to certain environmental situations. The entities listed here in this law that should ensure the implementation of the law are starting from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the operators that produce to us citizens who use lighting. Anti-pollution measures. So, this law I have to say is basically a technical law at a high level and it talks about a system of implementing measures to protect against pollution. The adoption of a regulation and regulations which should be detailed, but also on measures to protect the waste of light, the light of the night sky, prescribes continuous measurements, the availability of data, protection from low-lighted parts, prescribes action plans in the implementation of this law. The law also obliges equipment manufacturers to use the best techniques possible. So, to use lighting bodies and systems that consume the least energy. And also to use materials that are thus subject to recycling or friendly to the environment and to enable the use of these materials. The law wouldn't be the law if it didn't prescribe certain criminal provisions. Here in this law mentions penalties for those who do not comply with the legal provisions amounting to 15 to 30000 kuna for a responsible person, and from 50 to 100000 kuna for the legal person to implement this law. The law is scheduled to take place until 1.7 this year. After that, about a year is the time limit for the adoption of the Regulation and the regulations and thereafter for five years until the deadline for implementation. Therefore, the obligations prescribed by this law replace existing inefficient and unacceptable lighting systems for about 7 years from today. Clear for new projects, the new programmes have been subject to the obligation since the day the law came into force. Here I would, Mr. Vice President, so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67130	Thank the Secretary of State for the additional opening argument. Are the reporters from the board meeting looking? Yeah. Environmental Protection Committee, distinguished colleague Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67131	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director, MPs and MPs. At its 44th session held on 2 February 2011, the Committee on Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law on protection against light pollution submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 7 January 2011. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as the home working body. In the opening statement of Prof. Dr. Nikola Ruzhinski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction explained the starting points and objectives of the law in question. Among other things, he highlighted the question of the impact of light pollution on the environment, nature, and human health. In particular, he pointed out the energy efficiency measures to be implemented through the obligation to apply the best available techniques, as well as the obligation to apply the provisions of the Local Administration Units Act. The debate, which was followed by the representatives of the Green Action and the Croatian lighting society, highlighted the justification and satisfaction that the problem in question is regulated by law. It points out the need for significant investments in the reconstruction and modernisation of infrastructure and the possible inability to adapt within a period of 5 years, solely because of the financial burden to be borne by local self-government units. A number of proposals to implement the law in question as easily as possible and with a less financial effort for local self-government units, as well as a series of proposals to help Croatian producers take advantage of the opportunity to sell their products in accordance with the required standards. It is also pointed out that the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund has so far funded 165 public lighting projects worth around 140 million kuna, in 147 cities and municipalities, with around 63 million kunas of which 40.5 million kuna has already been paid. It is also proposed to establish a real state of lighting when planning for the development of infrastructure renewal, to set flexible deadlines and ratios of necessary investments in accordance with the state and financial opportunities of local self-government units. The debate is concluded by the view that all the proposals and remarks made to the law need to be discussed and the quality text of the final draft law prepared. After the debate was held, the Committee on Environmental Protection decided, with 7 votes in favour and 2 votes abstention, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Lightpollution, noting that the Resort Ministry has made any observations expressed in the debate as well as material submissions to the Committee to examine and debate, and those it assessed as eligible to be included in the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67132	There are no more board applications. We're going to a club debate. The first checked in with the IDS club, and the esteemed colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67133	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yeah, the law is absolutely fine. Here's the first line I'm going to say, now we're talking in benches. But I'm just asking myself if there's a place here, in this law too, let's say some hidden intention. Yes, a hidden intention. The law is great, but if there's a hidden intention. And that unfortunate law, the good law on bottles eventually turned out to have caused damage to the country of 600 million kuna, and that Mladneo is in prison. And now let me finish. That the law is good, and here's what these guys are telling me, who work in the Vishnjan starry, and they insist on it themselves, and they insist on it, now just to mention the Vishnian starry, I've now pulled out a thousand 750 asteroids, the last 20, 21.10.2010, two comets, 10,000 other celestial bodies, the 13th most productive star in the world to discover asteroids. I will not say how much the state budget supports them, but surely one, under quotes, is perhaps one of the most famous scientific institutions outside the Republic of Croatia. In front of them are NASA-not stars, I don't know those maybe in Moscow or Vienna, London, or somewhere else. Here they also insist on replacing existing lighting. And indeed, I would, for example, introduce a deadline of 1.1.2012 that any new system that will be used in that public lighting system will be, I will call it an ecological light bulb. But also these new systems are 20, 30, 40 or 50 or 100% more expensive than the existing ones, and that difference between these old bodies on one hand, and these new ones let the state take over. That's right. That's right, Mr. Representative, the state, and I think that would be fair, because it's going to be one huge one, and later I'm going to say how, because it's going to be one huge expense to local self-government. It's easy to transfer the burden to one pauperized, impoverished local self-government, but now there's some difference in these lighting bodies being borne by the state. All of us here are for this law, green as well, before I mentioned people who work at the Vishnjan starhouse, and they absolutely so, I suppose, and citizens, but electricity or public lighting is one of the biggest costs of local self-government. So let the state help her. How can the state help? So let's say for these, these lighting bodies are reduced by VAT from 23 to 10%. I think that would be fair, I think it would be possible, and I don't think it would, that it wouldn't even be a state budget just to feel it. On the other hand, I'm afraid that we are favouring these legal solutions to some economic operators, some monopolies, etc. Behind each of our laws is some hidden intention. I mentioned a little while ago, maybe when this conflict of interest comes to order, I'm going to do some other ones, the one about those bottles that we've, or whose law we've cleared the roads with, but we've done damage to the state to 600 million kuna. It's a great law, but it's too bad. So behind every law in the Republic of Croatia stands an importer, stands a successful businessman, stands some monopolies. For these people, laws are written, we in good faith or in the intention of adopting those laws, and then practice simply shows what was the background of adopting such a law. Yes, as we did these days, we could see for ourselves at the company of one of the ministers. So this law, it's not controversial, should be supported. Let's say every new light bulb is ecological, let's not create that pollution, but the problem is that here is said in these transitional and final provisions that these bulbs should be completely replaced over a period of 5 years. Will it be possible to doubt who will bear this expense? Mostly local. What? ... Well, that's not possible. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Cost to bear local self-government. Why isn't it possible or possible? Just a little bit, I think this is Article 38, an existing public lighting which, with technical characteristics and technology in use, is contrary to the provisions of this law and the implementing regulation of this law should be replaced or properly laid down within 5 years from the date of entry into force of the Regulation referred to in Article 15(2) of this Law. And the law we'll adopt 1 means I don't know which, now this year, regulation will be passed in some reasonable time, I guess I don't know for a few months or six months. So it's my only problem with this law. So this one hidden intention, and on the other hand, the dragon provisions for those environments of local self-government, actually which, or business entities, does not respect. So for the end, the law is fine, we'll vote yes. Every new body should be ecological, let the state with a VAT reduction finance this one project, but I am afraid that time will show that these legal solutions are also favourable to some Croatian monopoly. This should be feared, and through such a form we do not need to create privileged business entities because one job in a monopoly company is 5 to 10 jobs in enterprises that would otherwise be engaged in this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67134	Thank you very much. We now have three applications for correction of the quote. First of all, dear colleague Mirela Holly, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67135	Thank you, Vice President. So I'm going to correct a few incorrect allegations from fellow Caine. First of all, it is not under the law that these provisions, which concern packaging waste, are already based on the Regulation on packaging waste, and I would like to point out that all the difficulties involved in the fund are, in fact, derived from the Regulation, and that will certainly show time and investigation. Because these rules are exactly the ones that brought such great harm. In addition, the damage caused by the fund based on the implementation of the Regulation on packaging waste was not 600 million kuna but more than 700 million kuna. It should also be pointed out that it is definitely the way in which laws are actually laid down, the Environmental Protection Act and the Waste Act were not disputed, but it is precisely the disputed sublegal acts brought by the Minister, or by the Ministers of Environmental Protection, that is to stress a significant difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67136	Thank you very much. Here's your esteemed colleague, you've reached out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to a number of incorrect allegations, and apparently not knowing the matter of fellow Cain has actually forced me to correct it. First of all, I agree, I wanted to fix it, but my colleague Holly fixed it for the Regulations. Secondly, the law says there are some monopolies behind the law, someone who will get a monopoly on it. Well, my colleague Cain, you're an advocate here, you keep saying we're not doing anything in terms of economic recovery. So this is the chance of economic recovery of producers in Croatia who can compete equally in public procurement and be encouraged by new production, production of new lighting bodies. And you're talking about some monopoly. Still, obviously you don't know the matter because you claim that the government should help rebuild it. Well, the government is already supporting this restoration. 147 cities, I'll tell you later in the debate, have already approached that restoration. Between them and my city, and the government co-financed 40 million. It means that the government is already involved in all of this. You're showing something that I've been redesigned with, and I have to say it here in public. [[She obviously doesn't know the matter.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67138	Thank you. ... So he says that in a couple of years he's... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] My colleague Box, you wanted to correct the quote. [[Because of a loud announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Cain's told these legal decisions we favour certain stakeholders. Well, my colleague Cain, I think it's sad... And I wrote down what you said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think it is sad to be a representative in the Croatian Parliament and to fight back for Croatian companies, means to counter the earnings of Croatian workers in Croatia. I don't know if you're aware of what you said or didn't say. Because we should perhaps be importing from Serbia or Austria lighting bodies, according to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67140	At the end of the correction of all allegations, it is obvious that everyone has an opinion. But we're moving on with club opinions. It's the HSS club and distinguished colleague Mariana Petir. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Director, Representatives and Representatives. Protecting the environment and nature is a complex and broad area that includes issues of mutual impact on the common environment that we share with other species. As a species through the development of its civilization influences its environment, it changes its needs. Whether these needs are really always necessary or are the whim of our species is not always visible, but it is evident that with its influence a man exerts much pressure on all others with whom he shares his living space. In short, let us remind the effects on the environment of unsupervised public lighting. Let's go through an analysis of a natural eco-chain whose base is made of plants. Plants, especially trees, represent the entire eco system of many insects and animals. Changes in the life of trees that follow changes in seasons are known. It is also known that the amount of natural light as well as its quality during different seasons is also different. However, under the conditions of artificial lighting of excessive intensity as well as those of an unsupervised beam of light, the trees are unsuccessfully trying to adapt to the new coming season. They are confused by a different pattern of light and leaves on these trees are kept longer than in natural conditions. On the one hand, this phenomenon is fatal when cold winter comes because leaves are the most sensitive part of the tree. But also animals that live on trees also go through the changes of seasons, and when they expect the tree to lose its leaves, preparing for a different type of diet leaves do not fall, and this does not affect the animals’ entire life system. Crescents, for example. They move away because they are unable to find a reproductive partner, the daily insects stay active longer in the night, making them food and night animals, and the night bugs eventually move away because their period of night is when they are most active or completely cut off. In addition, insects gather around the light source, thus exhausting themselves to the point of becoming unable to feed or reproduce. Birds fed to insects, and that applies to bats, usually specialize in a few species of insects to feed on. In the atmosphere of excessive artificial light and insects change, so the birds disappear into the genes of the recorded food. Birds stop nesting in urban areas because their nests are exposed to predator attacks at night. In addition, birds lose orientation during night migration, and the consequences of their arrival are seen in new places where they were not typical until then. Birds vote all night announcing a dawn that won't arrive for hours. Such phenomena have been observed in large cities when people are puzzled by birds at night. The result is a disturbance of the bird’s rest period because the dusk occurs significantly earlier in nature than in areas of polluted light. In addition, the bird’s call at dawn is to inform other members of the same species that there is a time when food can be found because it will disappear in the country when it completely dawns. And the twilight of birds marks a special vote that, of course, in urban areas almost never follows. Nocturnal birds who no longer escape the suburban environments because they seem to have never fallen into the night, so they don't need to go hunting for night rodents and other nocturnal animals that feed on them. Hypothetically possible so the next scenario. In their escape from the light of the polluted area, birds run into another area and try to flee further. At one point, the tired realize that this escape is pointless since there is no more zone of total darkness. Birds then begin to feed on alternative foods because the urge to survive is stronger than fear or confusion stemming from the unnatural lighting of their habitats. Often alternative food is human waste and thus the future of nightbirds is sealed. In short, the daily mammals reduce the rest period as the nights are shortened or the hunting or feeding period is completely abolished. Many animals living on the ground are confused by artificial light during the night because it changes their natural sequence of changes day and night. Animals as humans also resent a new phenomenon that they do not understand and try to avoid. The consequence of this phenomenon is the avoidance of natural habitats, as well as the change in propagation terms. Often, premature oculars often occur, unfortunately condemned to conjecture. This phenomenon is not related only to urban areas, since the light transmitted to the atmosphere penetrates deep and uninhabited areas of nature. The incidence of milk production disorders during breast-feeding has been observed in wild mammals. In people according to studies, anxiety, continuous stress, insufficient rest, and similar occurrences are associated. On the other hand, there is a whole series of dangers arising from unprofessional and inadequately realised public debates. First of all, mention the dangers of traffic, when traffickers are blinded or unnecessarily tired under excessive glare. In the context of security, let's say that the strong reflectors placed on buildings with the intention of lighting access spaces around the building are mostly the main culprits that the burglar or defector of some other kind is almost not seen from a position away from the building since we are blinded by a beam of light. The law needs to be passed for all of these reasons but also for saving energy and for saving money, which is not a significant reason. We in the HSS welcome the decision to resolve this issue by law, because in 2007 we have just developed our proposal for a law on light pollution for which there was no interest at the time. The principle approach, concept and scope of the Law and what is important for this first reading of the Law is acceptable for discussion but requires a broad public debate in order to clarify and eliminate the irregularities that exist now. It is precisely because of the lack of a number of references that could be called for in the international experience that regulate this area is important that legal solutions are well discussed precisely because the implementation of this Law is financially demanding. To date, 147 cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have realised 165 public lighting projects with the help of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, total investment of the project is 140 million kuna, while the Co-financing Fund has secured 63 million kuna. So, the state is already helping those municipalities and cities that are not in the area of special state care with 40% of the amount, and those in the area of special state care from 60 to 80% of the amount. In Croatia, however, much of the existing public lighting systems are still based on outdated technological solutions. In a large part of the existing lamps a long time ago, while lighting bodies are mostly open, and the light bulb itself is subject to external influences. It is undeniable that existing lamps function but spend a lot and since they have no optical part of the light the technical effect is far below the level of today's lamps. Back in a few years, in Croatia almost all new reconstruction projects, existing or construction of new public lighting as light bodies choose effective lamps that meet the criteria of shade and protection against light pollution. The increased energy efficiency of public lighting reduces electricity consumption and thus reduces the emissions of pollutants from the Croatian electricity system. The application of energy-efficient public lighting removes light pollution that has a negative impact on biodiversity, human health and the night landscape. It is important to note that public lighting systems can be installed through public lighting systems, thus regulating power during the part of the night and thus light-flowing systems as a result of the extension of the life-saving council of the light source. The savings that can be achieved by reconstructing existing public lighting systems are up to 30% to replace only lighting bodies, and up to 50% by replacing lighting bodies and installing public lighting regulation systems. Many kindergartens, schools, or other facilities of social and municipal infrastructure can be made from these savings, which are very much needed in municipalities and cities. In defining the scope of this regulation, we consider it necessary to say that responsibility must be shared and extended to producers as stated in Article 1 of the Law itself but is later mentioned through the text of the law, and to persons with public authority, operators, authorised designers, competent services, contractors and others. Many are involved in planning, setting up and supervision of lighting, and each of them must bear its share of responsibility for respecting the provisions of this Act and not just the manufacturer. Because if the installer misfiring a single lamp, then it can't be the manufacturer's fault, it can be that installer. Following world trends in the production of energy efficient and ecological public lighting, the production of energy efficient and ecological lighting bodies has developed in Croatia, and we believe that this Law will bring good to our economies too, and we think that this is extremely important in this segment of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia. But we, too, at the HSS Club, believe that this law in some parts of it is too rigorous. We are concerned about the deadlines laid down in this Law that, in our opinion, are burdensome for municipalities and cities. We're betting that there's no need to change those light bulbs or lighting bodies that have recently been installed, but that should be changed when things come in nature time to replace them. It also obliges municipalities and cities to bring in maps of lighting but it is not clear who will pay for it, and who will do it, so it is a space according to our opinion for various gifted technicians who hunt in the blur and have no qualifications for such a job. It is necessary to list in the Law only exceptions where the Law does not apply, not where all the Law applies, because we are walking into a trap here, leaving something important behind, and we have seen it in this bill. We consider this Law to be termologically aligned with the Croatian language, because we know the word lighting and not revenge, and accordingly we should talk about lighting and not lighting. It is also necessary to discuss the professional definitions or concepts given in this Bill proposal because we consider it necessary to develop them from a professional point of view. It is our view that, in the light of the specificity of the Law other than the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Culture which is responsible for nature protection should also be included in the design of certain regulations. Recognizing our wealth that we protect through various forms and regimes of nature protection by putting this legislative proposal in the procedure, we confirm Croatia's commitment to respecting high standards of environmental and nature protection, but also energy efficiency in this part of the world that we often boast is the most beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67142	Thank you. A correction alleged by Mr Zdenko Franicč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67143	The alleged respected counterpart Petir that the Energy Efficiency Fund has funded 160 projects in 147 municipalities and cities. In 147 municipalities and towns owned by HDZ and HSS, this is an exact quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67144	I mean, where's your source of data, but I can tell you that's not so, because if I have to list the municipalities of my county where neither HDZ nor HSS in power, but they exchanged the lighting and installed the asparagus light bulbs thanks to the help of the fund. But my colleague Petyr raised a plate of injuries to the Businessman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Franic has injured Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure. In fact, I must really say that I was disappointed by what you said to my colleague Franic, because I appreciate him as a scientist and one real person, and I would expect you to politicize the last one by the cracks that some other classmates from the bench whisper to you. Therefore, it is completely incorrect and declassified to say that the Environmental Protection Fund only gave money to units of local self-government where the HDZ and HSS were in power because I personally know that they were guided by the criteria of good projects, that many of the mayors and mayors of your party were very commendable to the fund and were satisfied with the work of the fund especially in this segment of environmental public lighting. The project continues and this year where we have had opportunities to see that many cities and municipalities where the SDP or HDSSB is in power hear from my colleague Grubisic and you will get some money, so all the good projects will pass. So I think it's really ugly that you talk like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67146	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and distinguished counterpart Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So the Environmental Protection Act and the Economic Recovery Programme established the obligation, as well as the need for the adoption of the Law on protection against light pollution. The issue is the legal arrangement of light pollution in our environment and it has been resolved in some projects Italy and the regulation in Slovenia and, of course, some of the experiences in these proposals have been used in this law. However, indeed our people have done this law on their own, and this law has been proposed today, the government has proposed to the Parliament for adoption. In Europe today, the actually harmonised standards and standards on the implementation of external public lighting apply. We in the Republic of Croatia apply lighting standards that prescribe minimum amounts of light in certain cases. As you know, respected MPs and MPs, we temporarily closed Chapter 27 of the Environment to which we should all be very proud, because it is one of the most difficult chapters to join the EU. And despite the fact that the Law on protection against light pollution was not a condition for admission to Europe and for the harmonisation of all laws, we propose that this law be adopted and provided for by this law by energy efficiency and protection of people, flora and fauna. The aim of this bill is to establish new standards on how to illuminate public areas of use of public lighting, lighting of different objects, whether they are productive, serviceable, residential, and building facilities, and in particular saving energy and reducing harmful environmental impacts and people's health and life. Therefore, the procedures and limits prescribed in the proposal for this law determine our behaviour in the environment from building hiking trails, bike trails, various roads, airports, railway stations, to lighting up certain objects such as some objects of cultural monuments, whether sports facilities and the like. Particular attention is paid to unnecessary, useless and harmful light emissions into space, taking care of health, biological, economic, security, cultural and other standards and prescribed standards. The proposal for a law gives obligations to lighting operators, equipment manufacturers, and units of local and regional self-government or their concessionaries in which and during which time they need to adapt to the regulations. The bill also determines the responsibility of the lighting operator that is obliged to bear all the costs of preventive measures and measures to eliminate harmful environmental impacts, and manufacturers must only produce the equipment that can be recovered and that is also the chance for our manufacturers today who already have and who are already producing certain lighting bodies to use all their knowledge and experience to start with greater production as soon as possible and thus enable actual competition and our domestic companies, because it is still our greatest interest to employ our companies. All units of local self-government are obliged to draw up action plans in particular in harmonising public lighting with the provisions of this proposal and agree with concessionaries entrusted with public lighting maintenance, the application of lighting bodies that have the same effect with less energy consumption. It has already been said that 147 units of local self-government have gone into this and it is not exactly what we heard earlier, because you can ask your parliamentary representative about Koprivnica or about Čakovec, for example. So, according to others, I'm not referring to them right now, so there's literally no connection to party belongings. But it is good that the fund is involved and it is good that it will continue to be included and that these funds will be spent really for what everyone needs. I'm sure it'll still go on. In addition to mandatory application of the rules to allow light pollution, the bill also allowed for higher standards and for setting specific conditions for different individual facilities, depending on the possibilities of units of local and regional self-government. This proposal for a law on protection against light pollution is in line with the Law on spatial planning and construction, as well as with the Environmental Protection Act, in particular in the procedures to determine the acceptability of environmental procedures, in which particular attention will be paid to the fulfilment of specific conditions relating to the implementation of measures to protect against light pollution. It is good that this bill is adopted in two readings because it will be more debateable, more people will be able to participate, and of course it is possible to pass such a law only with a lot of effort, knowledge, use of all experts, but also to provide substantial financial resources. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community club proposes that the five-year deadline for the adjustment of the law of 6.5, a colleague of Ruzhinski, spoke of it, from 1.7. and a year, etc.,... refers to the construction of new buildings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, where construction starts, it should start immediately, and the existing facilities should not be set a fixed time limit, but the obligation to apply the law to the reconstruction of each individual facility or to any public lighting. That means, for example. that, when building a new street, public lighting should be built and designed according to the regulations and deadlines laid down in this law, the law proposal, and that the deadline for the reconstruction of existing facilities should not be determined in this bill, but according to the possibilities of each unit of local and regional self-government, which would be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Democratic Community club will also support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67148	Thank you very much to my colleague Marina. It's next up to the HNS Club, HSU and the distinguished colleague of Danica Hursa. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues. According to the proposal and adoption of this law, we are being introduced in the HNS, HSU, to an area that is vital to humans, animals, plants. More recently, and today, unfortunately, we have seen in this assembly that the concept of light pollution is causing misunderstandings, and sometimes a mockery, and it should not be that way, because we are already facing all the difficult consequences of this type of pollution knowing that it is a global problem that needs to be solved in a long and thorny way, above all in an educational way. I repeat, in an educational and then in a practical sense. To repeat the definition of what would be light pollution is therefore any unnecessary, useless emission of light to a space outside the zone that needs to be illuminated, which is due to the use of non-organic lighting bodies, mostly even wrongly placed. The human community today operates 24 hours a day so night lighting is an all-present category in the activities of our society that unfortunately has its unwanted dimensions. We've heard about this before today, but let me say a few sentences of what the consequences of light pollution are. Light pollution was first diagnosed in astronomy. Direct or indirect light has a negative impact on the observer, visibility of the observation object and observation instruments. In Croatia there are almost no suitable places for astronomical observations, except for some islands and uninhabited areas of Like and Gorski Kotar. The starry sky from horizon to zenith exists at only a few locations in Europe. The dark night sky, therefore, without light pollution, allows a man with his naked eye to see some 10,000 bright dots such as planets, asteroids, stars. Today, 95% of the world's population with a naked eye can only register 200 people. A few words about the biological consequences, I'm saying, there's already been a conversation. It's very important to me, so I'll mention it. A smooth and clear change of day and night is a fundamental feature of the entire ecosystem as well as the life cycle of the plant, animal and human race. Light pollution is eroding the night, and this fundamental backbone of the ecosystem is becoming increasingly endangered. I have already mentioned that today more than 95% of Europeans live in areas where the natural background of the night sky is lit up four or more times. Because of excessive and inadequate lighting of plants and animals, they can no longer determine when the right time is for feeding, resting, reproduction. Such a condition leads to a disaster that we are witnessing today because of the extinction of both plant and animal species. My colleagues and colleagues, most of us lived in the sunsets and nights with beautiful gleaming fireflies. Where are they today, can we show our children and grandchildren an animal who was the companion of our youth? We can't because they've been used incorrectly by the light. New research unequivocally proves that life and work in areas exposed to increased light pollution negatively affects human productivity and health. There has been evidence of a negative effect of light pollution on an increased number of cardiovascular and carcinogenic diseases, as well as particularly mental illnesses. The economic consequences of the same few sentences. Due to non-organic lighting harmfully, it is needlessly lost around 30 to 40 percent of the electricity intended for night artificial lighting. It's really a problem that, of course, requires an urgent solution. Croatia's entry into the European Union will force us to comply with rigorous standards on light pollution. So who today buys and sets up an unorganic lighting body proves irresponsible behavior and business. This law should satisfy the irresponsible behavior of the responsible. Cultural consequences are also mentioned. That's where I'll just mention that actually the culture of the night is gone. It is not necessary to say that very soon our beautiful songs that spoke of the sky-stained stars will be just our dear memories. Where's the solution? Ecologically, the lighting bodies have superiorly completed their light-technical task. They meet the civilization need for night lighting without dangerous flashing and harmful light emissions towards the horizon, i.e. towards the sky. And in the end, I will say that the HNS Club, HSU, will support the first reading of this law among other things and in order to improve the failures of the procedure by the second reading, above all in the lack of public debate in which local self-government units as well as anyone else interested in this issue must be involved. Today, the Secretary of State told us that 24 sets of objections had arrived at the Committee on Environmental Protection. We expect in the next period that the Proposer will appreciate all the good and useful remarks. The HNS club, the HSU particularly underlines that deadlines are unacceptable. For example, it has already been mentioned for five years to change inadequate lighting in local self-government units more than too short and inexplicable simply because units of local self-government will not have financial means for law enforcement, and penalties as we can see from the bill are very large, high and rigorous. We suggested a way to fix it. This law must certainly comply with European norms and, more importantly, with no greater adverse consequences than the overall benefit that we will receive from this law. And finally let me personally tell those who say that Croatia is not yet bright enough and that we are panicking and that we do not really need this law. They're texted by a song by the great Antun Branko Simic, signifyingly called Warning, and the first verse says, "Man, be careful not to go under the stars." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67150	Thank you. It is up to the SDP and fellow representatives Zdenko Franić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67151	Honored Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. 99% of the population of North America can no longer see the Milky Way in the night sky, or the galaxy in which our solar system is located, and so is our planet. In Europe, there is a more favourable situation, but still about 90% of people who have never seen the Milky Way. It is paradoxical that of all the contaminants we face, light pollution can be easily prevented. After all, concern for the quality of the night sky is also in line with the General Declaration on the Rights of Future Generations issued by UNESCO and which says: Future generations have the right to an unbroken nature, a clean environment including the right to a clean sky. It is interesting, however, that the assessment of the state of this law primarily mentions the programme of economic recovery of the Government of the Republic of Croatia before health protection, which is actually saddened for the country from which academic Andrija Stampar, author of the public health doctrine globally accepted throughout the world and which is actually a spiritual movence of the World Health Organization. Not to mention the fact that in this morning's announcement this debate, the media primarily apostrophyd savings that could be achieved by this law, human health and flora and fauna health without mentioning at all. In this law, however, this economic and economic aspect has been somewhat irresponsiblely apostrophealed because Article 1 mentions the very responsibility of the producer in relation to lighting while the responsibility should also be borne by authorised designers, supervisors, contractors, or short-term public authorities. We've heard about the impact on people about light and it's moving from impact to reducing the desired concentration of melatonin in an organism that interferes with the work of the biological clock, and normal melatonin secretion is increased at night, reduced by day, i.e. light reduces its secretion and therefore we have a number of negative consequences such as increased incidence of malignant tumours, then sleep problems, development of various other diseases, then increased blood pressure, flashing and trembling may lead to insomnia, headaches, anxiety, and other disorders, in children poor sleep habits, shortsightedness etc. As far as the animal world is concerned, and we've heard a lot, and even as the plant world is concerned, there's been an extinction of certain kinds of plants, plants because light pollution leads to imbalances in the countering of phytoplankton and zoplankton. Unfortunately, when the bill was drawn up, the profession was not normally consulted, and I would read Professor Dr. Bosniana, who worked with a larger group of multidisciplinary experts for over a year on this issue, also attended the meeting were representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but none of the group's only objections to the drafting of this bill were adopted, although, the deadline for sending was 20 January and the remarks were sent on time. It has therefore been announced that the bill goes to a parliamentary vote in the form originally published on the Internet, without respecting and one of our only objections. What is incomprehensible is that neither our remarks on correct grammar, the choice of technical terminology and the inadmissible formulations of articles are respected. For example, physicists are well - known for not using the term lighting, but for lighting. Prof. The Bosnian continues, I must admit it is a splash to a top team of experts who, apart from physicists, astronomers, technicians, engineers, doctors, biologists, etc., so it's a splash to a top team of experts who know exactly what they're talking about. However, it is only a continuation of the boast that the government applies even to technical laws. Let us remember, for example, the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, in which definitions in the list even change the physical definition of nuclear fission, and yet the representatives of the Government did not want to adopt any objections. Or, for example, from your ministry of a regulation relating to the control of floating particles, so the regulation entered instead of 2.5 and 10 micrometers 2.5 and 10 meters. So it's about asteroids falling from the sky, and yet it's not fixed. Some off-the-book information is that there has been a conversion and a release of the Greek sign of micro, I guess from one version of Word to another, but it's not the general public and the people who enforce the laws are guilty because the government is a fan, or a Linux hater, and that using an open-ended error would be unimaginable. Unfortunately, the profession doesn't consult, so here we have a series of situations where they're completely surreal, like. in the article, paragraph 14, where the lamp is defined as a shaded lamp, and in fact it is legally conditioned that the lamps are shaded in a way that the light is sent up instead of down. So the lamp of the sea, says this, is the shaded lamp of one that guarantees the optical limiters or its own structure the minimal flashing and dispersion of light in the environment, and emits a minimal beam of light from the plane horizontally down. So it's minimally broadcast down. So what's that lamp gonna do besides stuffing up the bills we're all paying to HEP? Even such remarks from the profession the government did not want to adopt. As I said, here is my colleague Dropulić, who said that projectors must also lead and bear the responsibility for designing and works related to environmental lighting, but there is no such thing in this bill. Then, there are also redefined some physical sizes, all physicists very well known, because the intensity of the light that is introduced in this law is not light current. The intensity is a square of amplitude, but light while something is completely different. And it's not really clear to me why, not only in the Ministry of Environmental Protection, but also in the Ministry of Health and in other ministries, the government is reluctant to seek partnership with the profession, with professional societies. Also, it is not clear why, for example, it is limited only to visible light and infrared light, while that part of ultraviolet is left out. And that is when the International Commission for radiation protection itself adopted a new doctrine that the environment must also be protected, not just by people. And in the end, we accepted that because we closed Chapter 15. - Energy, in this broader context, and this part goes into the law. Dear Mr. Secretary of State include the profession in drawing up the final proposal of this law, so if you do not appreciate the service of the profession, do so even if Croatia remains one of the few countries on the globe in which we will still be able to experience beautiful sunsets. Like the one in Zadar that is considered the most beautiful in the world and allow and loved ones to still be able to say in Croatia I will take the stars out of the sky. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67152	Thank you very much. It's the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, and, uh, excuse me, we had one application to correct an incorrect allegation. Comrade twilight, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now he's making me a little tense, and I was just about to ask an esteemed colleague what he's doing today? So what makes him think the government doesn't ask the profession and the profession isn't invited to discuss this subject. Of course the waist was called. There were 29 packages, not like this paper, a fellow package of proposals, and this is the first reading... Don't say none of them are adopted and don't mean they won't be. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So today, of those 147 statements that you wanted to plant, I really don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67154	All right, physicists. Make it right as it has to be. And it's my colleague Grubisic's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. Here, it started with the stars and the clear sky with night and light and so on. In fact, this legislative proposal that has just taken place, therefore, to discuss energy efficiency and environmental impacts, which my colleague, Marijana Petir, spoke of in a very nice and solid way, and which I fully support in that part. It's really something that's well said. Like the end of a colleague who spoke before me, the end of his exposure. Therefore, when it comes to public lighting and when it comes to production and possible impact on the promotion of the production of lighting bodies that are according to the regulations laid down in this legislative proposal, then the domestic industry is also mentioned. A domestic industry that will have a chance in view of the resources allocated to these purposes in connection with this law, where local (regional) self-government is also supported by 40% or 60% to 80% of the area of special state care, which is good. So it's about the chances of a domestic lighting industry producer. The domestic anti-urban missile industry also exists in the Republic of Croatia and is located in Slavonski Brod – Toolnica Đuro Đaković. Unfortunately, this production, which could be said to be unique in the Republic of Croatia due to imports, is also in a position to be almost bankrupt. Isn't that how I wouldn't like it to happen, if it were with the domestic production of lighting bodies? Sometimes going to hell is divided say good intentions, but where luck is that the goal of this, one of the objectives of this legislative proposal, is also to encourage exactly the domestic production of lighting bodies. Who decides? They decide local administrations that discuss competitions, not government bodies. Now, how these competitions will go and who gets elected is hard to decide. I would not accept that sharp and strict assessment that exclusively HDZ and HSS municipalities and cities have received lighting or that the state has helped them in public lighting projects, because so bad I guess no one is that this is how municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia would be classified, projects are more important, but when we talk about projects and they should be paid. In Brod-Posavina County and throughout Slavonia there are municipalities that cannot pay for the project, i.e. project or preparatory documentation. And there's also a problem. I know that they can address the Fund for Assistance financially to produce preparatory documentation, but as much as the fund is able to help so many poor municipalities in Slavonia, that's the second question. And when these coins are distributed how much the municipality will get and with this money can produce project documentation, the preparatory documentation for public lighting is very questionable. And while we are here discussing light pollution and the concepts of Article 2 that are a little bit, I won't say funny, but where it explains what the minister is in paragraph 34. So what's the Ministry? What's the night? Look, you've got here says what night is, well then what is the manufacturer, I guess light, lighting equipment or what is lighting or what is the public in Article 35. So as I read in Article 2 of this definition as to what I have cited these terms, so far the citizens of Slavon ship are still being poisoned and poisoned with sulfur water, sulfur dioxide, gasoline money, and who knows what else in view of the nature and production or type of products that come out of the refinery in the Bosnian ship, and here has been the rise in the last weeks of the great dust that has been slowly coming down and descending. I warn again that despite the fact that there is a law here on protection against light pollution that this is a first-class environmental problem in the Republic of Croatia and this is the strongest ecological problem in the Republic of Croatia. This law itself, which clearly prescribes almost, I would say more rigorously than is foreseen in Europe, even in the world. The programme of anti-light pollution measures is clear that it is also acceptable for the HDSSB Club, although it is said by Mrs Dropulic that the issue of measures in Chapter 27 is already closed and that in fact this matter exceeds our proposals goes beyond the standards that are acceptable and that are implemented and applied in the European Union, so here we are, and more advanced to say in some ways, than they are. Therefore, the HDSSB Club will have no objection to such a legislative proposal and will be in favour of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67156	Thank you, fellow Grubisic. I'd like to inform you colleagues and colleagues that the time for the individual hearing has passed. We have a report, and my colleague Mirela Holly checked in first. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67157	Thank you, Vice President. I think it is good that Croatia is one of the few countries that has decided that the problem of light pollution is to be regulated and regulated by the Law, however, this positive intensity must not be more important than the goal we want to achieve and the benefits that we will derive from the application of the Law. It is essential that we do not create greater damage to the benefit of a regulation and we must not agree to the fact that we also make decorations of the Law, laws that we will not actually apply, and this law could easily be translated into it. That's why when I vote on this bill in my first reading, I will be abstentioned. It is not good that this bill has entered the Parliament without respecting this legal procedure on the obligation to conduct a public debate, of 30 days, that is an obligation not only stemming from the environmental law, but also from an obligation arising from a convention that we have ratified in this Assembly, which is the Archus Convention. It is also not good for the Government and the Ministry to autistically draft draft laws, and this bill is extremely professional and technical. In this case, the Ministry has roughly ignored top experts and experts who were extremely interested in participating in the process of drafting this Act. Moreover, the bill we are discussing today came to the Assembly on the initiative of a group of experts and experts who have quite enthusiastically advocated the adoption of such a law. I do not understand why the Ministry decided to ignore the ideas of this group, or group mentioned by counterpart Zdenko Franic. And this group developed certain ideas and suggestions that were mostly very well-designed and certainly had the opportunity to discuss this bill, we would not talk today about these technical failures that almost all the predecessors spoke of. Unfortunately, the Ministry has decided on a different version, i.e. a kind of transcript of the Slovenian regulation covering this area, which according to the information we received from experts and experts is also quite inconclusive in Slovenia itself. I believe that the comments and comments of this group of experts and experts are fully justified, and these observations are in fact consistent with the observations we have received from the largest and most active environmental protection association, the Green Action, which shows that this proposal is definitive in terms of the rule of technical vocabulary, but in terms of technical misunderstandings of many elements important for the concrete implementation of the Law. I am particularly impressed by the focus of the applicant on the manufacturer as the most responsible entity in terms of respecting the standards of environmental protection in the implementation of the Law, i.e. the comprehensive ignoring of the responsibility of authorised designers, supervisory authorities, performers, and persons with public authority. Why would they be freed from criminal responsibility? I think it is necessary to regulate the law that we will have the opportunity to read in a second reading. The second package of remarks refers to a kind of misunderstanding of light pollution damage for the entire natural world, both plants and animals and landscapes but also to the astronomical profession and the needs of astronomical profession. Finally, I would like to say that the implementation of this Law will cost very much, this was also the case during today's debate and that it will be financed by public funds, i.e. the issuance of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which will certainly lead to an increase in the burden, because units of local and regional self-government will not be able to finance it in a different way. In this regard, I believe it is a little hypocritical even to promote this law as one of the measures of economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, because in the long term, it is the fact that environmental benefits and economic benefits from the application of such a solution and will be good, in fact it will be useful because the expenditure for lighting itself will be less. However, it should also be stressed that initial investments to honour this law will be a huge and definitive blow to public finances. In addition, the great lack of this bill is a lack of which this bill cannot be considered a measure of economic recovery, because the legislator did not make an effort to install in this document provisions that would be the driver of one segment of economic development and Croatia's recovery. All right, we will change all public lighting in Croatia for a more environmentally friendly energy-efficient and financially more energy-efficient lighting, but let's also use this for a new cycle of technological development in Croatia and the launch of new production of quality lighting bodies and maintenance and improvement of existing production. Otherwise, I fear that the greatest benefit from this law will be the non-Croatian economies, but the economies of other most European countries that are significantly more competitive in terms of the production of such lighting bodies. It is in this segment that the most different approach to environmental protection issues between the ruling parties and the SDP is seen. For us, respected colleagues and colleagues, environmental protection is an opportunity for a better, new, better quality development of Croatia, for the development of a more economically successful, technologically advanced, socially advanced, socially fair and ecologically cleaner Croatia, while environmental protection has also been the rest of the cost to the state, and we see from the latest events the opportunity for the unscrupulous extraction of money and the illegal wealth of companies of friends of certain high-level ruling officials and officials. And don't say it's impossible to do it because of EU free trade rules and things like that because anything can be done whenever it wants to, but something good needs to be done first for the population, the state and society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67158	Here's a replica, distinguished colleague Bozo Bishop. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We've heard the law won't apply. I would like to say, this is a modern European document, Croatia settles it by law, some other countries by other regulations, and what is important for this document is reading for everyone. Because we're all bonded to protect the environment, not for ourselves, but for generations that come behind us. It also clearly defines the care of people and human health but, of course, the animal world, because it will certainly prevent such outbursts as we saw in the U.S. when it came to over one city the whole death of birds. Of course, he also has a desire to have profound economic effects, which is very important. But there was one question asked, where is the solution? A solution to a respected colleague and colleagues in us, in the first place, and only then, of course, in laws like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67160	A reply to the replica of my colleague Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67161	Dear colleague Biskupić, you were not at yesterday's session of the Environment Protection Committee where your colleague Marina Matulović Dropulić was talking about the risks that this law might not be applied in a way. ... Financial well-being, loud and clear. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But still in a certain part, and given that Commissioner Marina Matulović Dropulić was the Minister for Environmental Protection who I suppose had a lot of influence on the content of this law, I believe her opinion is quite relevant in this regard. So I think that in this sense my warning does not conflict with some of the things that Marina Matulović Dropulić said and other representatives at yesterday's committee meeting, which come from the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67162	Thank you very much. ... As we continue on this law with some sparks and a lot of fireflies and stars, we reach the break, and we will continue at 15.00 hours. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A colleague of the twilight is first in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67163	We'll continue our afternoon work. An individual debate, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is certainly a law in front of us that is not a decoration like the opposition, the privilege of this opposition is indecisiveness and irresponsibility because they do not know otherwise, so this Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Law on Light Contaminants tried to degrade, but for this Government and for Croatia this bill is not politics because this government has no time to deal with such things. And this very proposal for a law on protection against light pollution shows the government's attitude towards nature's health, i.e. human, flora and fauna. My colleagues and colleagues earlier, in previous discussions, stressed why the amendments to this Law had to be made, and I'm just going to look around a little bit, and maybe it's good to sensitize both colleagues and colleagues in the Assembly, but those people who listen may be listening to this transmission. The birds do not nest in the illuminated spaces, the settlements lose orientation without the starry sky, bright light blinds them and many collide with various buildings. More birds get killed every year because of light pollution than other environmental disasters. Hormone disorders make the nest too soon or in the fall. Some birds lack nights, so we have explosions of sparrows, knots, crows and seagulls, which is a particularly big problem in urban areas or cities. The young sea turtles have to be found on the way to the moon from the surface of the sea. If there is a public lighting nearby, they move towards it and end most often under wheels or as prey of predators. So the reproductive cycle of some fish is connected to the coast and the influence of the moon, so the artificial moonlight that we create by lighting the shallows reduces the fish's number of nests, and fishermen are deprived of the possibility of survival. Problems can also be seen in insects, so many suffer near the lighting bodies leading to the emptying of neighbouring eco systems. Badly solved lighting bothers and traffic, so here's an example that the Transport Safety Act has for 15 years been standing that the lighting along the roads must be cut off. The reality is a completely different light spreads unnecessarily into the sky, part of the light blinds drivers directly and flashes off wet roads indirectly. The sudden transition from light to lighted area results in a temporary loss of vision, which can lead to an accident very often and one example unfortunately is that of the Istrian Ipsion. Research also shows that artificial lighting affects people too, sleep disturbances, life rhythms, and various other diseases associated with this. The only place we can see the stars is only in the parts of the Gorski Kotar, Petrova or Zrinska mountains and Velebit. Now I'm going to skip this part really about the milky path, comets, stars and galaxies, and I want to say that in 2011, we're going in with chapter 27 closed. The environment, but with the proposal for a law on protection against light pollution by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction and as a draft proposed it to the Government, the government accepted it and sent it to this Assembly procedure. It has been decided that the Law will go into two readings to give sufficient time for a quality public debate. The law is adopted under the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act and constitutes the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme in part of the medium-term measures. Light pollution represents a change in the level and natural light in night conditions caused by the introduction of light produced by human action. Light pollution results from the expansion of urban areas of the country under public lighting, lighting of roads, railways, ports, sea and air, cultural and sports facilities. Light pollution disappears the night sky, night darkness is lost. This fact is not only a problem for scientists, astronomers, but for all living things. And she, of course, disrupts life’s rhythm, leading to many consequences. Light pollution as a legal concept was introduced into the Croatian legislation for the first time in 2007, the law is the legal basis for the practical mandatory implementation of a set of standards contained in already existing Croatian standards related to the area of the use of electricity and related to lighting and lighting. The law is also an important legal framework for establishing new standards on how public lighting and lighting, the use of public lighting, and the lighting of different facilities, production, service, housing and construction facilities. The protection against light pollution shall include measures to protect against unnecessary, useless or harmful emissions of light in space, in the zone and outside the zone to be illuminated, and measures to protect the night sky from excessive lighting. Protection against light pollution is determined on the basis of health, biological, economic, cultural, legal, security astronomical and other standards. The aim of this law is not to keep Croatia in the dark at night but to encourage and promote the use of more quality lighting, which will also be cheaper. Public lighting should be directed towards the land where it is needed and not to the sky where no one is using it. Good lighting is not necessarily too high and must be targeted as soon as energy is saved and this is a contribution to both the environment and the finances. The problem of light pollution is possible without much effort and knowledge, it will take both time and financial resources, but ultimately it will be worth it. Already 147 Croatian cities and municipalities have invested considerable financial resources in environmental lighting. The government of the Republic of Croatia co-financed these projects with around 40 million kuna and the 147 Croatian cities are not cities, as counterpart Franic said, only cities ruled by one party but those with good projects. According to HEP data in Croatia, about 270 thousand kilowatt hours are spent annually for public lighting, for which local self-government units pay about 116 million kuna. When this Law is implemented and all those measures that the Law provides for savings would then be over 50%, then only the units of local self-government would receive savings of around 60 million a year, which means that funds will be invested and returned. Since the implementation of this law requires considerable financial resources for both public lighting operators and local self-government units, a period of 7 years is foreseen and of course we support Ms. Marine Matulović-Dropulic's presentation in her section in front of the HDZ club when she spoke of it. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction has drafted this law and should enter into force on 1 July 2011. It was left for a year to the ministry for the adoption of sublegal implementing acts. The government and the ministry also called on scientists and experts on lighting and light-body manufacturers, then associations dealing with environmental protection and all citizens to join the project to introduce environmental lighting and, of course, to participate in the debate. I will also support this law because I believe that lighting should only light our paths and streets, and not turn the night into a light sea for people, animals and the environment. This law is also in line with the government's economic recovery measures. I'm going to support him because he's and he's stressed the energy efficiency that is imperative, and I'm going to support this law because I don't want my grandchildren under the idea of a milky way to think of a chocolate milky way. And here it is, I will certainly support it because this government is imperative and protection and health of nature, and here as I have said is human health, flora and fauna health, and this government is certainly interested in all of this, and there is no time to deal with politics because it is a privilege of opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67165	Thank you. Dear Representative Boris Matkovic is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Now, since I may have been more exhaustive yesterday on the board today, I'm going to be shorter and I'm only going to stick to this part that refers to the units of local self-government as a signifying factor in solving therefore issues relating to public lighting. About the plant, animal world and everything the predecessors said, I'll skip. But what should actually be pointed out when it comes to units of local self-government is that they are essentially the largest part and they are involved in this part and they are also covered by this law in terms of the restoration of public lighting and all other objects where public lighting is used as such. They are therefore directly involved primarily in the fact that every day, in fact, there is a greater share in the city’s public lighting budgets. It is clear that this problem should try to rise. It has already begun to grow up with data that 147 cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have raised the issue of reconstruction, with the help of certainly the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or a concrete amount of 40 million kuna, which was distributed according to the projects. I know that I have it in particular in my town of Vrgorec because I also participate in it as the head of local self-government, wherever the streets were in some way restored or anything else in the infrastructure restored and lighting. What exactly is being restored, what is the meaning of this renewal? Well, it's primarily to set up lighting places that will direct their light to the earth. So the balls of the old guy who sprayed it in all directions aren't good, and they're the ones that actually create all this confusion and damage that they are. Of course that's not the only reason. The savings are first. Yesterday I heard a frantic data, I believe it's true, which is that just replacing all the balls so as lighting bodies in the city of Zagreb would bring savings which would compensate for the electricity of all the city's kindergartens. Let's say the information that can be taught to all of us. What I want to point out in the end is that we from the Croatian Democratic Community have clearly taken the view that it is not good on the other hand to say that we are not, and that is to invite all experts, scientists and those most invited to participate in this debate and who know the very good problem of public lighting, then the manufacturers of lighting bodies and eco associations. That is why there are two readings, to find the solution, or most acceptable proposal for all of us, in these two readings. And finally, to all those who are afraid of the lead with counterpart Caine and colleague Holly, I don't really know what they're afraid of. They're obviously afraid of something that's necessary, something that's more significant, so I'd say they're sending a message saying there's nothing to do. And I'd just ask them a question if you're afraid to propose and if you're afraid to decide why you're so harshly attacking the government in all respects and what you're really hoping for, what kind of message you're sending to the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67167	Thank you. It's our guest, Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67168	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. There's a new law in front of us that I think is good to pass, but it shouldn't be passed by post-poo, in a hurry and, of course, be at the end of it and missing. First of all, I'd like to say one of the failures that happened right at the beginning, which is a violation of the deadlines. In particular, the Environmental Protection Act prescribes a minimum period of 30 days for public participation in the process of making laws and implementing rules that could have a significant impact on the environment. Of course, the law we're talking about today is about protecting against light pollution, a regulation that will certainly have an impact on the environment. I can also quote Article 141. The environmental law, which reads: "the public authorities are obliged to ensure timely and effective participation of the public in the process of making laws and implementing rules, as well as other general applicable and legally binding rules under their jurisdiction which could have a significant impact on the environment, including the process of making their changes and additions". The minimum time limits may also be set for the public to participate within the meaning of Article 141(1) of this Act within the meaning of Article 142(1) of this Act shall be 30 days. So the government adopted this law at 102th session on 7 January 2011, and referred it to the parliamentary procedure without respecting a 30-day deadline for public debate. I think this is inappropriate, inadmissible behavior because we know that public debate is important when all those who know the matter to be spoken of make their own concrete proposals. It is not good to marginalize top experts in this way. I am sorry that here is the proposal that neither one nor the most well-intentioned proposal sent by top experts from various areas and who have worked on this bill for a year. In this case, it was not necessary to wait for a second reading to be accepted, but rather to consider this before the first reading. In other words, if there is a well-intentioned proposal on the one hand, it would be correct for the Government, on the other hand, to show good will for cooperation and that some proposals would be accepted. Here's a brief look at some of the articles of this law, I'm going to make some remarks. The word lighting is mentioned in Article 1. We know that this word is not in the spirit of the Croatian dictionary, but it is right to use the word lighting. So here's my appeal for that to change. I believe that this article needs to be amended in a way that, besides the manufacturer, responsibility should also be borne by authorised designers, supervisors, contractors and others, i.e. In short, entities carrying out lighting of space should be defined. Article 19 speaks of the concept of security lighting. Here this notion should be defined differently and that security lighting is the one with its own power sources and the corresponding autonomy of work without distribution power, and is used to prevent people's panic from shutting down the basic light by lighting the shortest exits from the room. This definition is technically more acceptable than the one you listed in the draft law. Article 21 is then defined as being light pollution. Light pollution is considered to be an unsuitable emission of the visible part of the electromagnetic spectrum, but also parts that correspond to the ultraviolet and infrared parts of the spectrum. I think this definition is better than the one you listed in the proposal. I consider it because, apart from a part of the spectrum visible to man, it is known that it extends a range that includes infrared and ultraviolet light many living beings are intensely feeling. In many situations, their orientation is based on the reflection of ultraviolet light from some surface. Infrared radiation already influences the biosphere by its basic activity, and I therefore consider this definition more appropriate and correct than the one you listed in the draft of this law. Article 26 of this Act defines which conditions must be met by a building involving lighting. With the emergence of the latest sources of light, power is no longer decisive as it is in the proposal, but it is a production light flow. It is necessary to turn the lamps on next to the light source because one without another does not go. In this case, it is also necessary to highlight the regulation through which all necessary technical parameters of the light source will be defined. Here are just some of the remarks I made. As we could hear today in the debate, several hundred pages of objections arrived. I sincerely hope that all those top experts who worked for a year on the bill's proposal and gave these proposals to the government's representatives, did not do so to the ministry in vain and that most of them would accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67169	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. The closing words of the esteemed Nikola Ružinski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank all the debaters, all the MPs who have supported this law and who have made useful remarks. I am pleased to conclude that all the club representatives in principle supported the adoption of this law and a large part of the MPs, except for certain exceptions, the distinguished representative Mirela Holly said she would not support it, and some made a lot of remarks. Perhaps one of the most significant remarks that I am not disdaining the others is what came from the HDZ club by Ms. Marine Matulović Dropulic. There was a proposal that was very often highlighted through the debate highlighted the fact that extremely large funds should be provided, that these funds would be burdened by a good part of the local self-government units if it comes to public lighting. But there are far more obligations here. But in any case, I think that this proposal is good and it will contribute to what it means that we will really be able to implement this law, that it is not a law that is just some kind of decoration, but that it is a law that will then be easier and enforce it, and that is the suggestion that the construction of new objects is done immediately by law, and that existing objects must adhere to this law. This would likely, not likely but certainly mitigate a quick burden on local self-government units, but also other participants, and ultimately lead to a good result. Already, the fact that new facilities, new roads, new playgrounds or all that is related to public lighting will be especially some kind of advert and what brightens the facades will bring very quickly to the right situation. Under this law, it will already contribute to reducing this pollution. I have to look back here at my colleague Zdenko Franjic's discussion, a respected representative who is unfortunately not here, but he said so many things that I have to say something about it. But other MPs, too. Here is an honourable representative right before this last one who spoke the same about disrespecting the profession, quoting Professor Bosanco who worked for over a year, that the public debate was too short and that as Mr Franjić said, the haughtiness of the government that thus passed the laws. I'm not going to discuss here whether a lapus calami like a micron or a meter when you write a micrometer means you don't know the waist. But what I would like to say is that if we are talking about haughtiness, I must point out the deep surprise of what Professor Bosanac did from the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, who sent his remarks to everyone, set up five associations, or association sent the same remarks. So that's the team led by Professor Bosnian. Then another Green Action. The esteemed representative Holly said the remarks match, that they were talking about the same thing. It's really about the same thing from word to word. So, this was copied, remarks from a group of Bosnians. Then there was also the Croatian astronomical society and the Croatian Society of lighting, so 5 of the same, the exact same proposals came in, and in the meantime Prof. Bosnian and communicated with us, and then he wrote, let's just say I can tell you from his 5, 6 emails of which were all sorts of proposals, where he said my vision of law-making is quite the opposite of what is happening now, the minister should choose the most serious remarks, invite to a meeting and co-ordinate, and then on parliamentary reading should then be representatives of these remarks in the Assembly which would... professionally individual articles on Parliament issues. [[You don't understand.]] So he's got one of his special visions, he's got special behavior, a special attitude towards cooperation, and that annual, one-year work I'm not going to bother you here, but I've got a proposal here that came from those groups. The proposal from that group was on the first draft, when we received no proposal from them, on our first draft there were several remarks, in which only far away you can see that it was a red line on one page, so there were no comments, we couldn't use it. But when we made the law completely, then the remarks came, and indeed, all you got, what you read were the comments of that team, and we're going to consider it in this current paper. So what my colleague Franic said include the profession, that we will include the profession. But not only this profession, not only this team, but the other 24 others, 29 of which have been made up of very significant, valuable and constructive remarks that we will put into this law and in this law when the second reading comes will certainly be with much less and technical and these other mistakes, and whether the term is this or that, whether it is lighting or lighting, we will talk about it with the profession, both the linguists and the profession, and we will take into account what is on this proposal that is given, it represents a quality proposal on which to make observations can be made. And now just, if you'll allow me, the esteemed MP Mirela Holly, this is not a law decoration and what we've done is that economic recovery here is also one of the basics, because we have to say, we need to understand, those of you who are dealing with environmental protection, and that the quality of the environment is certainly important for the quality of life and that it also certainly affects economic recovery. Let's not talk about energy efficiency without talking about production. We today, perhaps you won't agree with, or your discussions with the discussion of the distinguished representative Caine were a little... about whether or not to encourage production, but I can tell you that already today there are several companies in the Republic of Croatia that are already in this business. [[You don't understand.]] Here I tell you in Croatia has developed the production of energy efficiency, the environmental lighting bodies of the company TEP d.o.o. in Zagreb and the company Dekor from Zabok. Also many manufacturing companies in Croatia are increasingly introducing LED lighting into their production programs, from renowned companies with reference to numerous lighting projects such as the example DEKOR Zabok again, Filix Pazin, Intra Lighting Chazma, RS Metals Saint Sunday, Elektrotechnicals Križevci, etc. There are a number of companies involved, this law will probably encourage others, so they're not targeted, so it's not some hidden, hidden intention of a respected representative Cain, it's not a hidden intention to allow this law to reveal more asteroids, and it's probably going to contribute to that, but it's about these laws that can boost production. And allow me, Mr. Vice President, to refer to another remark, which may not be directly related to lighting, but it was said here today, that laws are being done at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and then rules that actually have this hidden intention and that lead to a variety of malversions. I have to say that this bidding with whether 600 or 700 million damages have occurred in the Environmental Protection Fund with packaging waste is the fact that the fact lies in that out of those 600 or how many millions you want, so none of the figures are accurate, but it appears in the daily press, that 150 million in this was spent on that historical waste, about 200 and something million, 200, 300 million circulations in the system, and what's circulating in the system is... The fund because the companies didn't want to for the first 3 months when they were supposed to, they were required to pay, and 263 million were unpaid bills that the companies didn't pay. [[You don't understand.]] So I would say this much, and once again I thank you for your constructive remarks, and we will include the profession and this law will be even better than the one that is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67171	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67172	Proposal for a law on protection against light pollution, first reading. I am giving the vote the conclusion: "The proposal for a law on protection against light pollution, all objections, proposals to the proposer to prepare a final bill." Let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. 70 votes for, 25 abstentions, reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67173	We move to the 3rd item of the agenda, which is - - Proposal for a Decision adopting the position of the Republic of Croatia on amendments and amendments to Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand, with a proposal for a conclusion by the Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government has proposed this decision on the basis of Article 3. The law implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and the Interim Agreement on trade and related matters between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. I see that the proposer's representative wishes to further explain the proposal. Dear Ivan Bubic, head of the ministry, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67174	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Honorable MPs and MPs. I would like to introduce you today to the Proposal for a Decision adopting the position of the Republic of Croatia on amendments to Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, of the other part, and with the proposal for a conclusion. The inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the system of diagonal cumulation of origin will be implemented by decision of the Stabilisation and Association Council. The interests of Croatian businessmen are protected through the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the system of diagonal cumulation of origin. This system is of exceptional importance for the textile, leather, footwear and metal industry, and for distribution warehouses located in the Republic of Croatia, which cover business throughout the region. The system of diagonal cumulation of origin allows the manufacturer to include in its product materials from other countries in the system and to export it as its own product under... the conditions in a third country included in the system. [[You don't understand.]] The more countries are involved in the system of diagonal cumulation of origin, the greater the potential for cumulation of material, and the economic benefits for all those in the system. This system includes the European Union, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey only for industrial products. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this conclusion is a prerequisite for accepting the position of the Republic of Croatia on inclusion in the system of diagonal cumulation of origin, which will improve business conditions for Croatian businessmen and their competitiveness in international frameworks. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion adopting a proposal for a decision adopting the position of the Republic of Croatia on amendments to Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Croatia on the other. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67175	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS-HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I will, since it was an exhaustive presentation by Mr. Secretary of State, underline two points of this decision because it seems important to me, and at the very beginning I will say that the HNS-HSU Club will accept the proposal for a Decision adopting the position of the Republic of Croatia on amendments and amendments to Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the Republic of Croatia, which also makes the first point of the proposal for a decision. I refer further to point 2 of the decision, which says that the Republic of Croatia is involved in the SAP system of diagonal cumulation. We also heard from the secretary of state who says that the system of diagonal cumulation of origin allows the manufacturer to include materials from another country in the system and to export it as his own product into a third country included in the system. This certainly represents a benefit for all those who are in the system because the origin of the goods becomes an important and decisive factor on which it depends whether any goods will gain privileged status in international trade. We certainly want Croatian products to gain privileged status in international trade in this regard and therefore we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67177	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the Honorable Representative and Vice-President of the House of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that all clubs, including all representatives today, will support making such a decision and I do not see which club or representative and representative would be against including the Republic of Croatia in this diagonal cumulation of origin within the system of countries that are in the stabilisation and accession system with the EU. Indeed, the fact presented in the decision is that the inclusion of the Republic of Croatia in the SAP system of diagonal cumulation protects the interests of the Croatian economy because it brings benefits, the obvious economic benefit of all economic operators and the countries involved. Therefore, the SDP club will also support and join all those who will vote in favour of this decision. However, here and during this positive, such a positive vote on this decision, at least 2 questions should be asked. The first question is why is this decision coming before the Parliament or why is this Protocol 4 only changing now? Only now does it mean that at least 4.5 years late how long other countries are in the environment, i.e. other countries that have signed a Stabilisation and Association Treaty, and in a commercial sense this means a Free Trade Treaty with the EU, in which time other countries have had this opportunity for their own products in which they are incorporated, re-promotions from these countries, from any of these countries when they are exported to the EU to have a practically zero rate of customs. We have had such benefits within 4.5 years as this possibility of accessing such changes to our economy's protocol has been opened, our exporters have not had such an opportunity and it is indeed to wonder who has protected the interests of Croatian businessmen during this decision now. The particular problem during this time was for the textile industry, the shoe industry, and especially from the moment when goods or materials from Turkey, when they could be involved in such diagonal cumulation and were not included. So all our exports of textiles, for example. When made of materials, fabrics imported from Turkey, and that was not limited, or even on the other hand, it is possible to talk about other unfinished agreements which are, for example, still incomplete. prevent the inclusion of materials from CEFTA and EFTA countries from being in Switzerland and Norway from bringing customs benefits. It means that for all this time our goods have entered, our exports of textile products on the European market have been burdened if this is the case. Turkish material was installed, was burdened with customs duties which, for the textile industry and otherwise before the crisis, were affected by the low prices of other textile producers, which meant for the textile industry the inability to make a contract or give up the contract because they were at least uncompetitive in contrast to European customs duties which were not subject to the exception for them. Therefore, I think there were enough reasons and even in the context of this decision to talk about it, to say something and even to calculate something for MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, to say how much it is, for example. in those 4,5 years, the reduced or objectively reduced possibility of our exports due to the non-application of preferential customs rates or zero customs rates due to the lack of such amended Protocol 4. Or at least we could be told what it would mean for our exports of textiles, shoes or some other industrial branches after the protocol has entered into force. Therefore, I believe that the saying "Better Ever" cannot be applied here, of course it is better to go with this Protocol now, but for what has not seemed to have so far, I think these questions should be asked, that it should be asked who is responsible for so delaying the adoption of this Protocol and which is why this Protocol has been through all these years, which is why it has not come to agree with the European Union. The second question to be asked which is equally interested in our industry, exporters, is what is now, which is the fastest procedure for such accepted amendments to Protocol 4 to come into force when they can really expect 0 customs rates in their exports to the European Union when they are installing materials from Turkey, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Albania, Montenegro or all of these countries that will now be included in this system of diagonal cumulation of origin. Therefore, with this in mind, we can really make serious remarks about what has not been made so far and we would like to take such a decision with the invitation to make the fastest possible procedure possible now and that the actual exemptions from paying customs duty at the time of exit to the European Union functioned in the way agreed in 2001 in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement when free trade with the European Union was agreed, when it was in force bilaterally that cumulation of origin, means materials, i.e. products that have been exported from Croatia to the European Union since 2001, is worth a zero rate if materials from the European Union are incorporated, and now, after all these years, we are able to expand that round of countries whose materials are counted as Croatian products and whose exports can receive customs benefits or total exemption from customs duties. I think it is important to make sure that this procedure ends within a month of two days and that what has been missed in 4 years, at least by 4 months of this year, starts to be applied, which will certainly be welcomed by our exporters of goods to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67179	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, we have one reported, it is a respected representative of Bianca Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here I am very pleased to discuss this issue today because I, as State Secretary in the Ministry of Economy, also participated in the struggle for this to be in the Parliament today. In the beginning, let me just take a brief look at what MP Mimica said. It is not true that it has waited four years, and the SAAs came into effect only at the end of 2009, and yet the decision on this is not made by our Government, but by the European Commission, and it did so only in October of last year. And certainly the fact is that this is a big swing for the Croatian economy and a great help for Croatian export-related companies, however, the overall solution to our problem stands in the signing of a regional convention on pan-Euro Mediterranean preferential rules of origin, so-called. The PEM Convention, or Croatia becoming a Pan-euro honey participant, was to happen at the end of June last year, however, because of the procedural errors and slowness of the administration of the member states, Croatia was not in the package then, it was not a point... but it was all agreed then. That is why the Ministry of Economy and the Government launched the procedure, and we reiterated our request to the European Commission to make a quick political decision on Croatia's inclusion in the SAP system of diagonal cumulation of origin. The SAB system is made up of countries of the European Union, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey only for industrial products. After the government received a positive response from the European Commission in October last year and with Croatia being included in the SAP system, the Commission has declared that we should continue to work on entering PAN Euromed, however, that all assumptions have now been created that Croatia becomes a member of the SAP system of diagonal cumulation of capital, and the decision on this means inclusion in the SAP system will be implemented as the Secretary of State said by decision of the SSV Council. The procedure implemented in Croatia in this respect is prescribed by the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, and by the Law on Association of the Agreement, on the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. And now, in particular, why this is important and what it means for the Croatian economy. I am sincerely convinced that the wider public does not understand the public involvement of Croatia in the SAP system of diagonal cumulation of origin because these protect the interests of Croatian businessmen, this brings benefit to all economic operators and countries involved in it and since it enables the manufacturer to include materials from another country in his product to put as the origin of the country in this case to place the origin of that product from Croatia, which of course allows customs privileges and of course enables a more competitive appearance on the international market. For Croatia, the issue of inclusion in the SAP is extremely important for our textile industry, which has 21 thousand employees, leather industry and footwear which has about 9,000 employees, a metal industry that together with shipbuilding has 39,000 employees, therefore I am not talking about what number of jobs this is about, which is why it is precisely this inclusion in the SAP system that is important. Of course, this is about the distribution content of large companies, world firms located in the Republic of Croatia and which, through their distribution warehouses in countries of the region, distribute goods of wide-ranging consumption. According to the latest data from the customs administration, more than 600 distribution centres are, of course, big worldwide companies L'oreal, Nestle, Neutroroberts, Nivea etc., and several thousand jobs in Croatia. This inclusion in the SAP system guarantees that their stay here is guaranteed not to move to any country of the region involved. The entry into the SAP system will consider the product to be originating in a country where the processing or processing carried out is greater than those considered insufficient to obtain origin. And if not, such a product will be considered from the country to which the maximum value is added. This is absolutely in the interest of Croatian economies and Croatian companies which are exporters, who are fighting for their competitiveness in the international market, especially with countries with which Croatia already has a signed Free Trade Agreement and distribution warehouses or centres that employ Croatian labour. Of course, for the development of industry, what we have listed is the introduction and application of new technologies into the production process, adapting to Western market standards. However, this is definitely one big step towards strengthening Croatia's economy, and with the aim of making better use of all the advantages that Croatia has from productive, geographical to infrastructure potential, as well as, of course, strengthening the international competitiveness of Croatian companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67181	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote, a distinguished representative and vice president of the House of Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67182	Thank you very much. Well, I would correct the incorrect allegations that the respected representative Matkovic had not been waiting four years for such a decision, but that it was a shorter period. Namely, here I have a table which is attached with the answer of the Minister of Economy at the time to my representative's question from about a year and a half from which it is visible, for example. that Albania was the same as Macedonia was involved in the diagonal cumulation of origin on that date, already it was open for Croatia at the time. Other countries have done so in 2008, and the whole system has been open to products from Turkey since 27 July 2006. Therefore, if I ask for an answer to the question of why it was waiting, I think, and if I ask for responsibility, I would recommend that it should focus not on the Ministry of Economy, but on the Ministry of Agriculture there you could find answers, so it took 4.5 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67183	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur want the rapporteur final? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67184	Proposal for a Decision adopting the position of the Republic of Croatia on amendments and amendments to Protocol 4 to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, of the other part, with a proposal for a conclusion. I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion that reads: "The proposed decision is accepted." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that the conclusion was unanimously reached by 98 votes and that conclusion will be delivered to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for decision-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67185	We move to point 4. that is - Decision amending the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts - Confirmation Proposer of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts proposed this decision on the basis of Article 6. Law on Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Professor, Dr. Jakša Barbić vice president of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67186	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam Representatives, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Before you is the decision on amendments to the Statutes of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which was made under the obligation of the founder of the Croatian Assembly to amend the Law on Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. And we've actually made three changes. I'll say briefly what this is about. First, it is excluded in the selection of co-workers that they are generally younger scientists, because that is what the law says. Secondly, in the election or in the subsequent re-election of the members of the co-workers in accordance with the law, the re-election is now envisaged only after 10 years, after which membership becomes permanent, for life it was not then. And finally the third change on which the mandates of all those who act in the presidency of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts are now for 4 years now meant to the President, the Vice-President, the Secretary-General, the Class Secretary and the Vice-Secretary of the Class. That's all we've done by doing exactly what the law requires. So if this amendment of the Statute is confirmed, and we propose, then the Statute of the Academy would be fully in line with the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67187	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Committee on Education, Science and Culture President-in-Office Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67188	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Academy of the Croatian Academy, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 35th session of February 2nd this year the Proposal for a Decision on amendments to the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, not to read all these numbers. The Committee discussed the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions as a parent working body. In the opening part of the proposal, the applicant pointed out that the decision to amend and supplement the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is in line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, with what Mr. Academyk has already said. Therefore, the relevant harmonisation of the technical nature and the provisions and those regulations are harmonised in such a way as to include members of the Academy with honorary, regular and correspondence members. The duration of the term of office of members of the academy's presidency from three extended to 4 years and then the membership of the co-workers became a lifelong re-election 10 years after the first election. In the discussion, the committee members made certain comments and a proposal. The opinion of the members of the Committee that amendments to the Statutes should also be used to establish a class for visual art, film and theatre, as suggested by the Croatian Parliament on 5 November 2010. The debate also voiced confidence that the new academy administration will be more open to expanding activities. After the debate, the committee decided to propose the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament, with the majority of votes 5 for and three abstentions. It is accepted to adopt a Decision confirming the amendments and additions to the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67189	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Nevio Šetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67190	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Academy. Here we have ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and representatives before us the adoption of a very short amendment and addition of the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. Namely, it is necessary to align the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts with the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. In fact, the amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts are more clearly forming who are members of the Academy i.e. category of membership. In this respect, Article 22(2) is amended as follows: The statutes now read as follows: "The members of the academy are ranks, honors, correspondence and associates", so four categories. This decision on amendments and additions to the Statutes of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is also amended in Article 23, and these paragraphs 1 and 2. They read more clearly as to who is elected as a member of the co-workers, namely, a scientist or artist of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia whose achievements in the field of scientific or artistic activities are generally known and who will cooperate in a particular field of activity of the Academy. And in Article 2 of the associate membership, it remains a life-long re-election after 10 years of the first election. Thus, the small misunderstanding that was on the line of the existing statute and the Law was removed. There has also been, as we have already heard another small change, and these are the length of the term of office of officials of the Academy who moved from three to four years, it is kind of Croatia and general European practice and we support it in a round of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. And we still have some details that appeared in the debate, I will point out here because the founder of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts has already twice referred to the Croatian Academy for consideration of adoption in Article 9. The statutes have classes of the Academy where there are 9, and the Croatian Parliament as founder believes that the next 10th grade should be passed and this is the class for the show art it is a film and theatre, because it is considered that the Croatian Academy of Arts as one of the highest institutions in science should cover all areas, it was already proposed, and perhaps in the following changes it is adopted, so we have a class for social sciences, a class for mathematical, physical, chemical sciences, a class for natural sciences, a class for medical sciences, a class for philosophy, a class for literature, a class for art, a class for music and music, a class for technical sciences, and it is also proposed to consider visual art. The movie and the theater. Since there has been twice such a proposal from this High House, it may be found in the following decisions. In this respect, I will not be obliged to support but on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club for the adoption of a proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67191	I thank you for moving on to an individual debate. We have one application, Your Honor, Mr. Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67192	Thank you very much. I believe that the amendments to the Statute are an opportunity for a kind of redefinition of what is regulated by the Statute. Whether it is a method of activity, whether or not it is an activity content. On several occasions in this institution we had an objection to the work of the Academy and we hoped that they would be respected, so we also expected that some of them would be respected and entered into the Statute on this occasion by changing the statutes. To us, Mr. Vice President of the Academy it is quite clear that you are part of the new administration, since the new administration, since each new set has at least 100 days of introduction and self-introduction, we will accept such technical changes of the Statute, but with one hope that you will hear more and listen to our remarks, they are well-intentioned, even when they are critical they are well-intentioned. That there will be much more young people in the Academy, that the Statutes of the Academy will be revitalized and activated, that HAZU will be much more public presence especially in crisis situations, that publication of the Academy will be much more accessible than in the narrow circle of people and also through electronic publication, not just what is said hot copy. In that hope we will accept this Statute but just as my predecessor has said and Mr. President of the Committee has mentioned few surprises and is concerned that your founder's decision to establish a new class of visual arts has met with rejection and almost ignoring. In fact, I think the Academy is and must be autonomous, but it would be optimal if one such institution would refuse its founder's proposal at least say the reasons why. I, of course, wish the academy and all of us a lot of success in our work, we will accept these suggestions of yours about changing the statutes, but please don't forget these hopes and on several occasions put forward proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67193	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Dragutin Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67194	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Professor Barbić. You said and mentioned that the Academy must be independent, I think it is said in the sense that normally every one of us supports as such, but it is certain that such documents and changes of such documents as this status are possible to regulate certain things that will prevent dilemmas and what happens often in public today, and there have been some discussions, as well as how some experts are receiving the Academy, or not receiving them. The other thing is the same thing that you mentioned the question of all those who, according to their vocabulary, belong to their society somehow, and could be at the Academy of the Community, and our Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, and I think it should be respected, especially if this is proposed by the Croatian Parliament and this class, which also mentioned today the second time that this Croatian Parliament as such encourages it. Normally, in this situation, we who are discussing the Parliament as such expect that, with all the independence that this Academy has, they should also respect and consider certain proposals that come from this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67195	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67196	Very short. My colleague and I agree with you in a lot of ways, maybe we need to focus on another of our wishes. In fact, externally, we had the impression that quite often when the election of members did not select the best, although the Law and Statute bound you to do so, from the very beginning the best husbands were supposed to be members of the Academy. There were better ones who had not been chosen, biblically speaking. So that's one of the elements of our concern and hope that it will be improved in future by a new administration. Otherwise I have nothing else to add. Here's the thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67197	Thank you. Does the Proposer's representative want to conclude? Yeah. Dear Professor Dr. Jaksa Barbic, vice president of the HAZU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67198	Dear Representatives, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts was founded by this body 150 years ago and we absolutely respect the opinion this founder has and it is necessary to discuss the things that are being carried out here in the Academy of Discussion. You said your colleague Flego 100 days. No, we've been in office for 30 days, and we're already on our way, so we're not asking for 100 days. There are two issues in our program that are extremely important and concerning what you have been saying here today. We'll open a discussion at the Academy on two vital issues. First, the internal organization of the Academy, I can't tell you anything because the Academy is one body that will discuss it, but we will run it and the second question is how members in the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts are elected. We are, however, bound by the law passed by the Croatian Parliament. I'll just tell you one detail of that law and we'll very seriously open up the debate to see that it changes. The proposal for the selection of members of the Academy may come from classes or from the ranks of institutions outside the Academy, but the Law on the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts stands and we had to put it in our statutes, that no proposal could come to an assembly that did not pass the class. Now, you, we are bound by your norm. We at the Academy will take this very seriously, we will open the debate very quickly and if the need shows we will go with one proposal to suggest that permanent changes are made, but I can't tell you anything because I'm just the vice president of the Academy. As a member of the new administration, the Academy is much wider than that, and we will, but what I can promise you will open this debate management because we put it in our program. As far as the Academy's work is concerned, I'll surprise you with something. We've now received a report on the seven-year work of the Academy. Can you believe this Academy published 1.6 editions a week in seven years? That 1.6 discussions, lectures on public, round tables, the opening of elections a week in seven years. It is the largest publisher in the Republic of Croatia and the biggest organizer of scientific discussions in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I ask you to consider this circumstance. You'll get our yearbook very soon, when we file a report and you'll see what a huge piece of work it is. The problem with the Croatian Academy is that we are not in the media, and we are not in the media because there is no scandal. If I were to grab my colleague's neck, the paper would write all about it, but when the Academy holds a meeting here tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen you know what the theme of the round table my scientific council is doing, elections by representatives in the Croatian Parliament and a referendum of the citizens' initiative. Is that a modern subject? Last year was the new Croatian local and regional self-government. Is that... The darkness? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've processed corruption, we've processed judicial reform, we've processed state administration reform, so I don't count on what. This scientific council has dealt with 12 subjects, 12 books have come out. We delivered these books to the relevant institutions in Croatia, they are public, they are available and we want to discuss modern Croatian society. What this administration is now running is my initiative, and very soon it will start, these are scientific discussions about the situation in Croatian society, where everyone who talks about it will not be just people from the Academy, but everyone who deals with a particular area. Because watch out, the Academy is a set of individuals who are the top of their profession, but they are individuals, and as a supreme institution, it must gather everything in this country about something and what it does. And our idea is this: in this debate that we will call the Forum of the Academy at certain times we are considering current social issues and answering four questions: what is the situation now, why we are in such a state, good, bad, that we will see, what we want to be in 2020 or 2030 and how it comes to this. We'll get those discussions started very quickly, it'll all be published and everyone can get it. In this area that I do, it is the Scientific Council for the State Administration, the Justice and the Rule of Law, we have published 12 books that are available to everyone, which we have delivered to the right places with precise proposals, in some of them even suggestions that should be written in the law. So the Academy does, not that it doesn't work, it's not so visible her work beyond what it does even though we do everything to do it, but if we're well followed, then the media will know it. But I thank you for your initiatives, this administration is going to launch a debate about it inside the Academy, we're going to see how the debate ends, but that we're not going to be our founder of something says, and we're going to be deaf about it, it certainly won't be. What will be the result I cannot tell you because watch out we are the Academy where discussions are scientific in classes, in tides etc. And I would just like to mention something to you, when Bishop Juraj Strossmayer started the establishment of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in 1861 and when this Parliament made a decision on the establishment then the task of that Academy was to be avant-garde and to look into the future. They were in serious conflict with the Austrian emperor then over things because Croatia was not a state, they wanted a national position etc. This Academy will keep that status and I promise you, we'll look into the future and now we've looked at a lot of things just don't know it, but now this activity is intensified and you'll feel it. If the media follows us, you'll see it, but our founder always gets everything we do, so you'll be able to find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67199	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67200	Decision on amendments to the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. I am voting in favour of the decision to confirm the decision to amend and supplement the Statute of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. With 87 votes in favour and 5 abstentions, the decision to confirm the Decision on amendments and additions to the HAZU Statute was taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67201	Moving to point 5. It is - Proposed law on preventing conflicts of interest, first reading, P.Z. No. 703 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67202	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. In front of you is the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, a brand-new law, a law that will replace, intended to replace the 2003 law, which in the meantime in 7 years, 7 and a half years of application has been novelized as many as 6 times. However, a law that does not meet today's moment and today's position as a candidate for entry into the European Union in its substance norms. What is the purpose of the applicant's intensity? First of all, bring this proposal into line, which is in line with the United Nations Convention on Corruption adopted in 2005. So after the start of our now applicable law, to bring it into line with the strategy of this High House, the Corruption Prevention Strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament on 19 June 2008. In addition, the third is an international component, which means to bring the law into line with the acquis, with the achievements that the European Union and its members have done in this area, a significant area. The fourth is both internal and part of extreme character, which means learning in your own experience, removing, predicting norms, better defining institutes than it does today's applicable law, and besides, respecting those good opinions, good practice, good solutions offered in the European legal space, compete and compare, and then not mechanically, but enter what is necessary and what is applicable in our legal system. So from this final round of issues which, as well as their own experience and European experiences, are actually the inaccuracies, i.e. the lack of accuracy of today's law. First of all, we can share it in several areas, within the circle of the obligors that apply this law on a stronger definition of the performance of the possibility or inability to perform another public function by the obligors of the application of this law, namely by the officials of how the bill and named them after the termination of the duty of how to regulate the position of the former official in relation to the business entities with whom, in relation to the bodies in which he acted, business entities operating with that body, which, with the restriction of the share in the capital of the company, left it, reduced it to the debtor and a very strong issue, a strong question of how to truly ensure independence, good choice, independence and then trust in the key institution of this system that is proposed, which is the Commission to combat conflicts of interest. In addition, what is almost a constant pain in Croatian legislation, which is an insufficient system of sanctions. This law offers some interesting and seems to us at least in the proposal that very effective solutions are expected to be discussed. Here's a little bit when we go maybe two, three sentences about content. First of all, the scope of the application of this law will also be extended to senior civil servants. However, in a reduced scope, as I remind you that the Law on civil servants had been introduced years ago by this institute of conflict of interest in the Croatian legal system in 2005, and this is about only one supplementation related to the submission of property cards, property reports of government officials. The possibility, i.e. the inability to perform another public function, other public duties, is also resolved. Exceptions are, should only be prescribed by law, and enlargement is also proposed to spread from state level to level and application and to local officials. The restrictions to be imposed as an instrument in this proposal where the restrictions after one year of termination of office are not to be accepted by the official or by the appointment of the legal person with which the body, with whom the official has been in a business relationship, shall not be accepted by the official. In addition, the limit of the share in ownership, i.e. the capital of the company, is raised from the current 0.5% to 20%. An instrumentation is prescribed to verify that the commission has no ambition, there is no legal possibility of becoming the body that judges it only determines the conflict of interest. And everything that comes out of his competence forwards and reports to the competent state authorities. Finally, the commission. The commission should be independent. It is proposed to be chosen by the basis of a public invitation, to be elected by the Croatian Parliament. But that the possibilities for its resolution are established, that is to say, the termination of the duties of its members, are determined by law itself. And, of course, after all this comes a system of sanctions where there are two interesting sanctions that are not and should not be called sanctions. And there you will see in further discussion whether they have, whether they need to be groomed. Because this is a proposal to relieve the appointed official, or a motion to call off the elected official. These two issues of these several issues, and in particular the composition of the commission, the way he was elected by a half-dozen or two-thirds majority, were very heated, the bile debate on committees and it is worth discussing again. It is a significant norm and would be very nice to achieve in this part as much as possible parliamentary consensus. Because trust in this body is actually a key mechanism for implementing this law. It seems that, thanks to everyone on the board who discussed about it, we still seem to have enough time, enough time to make most of the remarks and to respond to all the dilemmas that still the proposal is not excessively large, but still the dilemmas that this proposal makes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67203	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. President of the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure, Vice-President of the House, Honorable Representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67204	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 65th session held on 2 February this year discussed the proposal for a law on preventing conflicts of interest. The Committee discussed the proposal on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Committee supported the bill, stressing that its adoption was one of the sub-measures for closing Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental human rights. However, in the debate, the committee members made comments on certain proposed legal solutions. As regards the proposal that the Committee for the Decision on Conflict of Interest may call on the elected officer to resign in the event of a breach of the law, an opinion has been expressed on the possible disagreement of the proposed provision with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and that such provision could lead to a kind of disenfranchisement of the Croatian Parliament. In this regard, and according to the UK legal solution, a proposal has been made that such sanctions should be expressed by the Croatian Parliament's commission. Article 3(3) of the Law should be amended in a way that also applies to management officers in units of local and regional (regional) self-government. For the purposes of Article 4(5), it is considered that the circle of the related persons is too wide and that the unclear formulation to which the persons and all those who may be considered to be interested is linked to the official is unclear. Article 12(1) should be specified in a way that the apparent incompatibility of the conduct of the duties is prescribed by other laws. As regards paragraph 3 of the same article, the opinion is also expressed that an excessively wide range of tasks that the official may carry out without the approval of the Commission is too wide. The Commission’s approval also raised a question about the methodology and criteria of the opportunity to make such a decision. As regards Article 13, the opinion is expressed that the principle of prohibition of membership in the administrative bodies and supervisory boards of commercial companies, the administrative boards of institutions and the supervisory committees of extra-financial funds should be consistently implemented both at the state and at the level of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. As regards Article 14, an opinion has been given on the need to supplement the way in which members of the administrative bodies and supervisory committees are proposed at unit level of local and regional self-government. As regards Articles 15 and 16, the opinion is expressed that a conflict of interest cannot be limited to a certain percentage of the shares, i.e. a share in ownership, since any business with the State can lead to a conflict of interest. With regard to the establishment of the Committee for the Decision on Conflict of Interest, an observation was made to the required majority for the election of presidents and members, with the opinion expressed that a two-thirds majority should be prescribed for their choice. As regards Article 32, which provides for conditions for the selection of presidents and members of the committee, the opinion is that the conditions and experience in the fight against corruption and the prevention of conflicts of interest significantly narrows the circle of persons who might be selected. The comments were also made to the proposed salary levels of the president and the members of the commission, and to the right to return to work on the same or relevant jobs with the same employer. With regard to Chapter 5 which imposes sanctions for infringement of the provisions of the law, the opinion has been expressed that it should be reconsidered, i.e. to level the sanctions for appointed and elected officials. It is also necessary to specify the provision of Article 43 in such a way as to show which sanctions can be brought against the administrative dispute. After the debate, the committee proposed by a majority of votes, 6 votes in favour and 2 votes against the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: the proposal for a Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate in the draft law at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67205	You have a correction to an incorrect quote, but I must tell you that this is the first time anyone has tried to correct it. ... When? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is not specified by the Rules of Procedure, but so far it has not been a practice in the Parliament. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, we've never fixed it before. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That if someone did it wrong, it shouldn't be, you'll have a chance to state your position in the debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Does the Legislative Committee want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Emil Tomljanovic, chairman of the board and parliamentary representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the 115th session held on 1 February 2011, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law, the text of the proposal is submitted by the Committee to the following observations and proposals. First, Article 2(2) proposes to supplement the provision in order to include strengthening, i.e. ensuring impartiality. Article 3 proposes to supplement the expression of certain provisions, and to review the possibility of including both presidents and members of the management of companies that are wholly owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government, but also the city of Zagreb. In Article 8(3), as regards the delivery of information and evidence, it is necessary to exclude the delivery of facts. In Article 34(1), to align the expression with the remaining provisions, as it is not a designation, but rather a selection of presidents and members of the commission. In Article 41, it is proposed to supplement and elaborate the provisions of points 1 to 3 and 4, as the proposed solutions are questionable about the inability to call, such as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and it is doubtful whether the commission can submit a proposal for a solution, for example for the resolution of a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia or the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 42 of the provision of paragraph 4, it shall be shown that it is a daily newspaper that is sold throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In Article 50, it is proposed to review each other paragraphs 1 and 2 in order not to be in conflict with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67207	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, committees, in committee conclusions, the Committee's expert service is dubiously referred to as the Committee's content of the debate. If the report of the Committee on a draft law saw an overall debate, then it should simply be transferred to the report the full content of the Committee's working body session, the phonogram from the entire session, and that would be the debate report. So, ad literate the entire content of the board's session. Clearly shortened versions are presented as seen by the professional service in the main lines. Sure as hell can't leave everything out. If you read carefully then you'd see that he's the one, you're alluding to professor's opinion. It's just that it was brought out in the first place. That the members of the board have made observations, I am not saying which, I am not quoting an individual professor member of the Committee, an external member, but I am saying what this is about the delegation of the Croatian Parliament in disagreement with the Constitution. That's what it says here. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67208	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. He used to say, "Professor." Barbie would only write about us if we could grab someone's neck, and I wanted to replicate it to him, so be happy they don't write about you. Because if you were an agent, you wouldn't have to grab anyone's neck, and in advance everyone would have written at the very least that you were a bandit, a criminal, or I don't know what else. But let's make that observation now. Surely we need this Law of Conflict of Interest. We need a new law. But I also agree with this committee's argument not that law. This new law must also not be the consequence of a paranoia that simply rules that everyone, but everyone in politics, are criminals, bandits should already clearly be one law that will be able to monitor the behaviour of officials, but where above this Assembly cannot be some quasi-body that will have more power than the Croatian Parliament and which will thus be commanded both the Government and the Ministers and the Croatian President and all other institutions in the Republic of Croatia. In one word, this body must not be a court and SIS and the UDBA and the USKOK and the investigator and state attorney and communists do not know the commission of origin of property and court of party and inquisition and all that together. We just can't turn this body into that. In one word, the MPs understandably can resolve it only or can be resolved only by the citizens and can be dismissed by the court. And no one's out of it. I also agree that some people in politics have stolen the state, the same thing at local level, the same thing in public systems either down or at the state level. That's all true, but that's why we have courts, and then these people should be sued, they should be dared, but this Parliament, I agree with this argument, must not marginalize, must not be disproved. Unfortunately, this practice in this country has long ruled. First, we disbursed the Parliament and gave incredible powers to the executive government, and now we've been giving some quasi-institutions lately. I am absolutely to regulate the conflict of interest, I just want to point out that IDS was still in '96, I think it was the first such attempt, proposed such a law. It didn't go through then, okay? It doesn't matter. But what matters is, it's good, that this law is at this point in the first reading. I agree it's an important law, although on the other hand I'm afraid he's going to sort it out a little bit. This poor, not to say stolen country deserves a clear sense that it has both fair authority and fair opposition and fair justice and fair local self-government. One word that has a fair and successful either local or this state government. What bothers me most is that we simply allow some through legal texts a privileged monopoly position on the market. And it doesn't matter if it's some companies from Istria, or some other companies where they've been speculating and talking a lot lately. I don't want to apostrophe anyone right now. Whether they're designing, whether they're funding the same under these conditions, but it also takes something else to get us, when we're talking about this crime, both Austria and Switzerland and Liechtenstein and for me to know who doesn't, to deliver secret accounts that simply bought something or laundered money. Where is Croatia today? I'll just say it in one sentence. Unfortunately, our best sons, the ones who brought down Yugoslavia, stole this country, then stole Croatia. Some destroyed Yugoslavia, Croatia was not allowed to steal on a working day to confess on Sundays. What is the greatest gentlemen conflict of interest in 2011? Are those black funds? No, they're not. Is that, I know, public procurement? I'm saying it's not, either. A conversion? Okay, but it's not either. I think the greatest conflict of interest is just this privilege of someone, of bringing someone into a privileged position through, say, positive regulations. And it's just in action today. On the other hand, you or we can do anything today. Anyone can spit on Caine, by you, by Mr. Seks, I don't know Linić, Mrs. Kosor, but you can't do two things: suspect Croatian tycoons, that's number one, and in some media that I don't apostrophe them now so they don't sue me again. Well, let's see who can get on with it. And what would that mean on a personal occasion, I can convince. That these tycoons, the media are far more powerful than the most representative institutions in this country, you have to be sure no one has to doubt that. It's just the truth. Every single one of us can tell you this or that, bandit, corrupt, thief, war criminal, but tell it to someone in the media or someone in the capital, and then you'll have a bad time. So, what's the biggest problem and the biggest conflict of interest at this time? It's writing a law for a particular group and then ensuring, or providing them, some privileged position on the market. To go back, however, to the law. A man can be in politics for 20 years and he doesn't have to have anything, he can be 20 days, he can have everything, he can be super-apolitical, and then politics can be set up again through some business relationship, and it can also be represented all the time independent, so when the day comes, he'll just have to return those certain benefits. Comments, Article 3. I also agree here to extend the circle of officials, but also to which. I suggest that not only the directors of public systems be included at local level, but also the judges and state lawyers, and the prime minister's advisors. Someone's gonna say, you can't do that, it can quote this on the side of the first for the first time I won't. But I think that would be correct. I mean, what's going on in Croatia, clearly, has been going through a lot of countries in Europe. However, if in one Austria someone steals a billion euros or 100 million euros, it is noticeable, but Croatia destroys it. Why did I mention judges and state attorneys, and also the judiciary of corruption as well as elsewhere, let's not just fool ourselves now that it's not there. Article 3(1)(31) here states: "The presidents of members of the management of companies that are wholly state-owned". What if the state has, say, 75% of the share of a company, why wouldn't it be treated the same way as an agent, which usually affects a little bit if there's that 0.5% in some company. Participation in the Supervisory Board. I assure you, gentlemen, this disenfranchisement of the Parliament that I started with is simply not productive. Is it better to say that in one INA, I will now make it concrete to be people from... and Croatia to ensure people from Konzum from, say, officials. So these guys are going to take them. This is what we had the opportunity to hear now when buying an INA stock where one company is said to intend to take 18, 20 or we don't know how much of the company. Isn't that a conflict of interest? It's like giving sheep to a wolf. Although someone will say that these little wolves from the ranks of officials have also committed murder in that tower or in the barn. The commission says it must be depolitised, etc. Well, Mrs. Tomic, I'm not going to say that someone's guilty, no, but just a little bit higher than Mrs. Tomic's parallel was not depolitized, independent, so who guarantees that the next day that they are named here will be more fair than our politicians who are today at the head of that body or that they actually are. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, for example. Mr. Nobillo's lawyer said politicians are worse than criminals. Pretty much. There's something about it, because the team in power was easy not to know by one move to get to 5, 10, 15 million of this or that, the gang is a lot harder, even though I replied that if there were really some polling or lawyers wouldn't have had a good time, but surely there are more depressed people in politics than there are in lawyers. So close, so somebody call me. Or an example, an independent Mr. Krsticevic advisor to the prime minister. That's why I said that the prime minister's advisors should not only be classified as president. With the state, the man did 600 million kuna. Maybe he's in charge of the state. It is. During the war at the 4th Guard Brigade. But I think the state has made it up to him in some way. Or some other counselor, Mr. Skegro, or some other government people who were recently elected, etc. There were a lot of them at some point independent, but when they were supposed to get something, so on and so forth. Very clearly, they declared themselves to be members of the ruling party at the moment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Paragraph 4 states: "Operation of officials in doubt in the existence of conflicts of interest that after the election of appointments to public office, the official is the office to settle his private affairs in order to prevent the intended conflict of interest" etc. Then it's said that we should transfer our jobs or so-called. Law offices. I mean, the problem is far greater if the Parliament writes to someone else's laws than when it's passed to these offices, even if this is at least questionable. Well, does anyone think, for example? Tomorrow let him be elected to Parliament that he will not resent me if I mention Mr. Kerum to leave him to someone to run the company that he will not or will not do after the 2009 elections. Article 15, 16, 17, membership of administrative bodies and supervisory committees. Reading like this actually seems like we're blocking anyone from the economy from entering politics. I mean, not everyone in the economy is the key to conversion or I don't know what. Not to forget, before I mentioned the prime minister's advisors who should also be included in the officials, as well as the president's advisers. What about management memberships if they don't have shares to go into politics, and they're waiting for a place in the company? And then you say you can't go for a year. And what about those who come from employers' associations into politics, economic chambers, etc.? I don't know what to call him, so I can go back to normal. I'm asking myself, is there a company that has 0.5 or 10% or 15% that can do business with public authorities? Why not? Can't work be won in a public competition fair. Is that company and that 50, 100 or 150 people supposed to be destroyed? Shouldn't you maybe take care of those employees too? If you don't have a job, if you don't work, you'll be out of business. And what did you do? You simply deleted the subject. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Let's not create then, you know, if we say so, you mustn't have a problem with the retirement of these people. Well, it's not the point of what I said one year to get you that appointment, 6 months of full pay, 6 months of 50%, and then getting a job back at that company that you've done business with before or where you've been rather than just not being anywhere, so you can say that's why I'm in politics. What's far more important is the privatisation of banks, T-HT, the hotel sector, all the directors who were there through the conversion continued to work for new owners. Not to mention T-HT, I'm going to say this example to the director of Liburnia who stays with Mr. Ostoja, etc., etc. I see this is lower now. So it's not the law's problem, the law should, but it should simply be kept on all these moments of accounts so as not to destroy business entities without predetermining people who are in Croatian politics. And the thieves clearly, we have a state attorney, we have courts, they need to be removed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67209	Comrade Cain, you have made one very strange claim to the least, that those who have destroyed Yugoslavia have robbed Croatia. The Croatian Parliament established October 8, 1991. The year that has accepted both international law and the Security Council that Yugoslavia has fallen apart, and those who robbed it are those who have committed an armed aggression against Croatia, that is Serbia and the Yugoslav Army. They robbed Croatia. So be more careful with this because the subtext of your claim was that those who created Croatia, who freed Croatia that they were Croatia and robbed them. It's a very careless claim... And that's why I'm obliged to give explanations as chair of the sessions on a possible very dangerous thesis and we want you here to, Mr. Cain, deny it or confirm it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] If you claim that those who have freed Croatia and created Croatia that they have robbed Croatia then it will be a more difficult moral approach given in this House. Here you go, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67210	I know that you, Mr. Vice President, consider it a personification of Croatian statehood as you recently stated in the Croatian list and repeated it in other media. However, I agree, I may need to correct myself, perhaps I was inaccurate in a way that some who created or created the Croatian state also participated in the robbery of the Croatian state. Five days a week robbed, and the seventh day confessed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67211	This is a serious insult, a serious insult. I give you a warning. ... It's a big insult. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] It's a big insult. That you called Croatian liberators Croatian robbers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67212	I didn't mention the liberators or the defenders or anyone who poured blood and gave the body for this country and you know it very well and understand it. And I don't need to impute something I didn't even think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67213	I don't consider myself a personification of Croatia, you should have read something a little better. .../Speakers speak in the same voice./... Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course never, but I will never let anyone say that Croatia has stolen, the Croatian country that they stole the best Croatian sons. No, it wasn't the best Croatian sons who stole it, it was the thieves, and they're in jail. And another thing, speaking of Croatia, is that this is a poor country. No, it is not a poor country, this Croatia has not been poor for 50 years under communist rule, this Croatia was not poor when it fought for its independence and will never be poor because it is proud and will always be proud of Croatia. Who bothers me is very sorry. And something else about Nobil and Caine, they say, "Listen to who's talking, not what, but it's really hard."
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67215	Madam Representative Tanja Vrbat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67216	Thank you. Comrade Cain, I will correct your quote the next time you say this is so-called. Disposal of the Croatian Parliament is not productive. I don't think that's true, not that it's not productive, but it's not constitutional, and I think we're all aware of that here. I'm surprised, too, and I'm sorry to have to say this. Mr. Piculjan, you've defended this bill now here and you're a candidate for judge of the Constitutional Court. I can't really be surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67217	Let us be colleagues and colleagues careful about historical assessments because we make the claim, and it is picturesque that the best sons of the Croatian people who created Croatia at the same time robbed Croatia for five days, these are very dangerous thesis Allegedly. ... [[Intruder: Under quotes.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67218	You all understood very well. You're not so naive that you don't understand me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67219	You know, colleague Cain, if they listen to this, I suppose a number of Croatian defenders will say so what is it in the Croatian Parliament is said that we are the best sons of Croatian people as defenders and creators of Croatia... Let's not twist the claims, Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67222	We understand each other very well. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67223	No, no, no. You can see, yes, yes. ... It takes a lot of lessons on elemental things. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. So here I will start by saying that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal for a law on preventing conflicts of interest. The law is in a regular parliamentary procedure, so first reading. It may also be important to point out in this regard that for the first time this problem or prevention, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Public Dutys was adopted in 2003 and since then almost every year it has been amended and amended, so the institutes have changed, six times it has been done what is here and in this sense the answer to the question, or quite certainly, about these institutes is not easy to edit and it is necessary to find the right model in order for all these institutes to be properly regulated in this law. In its definition of conflict of interest, there is, in particular, where the private interests of officials are contrary to the public interest, and in particular where the private interest of the official affects his impartiality in the exercise of public duty, or where the private interest of the official affects or may affect his impartiality in the exercise of public duty. Therefore, from the very definition of conflict of interest it is evident that the matter in question is indeed not easy to regulate by law because the possibilities of conflicting private and public are actually so great that in certain segments it is also impossible to do so. So, in a way that all these situations are regulated by law. However, due to the importance of the Institute in the field of prevention of any corrupt behaviour of civil servants, further efforts should be made to regulate the matter in the best possible way and, therefore, in the normative standard, to bring the Member States of the European Union closer to the full criteria and criteria. The new law or law that is before us is conceived in a way that introduces new solutions that should effectively address the shortcomings that have initially occurred in the application of the applicable laws, but also improve the concept of understanding and preventing conflicts of interest ultimately have a legitimate effect on countering corruption or corrupt behaviour in the Republic of Croatia. Of these observed shortcomings in the application of the law, it is particularly important to highlight, therefore, the three institutes which the proposed law defines differently from previous legal solutions. There are many new legal solutions or different from those that have been arranged so far in the legal text. There are if we count them somewhere around eight or ten really new institutes. However, these three seem to me to be extremely important, that is, those that are either crucial or crucial in terms of amending the legal provisions. In the first instance, therefore, there is a lack of effective verification of the report on the property of officials. It's that property card and everything that's connected to the property card that's being processed by law. The second is to strengthen the independence of the commission by deciding on a conflict of interest and removing political influence on the composition and work of the commission. So this is this new model in terms of the functioning and appointment of the commission itself, which is really very different than it has been governed by the law so far. And thirdly, therefore, a insufficiently effective sanctioning system was observed, and then in these new legal decisions we have therefore an extended circle of sanctions. Some of them, therefore, have already had a lot of words in the opening presentation, i.e. the opening explanation of the secretary of state, and in the reports of the working bodies, hence the Croatian Parliament's reply. As regards the first institute, therefore, or an effective check of the report on the property status of the official. Therefore, the possibility of verifying the property report of officials, verifying the credibility of the property card is one of the basic newspapers of the proposed law. The verification of the data from the reports submitted by the officials to the legal decisions themselves may be a prior or administrative check, and regular verification. In order to carry out checks, the Commission may request data not only from the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia but also from an international association or from a foreign organisation. It also goes to the fact that the Commission has both powers and opportunities to request all data so that the submitted property card is indeed credible and that it would therefore reflect the real state of the declared property of the government official. We all know how it has been so far and, in fact, in all these discussions in terms of the application of the law itself, these shortcomings have been observed, these remarks have been pointed out. Comments in the sense that, after having submitted the property card, after declaring the property of the officials, the commission was not able to do something after that, to properly verify, compare the data, and in this sense, this change gives the Commission more opportunity to be active, it can therefore play an active role not only but in all those disputed situations only with its own birth, by verifying the real state of the declared property of each state official. Second, then. The proposed legislative solution strengthens not only the independence of the commission, therefore independence but also removes the possibility of political influence on the work of the commission. Because the commission is defined as an independent state body. In this respect, there is also private financial resources. The members of the commission are elected by the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a list of candidates drawn up by the Board of Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. The term of office is five years, and among the necessary conditions with the president and members of the commission it is prescribed not only that someone is not a member of the political party but that he has not been a member of the political party for the past five years since running for president and member of the commission. So it's really a new concept, a new model, a new legal definition of the commission. And the promoter, therefore a resolute ministry and the Government, has indeed defined the commission in terms of its and its independence on the one hand and as far as possible from the impact of direct policy under quotes in such a way that more parliamentary representatives as politicians are not on the proposed basis of the proposal, so the members of the commission themselves and the law are detailedly regulated by the way in which members of the commission can be elected who, as formally carried out, the choice of the commission themselves. These basic things have been done with the very legal proposal. However, it is, of course, the first reading. The law is in the first reading, the regular parliamentary procedure. And all that has been said in discussions on the home working body, on committees, I think that the proposing representatives will take further account of and perhaps consider in a segment, therefore further specify these provisions in order to remove any objections that may arise, some of which have been related or characterised as observations of a constitutional and legal nature. And the third institute that should certainly be highlighted as an important change in the proposed legal text, therefore, refers to the sanctions themselves. As for sanctions for violations of this law, the circle of sanctions is increasing, and in a way that we can now systematise those four basics or four, so the first of them is to suspend part of the net salary, then... decisions on the cost of the person, the third proposal to relieve the appointed official of public duty and the fourth call is to the elected official to resign from public duty. [[You don't understand.]] As regards the extended circle of sanctions, so under three, four options, it calls on the elected official to resign from public office, they were translated into the report of the committee we read at the plenary session, so that the representatives of the proposer and, in the sense that solutions were proposed legally which would remove all the doubts, or inaccuracy or possible objections, and also constitutionally justified nature, so that this institute would be included in the whole structure of the law and, finally, to select and propose the best possible solutions in the final proposal of this law. Finally, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports this bill, this bill needs to be passed, not only for the sake of harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the European Union, not only for the purpose of meeting the criteria in Chapter 23, but for the best possible way to regulate issues of conflict of interest in our society, and for the very legal text, legal decisions to remove all, all those possibilities of corruptive behaviour that lead to or can lead to such a form of unacceptable behaviour by civil officials, or officials covered by this law. And something else, I mean no less important, really, and the work of the commission and so far, I think that it will be both future and this law should have its additional power of prevention, or preventive action, because when we clearly develop and prescribe legal institutes that work out everything that matters to us when we talk about conflict of interest, and when it is known to everyone, then it is really that preventive role of the regulations and work of the commission that is also important. Therefore, it is not only the body involved in sanctioning and determining whether one of the state officials has violated any provision of the law, but rather the body which will not happen by its actions, by applying the institutes prescribed by this law or by making it impossible for any form of corruptive behaviour of a state official to be prevented, and to remove all risks of corruptive behaviour, which may, which occur in the conduct of the official of the state, regardless of who it was. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community's first reading club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67225	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67226	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a law that will be supported by the HNS and HSU, but we want to point out a few things that we hold to require discussion, to require further reflection and correction of text until the second reading phase. First of all, we want to warn ourselves that this is one of the few laws that has changed in 8 years seven times, and that this proves that we are either spinning in circles, or that it took us eight years to figure out a system of protection for an area called public interest. Now, I'm not inclined to believe that it was because we really didn't know what was right and what was wrong, rather it would have been that all these changes we've made so far, that they were done more or less because it would have created the impression that the system was improving, and we were actually witnessing that nothing big in the application of this model had ever happened. When the matter of preventing conflicts of interest has ever entered the orbit of public conversation and when it is estimated that there is a need to define it by law, it has been said that the conflict of interest of one of the areas where most abuses occur in public space, and that it is precisely the adoption of this law, that is, the lever that will prevent further escalation, i.e. those politicians, or public officials from abuse their position, that they favour privileged information or other actions with private interests. And what's the balance actually in those eight years? How many people really fit, and why? In what way did the committee responsible for monitoring the implementation of this law react in the first place? In several cases, we were able to bear in mind that the commission functioned as an extended body of party policy, in which it does not matter at all what the arguments were like and what evidence they were due to, but who has more votes. That's not good, of course, and that model, unfortunately, remains in this law. The commission will continue to be elected by the ordinary majority of the Croatian Parliament, which means that the party or parties in power without any problems in the commission can install a sufficient number of people who, if the party so decides, will ignore facts and evidence. And is that really what we're interested in? Well, shouldn't logic really be the opposite? To protect the interest of the Croatian Parliament, first of all, as the one who passed this law, protecting the dignity of the Croatian Assembly, where 153 state officials sit, establish a model of the selection of members of the commission in a way that will actually require a higher level of consent, a consensus. Why wouldn't a two-thirds vote in the selection of committee members be a possible way out of this situation? We propose to the promoter to think carefully about this because it will be one of the fuses that will allow the Commission to meet its new standards, henceforth a whole new law, in the best possible way, without any fear or danger that the commission, as it has been several times, will be perceived in public, and perception is a fundamental thing in the performance of public work, as an extended hand of someone's party policy. And secondly, we warn that the Croatian version of the definition of conflict of interest is actually unsettled. In Croatia, we consider the conflict of interest only and exclusively the situation in which public interest is being damaged for the account of the private one. And we forget that it is also possible to harm the public interest from another level of so-called. public interest. So that there is a conflict of public-public that can also cause great damage. What's this about? A year and a half ago or even a little bit more precisely the Commission of Conflict of Interest, a city reported a case that the commission refused to determine that it was not a public and private conflict in this case, according to which it was not competent. And what was that about? In the County Headship at that time, therefore there was still the County Headship, there was a man who was also head of Croatian Waters. Croatian waters were given the government the task of carrying out a public procedure to grant concessions at a very large source of drinking water in Croatia. In the area of a local self-government unit that has its own utility that has been supplying water for 40 years. Therefore, the city that has a municipal company that, under all the regulations of the Law on concessions and all the specific regulations, absolutely meets all the conditions to obtain a concession on the exploitation of drinking water on its own territory. However, the county on whose territory it is located and the city decided to establish a fictitious company it will register overnight for operations between other and exploitation, i.e. water distribution. So then the head of the Croatian Waters as a member of the headship of the county made a decision on the establishment of the company forwarded to the County Assembly which approved it, approved on behalf of the headship the business plan of the company and all the documentation it sent to the Croatian waters, and then as head of the Croatian Waters decided that the concession was actually given to that company and recommended to the Government of the Republic of Croatia exactly that solution. And what it is, rather than a conflict of interest where the local self-government has suffered enormous damage to the interest of a group of people gathered around a fictitious company, regardless of its formal founder is the county. The law on preventing conflicts of interest does not recognise the situation at all. So if, as Minister, you please your city and your end and do everything possible to ensure that all development projects from your hometown are satisfied, and everyone else neglected, you are not the subject of interest under this law. So the question is, which one is it? And what kind of nepotism does the law recognize that it doesn't recognize? We don't think that's good. And while the new law is already being done, while we are already aware that 8 years of experience with the old law has not been enough to establish that the system is working for us to well promote all the situations in which we can find ourselves, how to achieve as much as possible the autonomy of the commission, above all autonomy from politics, because if the promoter has already decided that the Croatian Parliament does not have a direct impact on the work of the commission that some colleagues can interpret as in some way the humiliation of the Croatian Parliament, but on the other hand there are really clear arguments that say that this leads to the depolitisation of this commission. If we really want to and if we really advocate depolitisation, then we raise the threshold to two-thirds and set the two-thirds majority as necessary for the selection of members of that body. Otherwise, no one will be able to convince us that it is actually about the possibility that in the election year before the end of this term in this Croatian Assembly, most of which now makes HDZ with its parties partners actually wants to ensure that the next 4 years there are people in the commission who, with a much, much higher level of authority, will actually not actually be treated as criminally trying to use every detail for the story of conflict of interest. Of course this is condicional, and it'll turn out to be insulting or not insulting, but it's a model we need to be aware of if we want to talk about open cards. Therefore, no invetivities are compared to but we kill all those who have reserves according to this model by just raising the standard to a two-thirds majority in the selection of members of the commission. If that's not what you're afraid of, if you're not afraid of the people that both the majority and minorities will agree on, we're on the right track to really say that we're going to be able to prevent a decent number of situations of conflict of interest. This body, the commission, and the law that enables, or frames its work, should not be regarded as a court, nor as a persecution body, nor as a body of persecution, but above all as a body of prevention, as a system of prevention that is about to set standards, rules that will prevent situations that we recognise as conflicts of interest. Disabling the situation where public money is transferred into private pockets or where public money is transferred from the state budget or from the state funds to other public budgets and funds but at another level where it controls someone else's situation. Furthermore, what is meant by a provision under which an official, one year after leaving his post, must not establish a working relationship in any legal person who has any traffic or business relationship with a public authority in which he has served his public duty? Imagine a situation where the secretary of the Association of Persons with Disabilities precisely because he is respected as a man who advocates the values of civil society, as a man who advocates the promotion of the right of a person with disabilities to be called by someone to participate as a candidate, say the Deputy Mayor. And that list goes by. He's the deputy mayor and he's agreed with his association, the next four years I'm leaving the association because I think I can give more to the whole community. At the time when his term of office ceases, he must not return to his association for another year, if the association has one single June of transfers from the city budget. Is it fair in a situation where we know that all local associations actually stand at the disposition of the community and in return receive funds from budgets that are never God knows how big? In any case, such a provision, which does not distinguish business from a non-business system or a private and business sector from a non-profit sector, can make a confusion in such a way that we do not get quality people from the civil sector on public duty. I don't think that's a good approach, and that's all we're going to do, not make politics rich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67227	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67228	Well, here's a distinguished colleague pointed out on several occasions that actually the commission was an extended hand of the party and so on, which definitely offended a number of prominent people such as Mr Vlaho Bogisic, Mr Antun Zorislav Petrovic, Mrs Jadranka Kolarevic and his colleague Miljenko Doric, who voted yesterday for a unanimous decision by the Commission on the punishment of SDP MPs, which is why so much noise has been raised today. Therefore, I think the commission is doing well, that there are good people, another thing that a member of the SDP committee is not coming is another thing. But I think that in law, if they've studied everything that he's done, so the authors, Mr. Radimir Cacic, I think they've stopped it for the future, I think they've done an extraordinary job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67229	Club HSS Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67230	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretaries of the ministry with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Citizens expect fair, honesty, responsibility, impartiality, respect for the law, and most importantly, are expected to serve public interest. So, in the interest of everyone and not just their own or in the interest of one who can pay well the service done. And what can citizens read when they open the daily press and see when they sit in front of small screens? I can conclude that the Croatian country has narrowed down in corruption. The result is a great mistrust of citizens in public institutions as well as politics as a profession. Nevertheless, at the HSS Club, we believe that Croatian citizens will recognise the determined fee that stands for both the activities already undertaken in countering corruption, and this legislative proposal, which aims to further strengthen mechanisms to combat this great evil and increase transparency, i.e. to increase the system of control of those acting in public duty. This relates first of all to the role of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, or to its depoliticalisation, which is reflected in the new way of selecting its members who must be a non-partisan person, and what is proposed by this legislative proposal. This proposal defines it as an independent state body with specific financial resources. Conflicts between private interests and the duties of public administration officials should not be settled in an appropriate way for the result may have corruption, which is one of the main reasons for the rise of citizens' mistrust in public institutions. It is therefore important to prevent distortion of the integrity of officials and consequently and decisions taken, as a conflict of interest not resolved can also lead to abuse of the situation. It is therefore of paramount importance to regulate a system which will at first recognise the potential risk as well as to enable the resolution of potential conflict and interest while strengthening the integrity of officials and setting up an effective control mechanism, and also to prescribe concrete sanctions. Thus, among other things, the law in the share of a business entity in which the official has a share in ownership, and with which the body in which the official behaves in a business relationship reduces to the present 20 to 0.5%. In particular, it is necessary to identify possible situations of conflict of interest in which the official may be located after the conduct of the public office has ceased, and to state and establish restrictions. Thus, officials who have ceased their duties one year after the termination of their duties may not accept the appointment and selection or enter into a contract with a legal person who, during the conduct of the official, was in a business relationship or, at the time of the appointment of the election or the conclusion of the contract under the circumstances, intends to enter into a business relationship with the body in which he acted. Preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties is one of the priority areas and in the fight against corruption, and the bill we are discussing today will advance the existing system. In particular, through the strengthening of the independent position of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest and more precise regulation of a series of necessary instruments, the introduction of a system supervised and verification of public officials' property cards, as well as strict sanctions for non-compliance with the rules. In this respect, the obligation of the competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia as well as the obligations of banking institutions and business entities shall be determined to verify, for the purpose of verifying, at the request of the Commission, the data requested. During the implementation of the law so far, it has been observed that it is necessary to regulate certain areas more precisely, for example, the law should cover the management of civil servants as well as the presidents and members of the management of state-owned companies, and it is necessary to establish an efficient system of verification of the property of officials and the sanctioning system as this proposal does. In this regard, we also welcome the improvement of the sanctions system that the commission may impose in the event of non-compliance with the law, which provide for the suspension of the payment of part of the net monthly salary, the public publication of the commission's decision on the cost of a person, a proposal for a discharge from public duty and an invitation from the elected official to resign on public duty. By ratifying the United Nations Convention against Corruption, the Republic of Croatia has decided to strengthen measures to combat corruption more effectively and promote honesty, accountability and proper management of public affairs and state property and is obliged to establish and strengthen systems that promote transparency and prevent conflicts of interest. It is also obliged to introduce measures on the basis of which civil servants will have to make statements to the relevant authorities, inter alia, on their additional activities, employment, investments, assets and significant gifts or benefits that could lead to a conflict of interest in their service. In this direction, the adoption of the Anti-corruption Strategy highlighted the improvement of the legal and institutional framework for the effective and systematic prevention of corruption, the affirmation of zero tolerance access to corruption, the strengthening of integrity, accountability and transparency in the work of the government authorities, and the associated strengthening of citizens' trust in state institutions, as well as the creation of a precondition for preventing corruption at all levels. Unfortunately, we will hardly be able to remove the causes of these adverse phenomena by this or some other legal regulations forever because they are in a human nature that tends to bow down before the attack to benefit from its position, but in this way we are in advance narrowing down the area for corruption and thus affecting the reduction of its negative consequences on the public interest or the general good. We also suggest that certain remarks given through the first reading be considered and that the proposer tries to see how to keep it from the old law, perhaps as a measure of warning, because the warning is nevertheless the first stage in the case where someone is asking, from whom it is sought, does not simply bear this indication, is practical to warn that someone has not above all carried out a certain administrative obligation, and after that, it is clear that access to punishment or more stringent measures. And also to be seen in this proposal as a commission president's ingenuity or better said that all members of the commission's authority may be seen in the Office of the Commission, and not only the President, because I don't know whether each of the members of the commission will have their own office or whether it is normal for each member of the commission to have the opportunity to request certain information or a particular service in the Office of the Commission. I believe that these remarks, mentioned in the debate, will be taken into account and will be respected and, for all these reasons, we believe that this law will contribute not only to the improvement of the mechanisms for the control of corruption but also to the greater confidence of citizens in public institutions and, therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party club will support this proposal in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67231	Thank you. SDSS Club, Mr. Representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67232	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. I will name the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party as we consider it a very important legal text. So he's being brought in, he's very interesting to debate and he's being brought in today, I'm free to say in the atmosphere of general disbelieving, mistrust in state officials, and that's why we appreciate the efforts that the proposing representatives have made, so the ministries have tried to make the concept of such a legal text because in a situation like this, in an atmosphere I said about, it's very difficult to reconcile different views on things, different desires and different positions. It is clear to all of us in the Parliament that transparency in the work of government officials, transparency in the acquisition of their assets, needs to be strengthened. We also fully understand that all of this is primarily our legitimacy for the EU integration processes that are ahead of us, and I think that's the thing we need to do. What's the subject of my debate right now is the difference in some concept or approach to how this thing is regulated by this legal text. In fact, we have some kind of approach that we need here to institutionalise a body that would deal with the over-determining and finding there's a conflict of interest in the work of the state's attorneys. When I say that, that's where I put the dot. So these two things are basically the premises of this law for us. I have the impression that the proposer is going further with his concept and then here in the text, I am intertwining the powers of some other bodies of public authority and public repression, and at the same time these powers and powers are already regulated by our existing legal system. The question is then imposed logically whether with this, so the question is well-intentioned, is that with this here we are then creating some kind of parallel institution of control, public control of work, position and property of government officials. Whether or not we have struck the right measure between the right form between the powers of the institutions etc. I think this debate in this first reading should say that. I will just try to analyze a few of the articles in this text and give my opinion on it. In the introduction of Article 1 and I think of Article 5, one definition is given in itself that is good. So, the purpose of this law is to prevent private influences on decision-making in the conduct of public duties, among other things, which is of course fine. But in future times, we must be prepared for the fact that we will be, that some things and some relationships will happen in a world called the world so-called. lobbying, and the essence of lobbying is precisely an influence on public authority, on making or changing some decisions in the interests of some individuals, some corporations, etc. etc. So this is what I'm saying as a sort of prevention of everything. In particular, in Article 5, the definition set out in paragraph 1 where officials in the exercise of public duties are said to have to act with honor, fair, conscientious, responsible, impartially, etc. etc. I think this definition is unnecessary here. I think that officials, especially parliamentary deputies, know that they have to perform this function without this decadent statement in this position, and I think that they have said it in their oath and in public. Therefore, I think this is a thing that should not be standing here but should therefore be defined in paragraph 3 of the same article as the category of personal breakthrough. Let’s try to define it a little more concretely because this category of personal breakthrough appears and passes as some kind of reference size for some relations later in the law itself. Article 13 refers to payments, costs, etc. General. In any case, besides travel, other costs should be defined to make things clear, so that there are no costs to be incurred under those other costs, which could cause someone to be in conflict with their interests tomorrow. Otherwise, it's our position that every job, especially a responsible job, should be paid. So, you have to pay for the thing. So, if we want someone to run a quality business to answer for it, it's even retroactively entering into the affairs of various management functions, ways to perform and to pursue criminal responsibilities, criminal responsibilities. Then it's important for people to be right about things like that and pay for it. Article 17 discusses the famous stakes in business entities, so we brought the matter down to 0.5 percent to say that it might be more benign than what we had so far. We're either letting these business arrangements happen or ban them. We don't think it's a good option for the whole thing to depend on the opinion of the committee, on the opinion and instructions of the commission, so if the commission gives the opinion positively and the instructions. In a way that some instructions for this kind of transaction then there is no conflict of interest, and if not, there is a conflict of interest. It is also defined in paragraph 6 that such transactions concluded without a previous opinion of the Commission are void or harmful. I don't think that's good, and I think that committee is getting into things that aren't really competent. Because we can't expect five people to deal with the mass of these things that the living market and various situations will bring. And that simply this thing needs to be set up in a completely different way. In Article 18, paragraph 1 of the definition, officials shall without delay inform the Commission of any pressures and inappropriate influences which they are exposed to in the conduct of public duties. The question arises whether we think that officials, especially parliamentary deputies, do not know what to do when they feel and feel and experience some kind of pressure. Don't we think we know who they're supposed to call? And do we think that there are no institutions but institutions relevant for solving these things? And the question is also raised that what actions should happen and what effect should be caused by all this, or what actions the commission should take in that case, to forward to the State's Attorney's office. So it's a lot simpler. And I think it's more appropriate for the government officials to do it the way they've done before. So, what I'm saying is that this thing that's here I don't think should stand in this law that way. Article 29 speaks of rules, who adopts rules on the establishment, that is, the procedure before the commission, and gives authority to the Commission itself to settle this matter only to its rules. I don't think that's good. It's even spoken to most of the voices, etc. I don't think that's good. I think that regulation should be adopted as a basic organisational scheme by the competent ministry. I think it should be because it's kind of a logical thing. Moreover, in paragraph 4, the performance of other tasks should define what other tasks the commission deals with other than what we have said here purely because of some clear relations so that there is no confusion. Article 32 speaks of conditions for the selection of presidents and members of the committee, and it is said that there is experience in the field of fighting corruption and preventing conflicts of interest that immediately points to the fact that the functions that have been dealt with so far, that is to say, in the field of combating corruption and the prevention of conflicts of interest, will be preferred here, in particular, by the Ministry of the Interior, USKOK and so on. etc. At the same time, Article 5 states that the chairman of the commission should have high moral qualities and ethical standards of conduct. There is a question here that is the definition of high moral qualities so that we can evaluate someone by definition of high moral qualities, and then we as Parliamentarians can ask whether then these people are here to exercise control of existing facts or whether they are there by their own qualities to be morally vertical to all of us. I think that's the thing that shouldn't be standing here. Article 38 empowers the Commission to establish the facts and on the basis of both its own actions and the operation of certain other public authorities, such competent authority in the Republic of Croatia of banking and other financial institutions shall be obliged, without delay, to submit the requested notifications, etc., the question is where is the category of protected classified information and what is the matter. So we're not going into the field of the threat to the protection of the privacy of personal data. The sanctions are the most interesting thing, paragraph 1. says the suspension of the salary of part of the net monthly salary, and paragraph 3 says the sanctions are suspended, part of the official's net salary cannot last longer than 12 months. I'm saying that she shouldn't be circumstantial, she should be one-time, and there's no logic in stopping someone, giving a warrant for the payout of part of the salary, it can only be a court verdict, and it can only be based on her own consent in some kind of bank transactions. Also in Article 42, I think that calling as a sanction to a elected official is a call for resignation is not an inappropriate matter, it is not a commission to assess whether someone should resign or not. It's voters, it's public, it's a party and some other factors in any case that commission doesn't have such a task to do so. Article 43 of the Sanctions Decision shall become enforceable and shall be charged as an executive document, to be charged to the cashier. I don't think that's too well-founded, because the pay is a very protected category, it can be affected again by just a judicial verdict that gets a later executive title and can only be affected by the consent of the user, or by the consent of the pay user. Finally, I would say that in these criminal provisions, that is to say, infringement provisions should also define the responsibility of officials who record certain changes in the property card. Why? Because it happened that officials did this job very casually, made the wrong data, the journalists used it, against certain officials in a very awkward context, made it a story that was, had a slightly wider effect, and none of those people who made such mistakes were responding. My conclusion is that, out of great desire to correct the current ineffectiveness of the Committee of Conflict of Interest, we create a new institution, but in any case, it is a good thing, a positive one, but I think we should talk about it in another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67233	Thank you. At 17 and 31, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Proposer, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club that we are committed to passing a new law and to settle the issue of conflict of interest in the Republic of Croatia in a better and different way. The second question is, is this bill secure? But let's take the turn. Since the law changes the definition of conflict of interest, and narrows down the concept of conflict of interest, it should be considered in a narrow circle. The current law says conflict of interest is a situation in which the private interests of officials are contrary to public interest or when private interests affect or may affect the impartiality of officials in the exercise of public duty. Now you can erase this and put on a reasonable doubt. It's already a judicial term, not a moral term. So the definition of conflict of interest is narrowed down, and I think no matter how we define in the Law of Conflict of Interest, so avoiding conflicts of interest is a requirement of citizens, so to us citizens is to avoid conflicts of interest, while the official is acting in public duty because he has been given a mandate to take care of their interests and their account, in joint affairs, and that while doing so, he must forget his own interest in this business or in the interest and the work of the persons involved with him. But here we go back a little bit to history and the institute, the legal institute of conflict of interest and the history of the commission. So the truth has changed six times in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, so solutions are sought depending on the political climate in the Republic of Croatia, not on the interests of citizens, but on the power or relationship of forces in the Croatian Parliament. Let's remember, so the commission first ended infamously, didn't even start working. The second commission tried to work by creating some standards related to conflict of interest. It's a commission from 2003 to 2007. And when creating standards of conflict of interest, the democratic standards of the institute of conflict of interest came into the situation to consider without the environment and to violate the issue of conflict of interest of the Prime Minister in the HDZ and HDZ president's mandate, the derogation of the influence and importance of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest began. In the protection of the prime minister and HDZ president, so the prime minister of the government, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the president of the HDZ, the entire government and individual ministers were put in place. I have here, I took out the memos, so let's say the personal question of the commission, so on the personal responsibility of one man, no matter what function he performs: "Can you tell us how you acquired the watches and when you acquired them?", the government of the Republic of Croatia is ambushing and saying, "We can't tell you because it's unclear law." We can't tell you because it's unclear law. You want me to read that whole answer? We won't. He's here. And then individual ministers and individual members of the HDZ leadership to mock that institution's conflict of interest, but only the commission. So we were doing one job not in private, so they couldn't make fun of us. We got our homework, so we did the right thing. They ask if the commission will question if one of the MPs reported in the property card facelifting? The second, same HDZ member, writes in writing if you have assessed the tooth from another representative. Well, when that's how we write to the government and the Prime Minister again, and then a minister calls and says it's not clear to the government what it means to move property. The minister, or then he was president of the government's office, is now a member of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is not clear to him what can be placed and published as mobile property. Did the watches fall into movable property or just belong to Renault 8 from a few years ago? So, colleagues and colleagues by looking for a solution through the Law to prevent conflicts of interest, we only do an alibi. Therefore, a conflict of interest cannot be resolved only by one body, even if there is a commission with enormous powers. Well, the greater authority has the State's Attorney's Office and the courts. So, is the category of conflict of interest a crime? It's not. It's sometimes, a conflict of interest sometimes, and you don't have to be aware that you've entered a conflict of interest. Of course, there is a conflict of interest in various forms, various motives, and they are not always dishonest. That's what we have to say. The conflict of interest which is dishonest is always either a crime or a crime. But the incompatibility of duty without any real interest is no conflict of interest. You just have to warn the man that he can't be in two places at once. There's nothing there. Now let's finish those watches. However, what happens in that term? The HDZ notes that the commission from the point of view of moral influence in the public is immodestly saying it plays a significant role and makes a decision and changes the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Which was the original idea. The original, fundamental idea was that Parliament would receive a working body that would in the name of the Parliament control all those responsible to the Parliament and so... in the Republic of Croatia each representative body controls, oversees the executive power of both the Government and the Headship, etc. So the original idea was to form a working body and get that working body an opposition. Because it's the sense of supervision, and it's not punishment. Why? Because it was noted that the rule of law without discussion brought and voted what came from the government. Not going in now that government. So the point was to control the executive authority and officials from representatives who received a mandate from Croatian citizens. And then HDZ noticed that and he said no, we're going to change the law now. We think the influence was too strong because you put our prime minister on the agenda. They changed and they said there was no opposition, no opposition would run the commission, Leko was biased. He was biased because he questioned both himself and others. I'm sorry to personalize the matter. And what happened happened. Now, I'm asking you, given the bill and the solution that we now have, whether it's logical to expect from people whose choice depends on the ruling majority, so they're dependent on the ruling choice to make an independent opinion. So is it somewhere that someone who's addicted, so don't tell me people are so brave and they're always fighters and as heroes say. People are people, they need to be put in a position so they can react properly. We didn't put them on, we didn't put them on. Why, my colleague called me not to attend committee meetings. Right, and now I'm going to tell you why. I think it's in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to examine or put it on the agenda as soon as word came out that HDZ got this BMW, it should've put it on the agenda right away and asked my people what you did because it's written, and you don't know who got it. It had to bet. I just think it's an interest. When, as it is called, the secretary of state at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, etc., Livakovic, has been asked in public whether he is in crime and the commission is not responding, he does not say anything about it, simply goes beyond that. But imagine now, now it's happening that the Deputy Prime Minister defends himself to be the owner of a company that owns a monopoly in the Republic of Croatia and is still propagating, and I'm sure you know I concluded 150 contracts in the last year from the post of Deputy Prime Minister. And he says I passed it on. Please, it's not a conflict of interest form. Therefore, it is not intended to describe a conflict of interest as criminal offences are described but to be assessed by an honest body of parliamentary representatives with confidence. And of that, there must be neither sanctions nor fines of 10 thousand kunas, but it must be said to the public that we should pay attention to this because a man, an official, has found himself in circumstances that he has to resolve. We've got to keep an eye on that. Therefore, if we want to develop democracy, then we must develop all institutions in democracy, primarily the Parliament. The original legitimacy for the control of the executive authority is on parliamentary representatives. That is what the Constitution says that the parliament is obliged to oversee the work of the government, ministers and other elected and responsible Croatian Parliament. That's what the Constitution says. Now whether or not we're going to do it is another question. And the solutions that are now being offered in this law that is to say the alibi in front of the EU clearly we must bring but not in a way that complicates even more conflict of interest and that we now ensure by choosing how the whole mandate is proposed to remain the team that the current majority has chosen. It's not simply fair to the Institute of Conflict of Interest. Because it is obvious that now the ruling intention is to secure the entire mandate of the team they will choose, which you will choose. Because that's how it's supposed to be. Well, then let's not say that conflict of interest is hard to tell. And it's a conflict of interest. So we're not interested in anything at all, we're just interested in our position. Of course, there is still, for example, the responsibility of the officials to do or not to do his family’s work even in the case, and that he does not need to know what situation he is in. That's not acceptable. Therefore, developments related to HDZ and the HDZ government of their president have significantly affected the solutions offered. With such an approach to things, we will be able to change the law every day and try to reach what is actually happening by law. But it's not a systematic approach. And in the end, my light's on, he's warning me. So we are in the SDP club to pass a new law, to settle conflict of interest in a valid way, to choose if it must already be a commission we think there should be a mixed composition, but to be chosen by the two-thirds majority, to seek the best solution for the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67235	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing the subject of honesty and morals of all of us, at all levels that we have at certain responsibilities received trust and answer to citizens for our decision-making and behaviour. If I'd written the bill, I'd have been a lot sharper than the proposer. I want to believe that in 20 years, Croatia will need neither law nor commission, and that we will not have to speak and conduct public debates on conflicts of interest every week, but in order to come to this, I believe that at this point, Croatia needs even more severe law and even more stringent powers, greater and stronger powers of the commission that will act not only when there is a conflict of interest, but when there is a possibility or danger of someone being in conflict of interest and therefore I suggest that you return that provision from the existing law on the possibility of entering into conflict of interest. Immediately and briefly, given the powers of the commission, and I would give them even more power, a two-thirds election in the Parliament, two-thirds. I have learned from the debates so far, especially fellow Caine, that many are for the law, for sanctioning conflicts of interest, for strong measures but not for us. We're kind of trying to be very radical and show everything, but please don't touch us. Along the way to mention that other regulations open up a new area of one conflict of interest that cannot be the subject of this law, which is when we chose to be independent experts in the supervisory boards of state companies, and then appointed and selected people from competing companies, banks, financial institutions that entered there and went from quite another intention. They may also be in conflict of interest but they are not officials, so this law does not cover them. But think about it, I know you understand what I'm talking about. They are not forbidden any behavior, nor are they taking over these companies, nor are they taking over jobs, revealing business secrets, etc. So, we opened a new area of conflict of interest in Croatia when we opened the supervisory boards of state firms, mostly all or minority, with such a solution, and only time will show how much danger there is. With regard to the solution contained in the law, Articles 15, 16 and 17, which speak of those officials who share in enterprises, you inherit the model that they must pass it on to some commissioner and that any engagement of such companies will have to be declared by the Commission. I don't believe in it at all, and I don't think that any advantage of any ownership or decision, to any commissioner of the law firm, is necessary. And keep it 100%, 80% or total property. I don't care. The bottom line is that those who want to deal with entrepreneurship and politics have freedom. I can do anything, but I can't deal with the state in the public sector. A ban on an absolute ban on the conclusion of any business relationship between the company in which the official has anything to do with the public and state sectors. What is the motive for someone wishing to have 3, 4 companies big, small or medium-sized that they want to be an official and they still complain that we are restricting their freedom of entrepreneurship. So who forced him into politics? What did someone's hands break to be an official? It's his own decision, it's his choice. Yeah, but you can't do business with the state. The only effective means, the only clean means needed for the entire public sector, so local and regional self-government, of course, I'm saying you understand me. I know you won't accept it, not you, but those who vote formally. But then Article 16 that says that those who have more than 0.5 cannot establish business relations with a public authority in which the official is acting. So this one can't... Fire extinguishers to the government, but they can take care of hospitals or police. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The minister in the government has a company, transferred it to the commissioner, can't market for himself, but he dares the other minister, the other speaker. Please kindly, don't let anyone. Which means to his resor, where he's acting. He acts in the ministry, and the contract is concluded by a public enterprise or a public institution. This is the solution we've had so far, and that's why we've had so many problems with conflict of interest and abuse of that fact. You can fix this. I know that my radical proposal can't deal with the state won't last that long until we're obviously back on fire on someone else. And another conflict of interest. It's not just a conflict of interest in money, in business, in contract. The minister has the power to pass regulations, ministers propose laws, so isn't it the greatest conflict of interest that some sublegal regulations allow the minister to please the company he has transferred to the commissioner, around standards, control, supervision, protection. These are people, therefore, not only who decide at government meetings, they adopt sublegal implementing rules where they can also be very comfortable with themselves, their own company, within the family, or beyond that. This bill of law and the existing law of it has no dictionary. And that's why it's impossible to solve, and that's why the only solution is if you want to be one and the other, you can't deal with the public sector. You can't. These commissioners will not work counter-interest for the owner of whoever he is. That if he couldn't give him a warrant he could only believe that everyone would be hooked up to... And so many machines don't have them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, in article 14 around sanctions, the government came halfway to the proposal recently rejected by the Parliament. We have all realized that warnings and fines do not yield results and now it is proposed that the commission can give a proposal to resolve the person who has been appointed or publicly called to resign from the one who has been elected. Not long ago, I proposed amendments to the Law on Election of Representatives, I hear some crying that now the Parliament has been decorated because we would be sanctioned, amendments to the Law on Government, mayors and mayors that when it was established and after the appeal proceedings before the administrative court confirmed conflict of interest to end the term of office. Someone who has entered a conflict of interest, passed the commission procedure, the Administrative Court has confirmed the commission's decision under our regulations has the right to remain in office. I suggested then, no, by the law of termination. In her opinion, the government said it couldn't be the subject of those laws to an attorney that you proposed but was the subject of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, you can imagine, of course not. Will most accept these two solutions? Some say it's anti-constitutional. It would be clear if the Government now proposed under these powers of the Commission and after the words of the Administrative Court to all officials who were found in a conflict of interest ceases the term of office by force of the law, item. This more and this is extremely important to remain in the law, Article 43(4), which says: if the commission, in accordance with the nature of the conflict of interest, assess that the official can fix it, correct the failure, it will give him an 8-day deadline if I am not mistaken, to come out of the conflict of interest. It's that prevention and possibility when someone unconscious, not knowing what they're doing. And control yourself, Vice President, just one sentence, Articles 47 and 48, first says that a new commission must be elected within 30 days of the entry into force of the law, but Article 48 states that a new rule should be adopted within 30 days of the date of entry into force. Not within 30 days of each other, if you understand me. First, the commission, then the rulebook, not the old commission, brings the new commission a rulebook. That wouldn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67237	Thank you. We have one replica. Comrade Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67238	Comrade Lesar, that these provisions on transfer to the owner of ownership, management rights are the most ordinary alibi, nothing but any provision on any percentage of ownership in companies operating with the Government. Because why, the FIMI media wasn't owned by any minister, no politician, in one private ownership of a fifth person, and yet through the FIMI media, there was an apparent first conflict of interest, I won't talk about crime, it's a matter of justice. But an apparent conflict of interest where it is a public interest for the state to operate fairly, to safeguard the resources of the state budget and the private interest of the Prime Minister and his associates to come to the money, conflicted. He's overcome his private interest. Neither was property required in any percentage, nor was it necessary to pass it on to any commissioner to avoid this. Therefore, we can pass in this law and a provision like this which, therefore, a company in which an official, some official has any percentage, two shares, it must not deal with the state. So the thing is, the official wants to deal with stockholders, whether he owns it or he's going to be a politician. But even if we take such a strict measure, it can't save us from the FIMI media, it can't save us, and that's why these are all alibis. The official will tell me what I have to do with it, so I don't have property in the FIMI media like they don't have and like they didn't have. But that's what they're interested in in, and the robbery didn't stop them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67239	Replication response, colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67240	Mr. Stazic, I agree with you, this transfer of ownership rights or how to call it the Commissioner's alibi until now and on this proposal, and that is why I don't think he's really going to solve anything. If I'm going to end up with that, someone thinks that tightening and increasing the powers of the commission is against the constitution, and admits that we have a problem in Croatia with a conflict of interest in this form. Then let's install that part of the provision into the Penal Code if we're afraid of sanctions from this commission. But indeed, in order to gain all citizens and parliament regardless of the challenge, trust in this commission must be chosen by a two-thirds majority. It's one of the technical but extremely strong political conditions that this can then work. And as for the termination of the term of office for conflict of interest. Sooner or later, it's gonna have to fit into the law. There is no more effective means when someone who has come on duty is sanctioned by the end of the term of office because at some point he has forgotten the limit of public and private interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67241	Dear colleague Grbic, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67242	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing a bill on preventing conflicts of interest that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in a regular parliamentary procedure. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest was passed in 2003 and has been amended six times and complemented. The 2008 anti-corruption strategy clearly identified the objective of improving the legal and institutional framework for the fight against corruption, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to bring the legal and institutional framework against corruption into line with European Union standards. It is no wonder, then, that the pedestal has decided to propose a whole new law. The current implementation of the law has made it clear that other persons who carry out their duties under corruption risks such as government officials should also be subject to the law, regulate restrictions on officials after the end of their duties and strengthen the independence of the commission. In this respect, this proposal strengthens the independence of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, regulates instruments to prevent conflicts of interest, introduces an asset control system, proposes stricter sanctions for non-compliance with the rules, and all in order to ensure an early identification of the risk of conflicts of interest and the resolution of conflicts of interest, and strengthens the integrity of officials. The proposal lists the officials of law enforcement bonds. In this connection, it should be pointed out that the presidents and members of the management of companies owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government should also be subject to the provisions of this law. The proposal regulates the prohibited activities of officials, regulates the obligation to submit reports on the property, sources and means of acquisition of property, receiving gifts, fees and other activities of membership to administrative authorities and supervisory committees. The paper proposed by the applicant is an obligation for the official not to enter into a working relationship with other legal persons after one year of termination and to arrange for legal persons. In a new and different way, the legal position of the commission, the mandate of the members of the commission, the competence, the obligation to report to the commission on their work is prescribed. A different definition of the commission's election removes possible forms of political influence on the commission. The commission shall be governed as an independent body with clearly defined competences, and members of the commission shall professionally carry out the tasks. The law also regulates a system of sanctions that the commission can impose for law enforcement. In view of the opinions expressed, I am of the opinion that this proposal significantly improves the prevention of conflicts of interest, which will certainly reflect the effectiveness of action in countering corruption, which is why I will support the draft law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, as well as all those quality remarks and proposals presented in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67243	Thank you very much, colleague Grbic. It is up to the esteemed colleague, Kronoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of Assistant, Secretary of State. Well, here's the first reading of the law, I guess, and it's made so there's a lot to talk about. There's a lot of things, a lot of new things that aren't in the existing law. The first change, the big change is actually about the members of the commission. There will be no more MPs, but professionals will come. So, five professional members. There won't be any outsiders that are newspapers. And I assume that this commission here with an increased number of people will do whatever is required of it. And you're asking for a lot more than you're asking for right now. Namely, if we're talking about property cards to be checked, then it's a huge job. Today's commission employees are also doing a very big job. Namely, they did it if anyone was on any other boards, whether or not, there was a warning. It took finally of those several thousand cards and to see if they'd all sent it, whether or not it was punishment for those who had been warned, so they didn't do it. So, there was, does anyone else receive any compensation? Also check all 3, 4000 cards which is well done, neatly done and ultimately the situation is now etc. But the problem is, I think there's going to be a very long problem. I mean, you should watch how much the whole IRS thing overlaps with the DORH. That's where we need to figure out who's doing things so we don't duplicate. Namely, the current commission when it comes across a case that's this interesting for the DORH then delivers it to the DORH. Clearly, you're looking for an indication, you're looking for a statement from those who were anonymous, either by the name and by the name of the defendant, and a series of things have been clarified here. In spite of the fact that the law is present here, many people do not know why it applies. We have a case to say that the man didn't report that he was inactive in a company. It's some kind of inactive company founded by who knows when. And now normally he got a warning, because he should have known, and maybe he didn't think there was anything he didn't do at all. And the special story here today began, today the whole committee story is spinning, whether the commission is working under, I don't know the influence to say it to the ruling or not. I think that's the very low thing to say, given the people who are there. It is known that three members of the opposition commission, three members are from the position, so three, three, and there are five other prominent people with a name and a last name, I must repeat such as Mr Vlaho Bogisic, such as Mr Antun Zorislav Petrovic, such as Mrs Jadranka Kolarevic from here is a consumer society, so these are all people who would not give their name and name to be managed by someone. And what's interesting is, let's say that the SDP that attacked the committee of its elected member today doesn't send either he's not coming, or in some way I don't know doesn't participate in the work of the commission any way we want to, and at the same time they know everything that's going on on on the committees, the commission is doing this or that. Yesterday's decision, which is controversial and spinning today throughout the media and everywhere, was taken by the commission unanimously, voted for by Mr Doric of the HNS, Antun Zorislav Petrovic, and therefore all the other members who were present, so there is nothing controversial about it, but it is controversial if we touch a member of the SDP who will defend him in all possible ways, and he deserves the punishment, in all possible ways, and then, as well as Mr Vinkovic, throw him out of the party because he will understand what actually happened and that he is guilty. Okay, it's the right of every political party to defend its people, and I really don't blame it, but I resent this to actually be accused of both the board and the commission, etc., that they don't know manipulating something that's definitely false. What's extremely important here is to prevent a real conflict of interest. We had an anthological conflict of interest studying, I had opportunities, here I was in the investigation committee for Radiir Cacic, we had opportunities to study what a conflict of interest was. If one minister assigns his companies jobs for 400 million kuna, if the contracts here are, say, two contracts, one contract with the clause is the key in hand, the same day issued, the same contract signed and the other contract is without the clause key in hand, in the end clearly added a few million, I'm talking about the POS building in Vukovar, I'm not speaking in general. If, for example, Coning gets jobs for 7 million kuna for renovations, and anex another 10 million kuna jobs, from the same minister and so a number of things, a series of robberies made by contracts, contracts deposited, contracts sent to the State's Attorney's office, I believe that someone's going to make an effort there, not only to extract the findings of the state audit, but to look at everything in those annexes, and then we'll see how it should be prevented. Because it's interesting with Coning's company how they tried to avoid conflict of interest. Namely Coning Alpha, so that basic company is owned by Radimir Cacic and his wife. All the other companies don't mention Chuck anymore. All other companies created by Con Delta, Con Gamma, Coning Engineering, etc., so there are a series, the majority owner is Coning Alpha. There's no mention of him anymore. And as interesting as it is, he even acted on this one, according to this one, he handed it over to the attorney general, but by the same year at the end of the year, the companies were brought back to him, clearly for the division of dividends, whether or not, he was accidentally getting away with something. So it's such manipulation, abuse in all kinds of ways, and it's good to actually follow a little bit so that it never happens again. Because assigning jobs to yourself, let's say to our company that's here without a building permit of POS apartments in Spain. Coning was working I don't know three buildings there, building license was issued three months later. So we have all the data, we have all the papers. So that I think is the greatest abuse that has ever been in Croatia as far as this is concerned. Okay. It will be avoided, because it will no longer be repeated, it is good to limit that all those who own a certain percentage to put it under the bat, that it must be reported, it is difficult to avoid that not one company in which one has perhaps no share will participate. The problem is, I don't know about islands. On the islands, I don't know, the chief may be related to the only firms on the islands, construction, I don't know anything else. There will be problems, but if you put under the control of the commission, then you can control it because it's much more expensive if you call a company that's on your shore somewhere and someone's gonna pull the machine back to the island, I think that's the same problem. So with a lot of understanding everything can finally be done. There's a number of things here, they're very, very sharp sentences. I'm not sure how we're going to solve this by asking someone to move out of the position they've been elected to. Namely, the commission can call on who it is that voters have chosen a mayor, mayor or something like that, I'm not sure it's going to work, it's going to take a little more thought and talk about it. But the intention of the commission, the intention was certainly to sharpen the maximum to prevent corruption, because being in conflict of interest does not necessarily mean corruption, it is here and written and it is really true, we have seen in countless examples that often and for other reasons it was this conflict of interest, and it is good that this law is actually going. We've also studied a series of ways other countries do it. Everyone, no patterns, everyone works in their own way, someone, somewhere, there's a commission connected to both the ministry and the like, so there's various ways and funding of the commission. I believe that this will be good, I believe that here with strengthening and staffing the commission will be able to do a lot of this, but clearly with good cooperation with all those clearly through the OSCE that is expected most, best control and with good cooperation and the Ministry of Finance and all other services, it will be much harder to engage someone in crime if they know that they will be very easily monitored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67245	Thank you very much. We have three reports of replicas. First of all, my colleague Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Markovanovic, my rare arrival at the committee sessions certainly did not distract you or prevent you from opening cases, such as BMW procurement, one or the other, anyway. He didn't bother you to open the case if Minister Kalmeta knew about his driver's behaviour, and thus significantly compromised the general social interest. It did not bother you to open the questions of Livaković and his monitoring of the work of Croatian roads as much as he was in conflict of interest or not. It was not the freshest example that bothered you to open the question of former Minister Shuker and his departure by car to another country with, and that by, the taxpayer's car. Do you think citizens don't recognize it as a conflict of interest or at least as possible? So my absence really didn't interfere with the work of the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest. I'll come whenever I can, but I'm warning there's no point in dealing with technical questions if all the cards are here. It's the easiest thing to run and that's what the service does. At least I know how it works. It's forms, but the issue of conflict of interest I assure you that doubt is, let's say, what I've stated, and the last one is really why the finance minister drove a taxpayer's car and went to another country when he does, he had an official car, he has his own car. Just give me the answer. Just answer me that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67247	Answer, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67248	Well, here's my esteemed colleague, Leco, I'm personally sorry that you're not, because obviously your presence would benefit from the work of the committee because it's obviously a lot of things you know, but it's not fair that you don't come in there, and at the same time you're saying that the commission doesn't do this or that, at the same time you're calling press conferences, accusing a commission in which you don't purposely work. Well, I think that's definitely, maybe it's political, at least you think it's political good, but it's very, very unconvincing. And this is all you know, here's the DORH, your obligation is all you know to report to the DORH. I think sooner or later it's going to be your turn, but it's going to be your turn and everything that the DORH has so far skipped where your party must have played a major role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67249	Dear colleague Slavko Linic, please report to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67250	Here, my colleague Markovanovic always thinks everything about SDP is a done deal, there is no need to think or pollemize. But still, since it is a colleague Ronko and yesterday's decision on him, then it should be very clear that it is really questionable for some of us that what happened yesterday. It's not for you. But then let's try and explain as you just did for Caucus what happened. Col. Ronko broke his leg during his work in the Assembly, 5th month 2009 or 6th month 2009. Three months or four months on sick leave at the 11th month, it brings out signs of that illness. He brought them in himself because he started working, ended up sick, rescheduled his leg. The paying services paid him for three months as a cobwebsman, but when he brought in the receipts of the same service, they took off their cobwebs. Where's the abuse? Where's the breach of interest? Where's the conflict of interest? Because for three months, a person's salary counts for him in one way, when they came to him in another way. Who reported the accident at work? Assembly services have reported it. What they didn't say if there's a salary to be reckoned with, so we don't communicate with the services how we get paid, it's all for the service. The services have written it all, you have a statement of service. You've been miscalculating for three months, when Ronko brought a tip, and he brought it on his own because he came to work, changed the bill, and then four months after that, the secretary reported a conflict of interest. Interesting, really interesting. Of course I don't agree with such decisions. And your opinion is that you think differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67251	Answer, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67252	Well, here's my colleague, Linic, I'm sorry that my colleague Ronko didn't honestly tell you and your folks what happened. So the injury, his injury, was at 6 months, early 6 months. Three months after that, so at the 9th month, Col. Ronko asked the Parliament for confirmation that he was injured for insurance. So they pay off some kind of insurance thing because it's a work injury. Mr. Ronko was injured on the stairs of some in Požega, okay, every parliamentary representative has a job in his town, so it can always be said that he was at work, right? Three months later, so I think that 6.12. Col. Ronko brings six papers, what he was supposed to teach every month, 6 copies of doctors that were arranged on the same day, I can give you one copy. So, arranged on the same day of 6.12. That he was on sick leave. It's an obligation for all those who are sick every month to make a sign, is it? However, he was calculated all backwards where he profited multiple. First of all, we've all been reduced by 10%, he's got like the last six months and he's got more pay than we have. He got a break, got a separate life all together, and what's strange is a colleague Ronko admitted it and neatly paid for those 17 thousand kunas you're counting on him. So, there's no question. The contentious decision, in your opinion, is the decision of a commission which, as in previous cases, has punished such things and would not be convenient if someone had been punished earlier that this abuse should not be punished. There's a problem. And that decision was made unanimously with the saying and here is a colleague of Doric and Mr Petrovic and the others without even arguing, it was logical for everyone to punish the one who tried and, in fact, some sort of deception. And there's the whole problem. I beg you, here, talk to your colleague Ronko, let him tell you the truth about why he did this three months later. Why he remembered for 6 months that he was on sick leave, and the doctor who issued those 6 signs on the same day got it because he forged them and gave them back, got fired just as much as again because of the control of their work and everything else. So, pure manipulation was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67253	And the replica, colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67254	Thank you very much. Well, in my debate, I recognize my colleague Markovanovic, in fact, what's holding you back, and it's good to lift up your replica before you know what I'm going to say, and then you know what you're going to replicate. But I do see, unfortunately, that even the intensity of this law that you or someone you're going to appoint to the commission tomorrow is the one who will be able to carry out those things that you think you're doing wrong, the BOOK, the DORH, the courts. So you'd be collecting evidence and making judgments, and then you'd see something if you needed to, and you'd see something else. Now here's a fellow Leko one case that you could have followed in the paper a dozen days a day that didn't even occur to you to ask a question about it. It's a private car used by former Minister Schuker, but you've now made that verdict and punished the man who reported the injury three days after it happened to him. So three or four days after it happened to him, and Mr. Ronko reported a work injury and the application went from the Parliament Service as far as I know, only there was obviously no sign of sick leave. Now you've made a conflict of interest. He neither paid his money, later his money was rejected and you are now making a political case out of it and calling on the SDP to kick him out of the party because he will understand what he did. And therefore, Mr. Markovanovic, I recognize what you want. You want to collect evidence and conduct investigations and make judgments, and the way you do it is best seen from the truck committee where you participated as a secretary and said everything is clean, nothing is problematic, and we see how that thing in court went down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67255	Reply to the replica of colleague Markovinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67256	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague of his own who's clearly trying to turn it the other way. So no one's asking for Mr. Ronko out, but I'm just pointing to the Vinkovic case where you've all been defending yourself, so you finally kicked him out of the party. And that's your problem your member is your problem, so you do whatever you want. Next, if you think this commission can sanction all the articles and all the papers, I don't think that's right. Perhaps the future commission that will still be equipped will be equipped for people and with all that needs to be done. This commission you know well, it works in such a way that it actually discusses applications either anonymous, which can also be put under question, either under written and I think days of no work doing so. And this whole story, here's a truck, let's say, let's say, let's see more for the Trucks. At the end of the line, I think the prosecutors thought they'd find some money trail, and they didn't find anything. And it's actually going to be very hard to prove... damage. The damages in those 3.4 years of SDP's rule were far greater. I'm not gonna mention the bending trains again and stuff like that and Daimler and it's gonna be slow, it's gonna be the turn. But the huge damages that were done there, I think they'll be sanctioned someday. So let's sanction every case that HDZ makes, why not. I think the HDZ has defined itself to sanction everything and we do it on time. And you'll probably do it a little late in your ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67257	We continue the debate, colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67258	Well, I don't think there's anyone who strongly supports the fight against conflicts of interest. But under the form of preventing conflicts of interest here is offered one dangerous law. There are two fundamental objections to this basic legislative proposal. First, he's anti-constitutional, and second, he's deeply anti-democratic. Why is he anti-constitutional? Constitutional and legal experts also spoke of this on the Committee on the Constitution. Among other things, Professor Smerdel. It's the rose of power. The parliament is a legislative but high-level representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and is now unable to establish a supremacy that would control the work of parliament and parliamentary representatives. MPs have been elected, they choose the government, they choose the officials to whom this law must apply. The President of the Republic has been elected directly. He chooses his own, appoints his associates to whom this law must apply. The leaders of the local self-government unit are directly elected by the citizens, and you are offering this law one body that will control all these elected ones. And you see the devil in order to choose that body.A qualified majority in this House, means parliamentary majority, means most of the ruling. Then the ruling would choose 5 so-called. Independents who would control everyone else, first of all the opposition. The practice of developed and old democracy speaks differently. This body in developed democracies simply doesn't exist, it's your invention, it's the invention of the government. Why is this government fiction being introduced now? Because this law actually establishes this law a body that should be the political police. And the police and the court because they have the right to impose some penalties. The law is anti-democratic, nor would King Alexander be ashamed of it. This is at the level of survival. This is directed directly against any critical opposition action. What's going on now? Do we have a committee to prevent conflicts of interest? We do. Here's what made the decision yesterday, and 10 grand in fines for Agent Ronk. We explained today that both the press and the press showed all the documents about the decision being completely unfounded. That the Secretary of Parliament chosen by this parliamentary majority is reporting to one MP 3 months after all of his signs of sick leave have been balanced and one orderly procedure has been carried out. And that commission chosen by the parliamentary majority reacts by punishing the MPs. Sanader's watches were spoken of by counterpart Leko, when the opposition was rightly asked by the prime minister to deliver a document showing how many watches he had, how much they were worth and how he obtained them. Then the government responded to this commission that Sanader had a million and a half thousand kunas of property and that they had no idea of delivering any documents to the commission. When Sanader himself answered the question in the Parliament, counterpart Markovanovic and all of you clapped on him. You clapped at him. It's your idea of preventing conflicts of interest and investigating conflicts of interest. What can happen? Prime Minister Kosor said in Dubrovnik yesterday, yesterday a criticism of the government means opposition to entering the European Union, any criticism of the government is evidence of opposition to entering the European Union. First of all, I don't see what this has to do with each other. Now, we can expect Sesar or one of you to report to Jovanovic that he has criticised the government, and that entering the European Union is of general interest, is that public interest, so it is. So Mr. Markovanovic's logic will follow the application. Jovanovic has a private interest in the SDP coming to power and will then perform some kind of function, and Croatia's public interest is to join the European Union. He criticises the government, he is in conflict of interest and should be punished. And what punishment is provided here under this law? The call to be removed by the official, if replaced by a prohibition of public office from two to five years of age, the exclusion from public life at all or the invitation to resign itself. So if this law is adopted in this form, and you are going to vote through the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest in which you will bring all five of your listeners and vote them with 77 votes, you will do so to eliminate anyone you do not like from the opposition. You'll invent a conflict of interest just like you invented with Ronk. And a ban on action for five years. Five years. On the eve of your departure from power, you offer the loss of elections a law by which you will name people who will decide on opposition politicians for five years and can exclude them from public life. Well, that's worse than... It's worse than King Alexander. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest must be of some kind of ethical commission. It would make sense for elected representatives of the people to enter it because no one above them can be MPs and that they are even elected by the 2/3 majority here in the Parliament. Here in the Parliament. To get MPs to choose amongst themselves those they trust most. About the fact that this body could impose some kind of sanctions, I'm sorry, it's pointless. That's completely pointless. This commission must also trust the public. Isn't that the public's trust they're gonna give us, and does it trust the public when they refuse to discuss Sanader's watches have lost all credibility? Does he trust the public when he's not interested in Sanader's cars at all? Any credibility has lost. Whether he trusts the public when he makes a completely pointless decision yesterday to punish a representative without any guilt, he lost his credibility to the public. And who should we trust, the ones you choose, to declare independent? So what we can expect from them is that one at a time, based on false charges, false charges, and your political dictatorship, we get kicked out of politics for five years. This law cannot be corrected, it is completely misconceived and I call on the government to withdraw it from the procedure, to sit down, to think about it a little bit, and to write if you think there is a need to write a new law, a new law that would be based on fair principles, rather than it being an attempt to control the opposition by the parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67259	Correction of the quote, colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67260	Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting the assumption that the commission's decision is unfounded. I think I've quite explained it, but here's a speech from a colleague, he wouldn't be really ashamed of King Alexander, as his gendarmes mention him there because it's in that style. And as for all these allegations you're talking about, please report to your colleague, finally if Shucker, as he said, was driving in the taxpayers' car, we know very well that the entire government of that time is driving on a yacht of a taxpayer, the Supreme Man, we know in which port, here's a game of the case that says where they entered the yacht, what they were talking about is probably because the taxpayer Vrhnik charged them 100 million kunas that they gave to Lenac Shipyard, his then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67261	Replica, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67262	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, you have guessed the point of this I would say the bill, which is to direct attention from those important things, or not to solve conflicts of interest than here we are trying to Croatia or the government in Croatia by proposing some new legal solutions, presentations, proposals, various measures to distract things from real, or attention from real problems. The problem, of course, is the selectivity of the work of the commission, because this commission that it is working now, and probably everyone else who will be named by HDZ in the future will not have legitimacy and will not work in the interest of protecting public interests, i.e. preventing conflicts of interest, but only in terms of preventing it, I would say the carrying out of any affairs and problems accumulated all these years in the Government and HDZ. The example is watches, there are many Sanaders, there are many members of the HDZ commission and still in the parliament that then claimed there was no conflict of interest. The example of a famous BMW, where last year, in the third month, Prime Minister Kosor even publicly called for potential BMW buyers to report and political opponents to the affair. And around all these affairs and the disappearance of 7 BMWs from the HDZ garage, it's also written in the media no one has asked a single word in the Committee for Conflict of Interest that anyone is showing whether these are true and where the money came from and how these movements were acquired. Of course, he is now trying to make a party polygon in this election year where it will only be used for election purposes, where he will try to qualify the opposition and political opponents as I don't know what kind of thieves because they haven't brought a sign of sick leave. Imagine the conflict of interest that you could not have come to Zagreb every month from the hospital after the operation and brought a sign of sick leave. And a commission led by this composition and colleague Markovanovic who sits there punishing a man with 10,000 kunas because a man couldn't bring out of the hospital a sign of sick leave. Here's how the HDZ committee works.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67263	Thank you very much. The answer of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67264	I wouldn't agree with you, colleague Maras, that with this legal proposal, we'd like to wait a little while for these private conversations and the shouting of MPs to stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67265	Let her explain herself because obviously the conflict of law enforcement is my understanding, because for some it's worth three days and then quit if they don't, and for some it's normal in six months they don't bring it in, so you don't have to call it out, so let's clear it up and then here's let your time go from the beginning. Here's a colleague of the Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67266	So, I wouldn't agree with you fellow Maras that the Government is seeking to draw attention from some other topics. The government is also trying to draw attention from this topic. We were to discuss this law in a consolidated agenda yesterday morning in the transfer of the assembly session. But the clean agenda has changed and he's pushing it here now it's five minutes to nineteen o'clock. The government, the promoter, is obviously ashamed of this proposal because he knows what he's proposing. Because he knows what kind of dangerous and harmful law he's proposing. The President of the Parliament knows that, therefore, the agenda is being cleansed, that this would not come out in public or that as little as possible of these discussions would reach the public. The principle of conflict control of interest, the point is to control those who rule, to control the government. This is the sense that the government is involved in this control by parliament, that the opposition plays a key role in this surveillance. Because the opposition to the nature of things, the HDZ tomorrow when it's in opposition, won't have the instruments of power, so they won't even be able to enter into a conflict of interest. Then, the logic of things would be that then HDZ controls the governing structure through this body. And what does this law offer? Not that the opposition controls the ruling, but that the rulings control the opposition. Nonsense, absurd to God.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67267	Replica Col. Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67268	I don't agree it's pointless. It makes sense when this law is used in political accounts. And we make it very clear again that our colleague Ronko has an accident in six months, and in 12 months, he's making clues. Six months unfounded gets an addition. The payoff's office pays off that allowance. When I bring the receipts, the payment office accounts and on the salary reduces and corrects the wrong payments. He's correcting the wrong payments. I've got the receipts. He brought it himself. Therefore, he neither received any higher wages nor received unfounded incomes, nor received any more kunas. Therefore, there is no material damage to the state budget. And now we're coming to what? Yeah, my colleague Ronko was responsible for not delivering it monthly. But people he's responsible for not delivering monthly records. Is that a conflict of interest? That's great. That's what we're opening up. It can't be a conflict of interest. Don't make any sense, take me, read me the law and determine where it's a conflict of interest. No material damage, no abuse, no... Only indiscipline in passing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll tell you one of your abuses. As a parliamentary representative, I'm obliged to sign up for the book. I don't sign up. You want to punish me for 10 grand? You're punishing me. I don't mind, because I don't respect the Rules of Procedure that says I should sign up. I don't respect you. I'm not signing up. Is that an abuse? So I ask if it's abuse? Is that a conflict of interest? It's a conflict of interest. Bravo! That's all you're interpreting, but at the same time, you all know the minister is doing whatever he wants to do to you, but you're not running it. No one's running. Great! You're the only one who's counting politically. That's why we think these are political accounts, not...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67269	Col. Linic, my colleague Stazic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67270	My colleague Linic, you are in vain trying to explain, because this noise that comes to your explanation on the other side shows the obvious nervousness of those who are wrong, those who cannot face the arguments that you are making, and then try to outsmart those arguments simply with the power of their voice, shouting, because shouting remained as the only argument. We can eventually, as you said, agree that colleague Ronko may have been sloppy in delivering documents. But the sloppyness in the delivery of documents is not a conflict of interest. Nowhere has the personal interest of Zdravko Ronka faced any public interest. Zdravko Ronko did not provide any signs of sickness in time, and Prime Minister Sanader never delivered a single piece of evidence of the bags he received from Barisic for himself and HDZ, but for this commission both for this parliamentary majority and for those who are now making noises in the Assembly is not a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67271	Thank you. And a replica, colleague Borzan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67272	Thank you. Here, Mr. Stazic, in his debate, you spoke of how interesting it is that these amendments to the law are now being passed at the end of this term for a term of five years. I am afraid that the Committee for Conflict of Interest, with the prevention of conflicts of interest or in short, might say the PSI will tear this opposition apart by the end of the term as they are working with counterpart Ronko today, and in the next term serve the opposition faithfully, so to HDZ. That's what I'm afraid of, I think it's one justifiable fear, because that's exactly why this bill is going forward today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67273	And the answer, fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67274	Comrade Borzan, your fear is therefore fully justified, because that is also the reason why this law is proposed, that is, the reason. There is no urgency here to regulate the area of prevention of conflicts of interest. Here's a colleague, Markovanovic, actually speaking a handsome example, on an island. You have a mayor and you have some kind of construction company that only works on a small island, and it's run by some brother, his cousin, so whatever, and the purpose of this committee would be to use common sense, so if the mayor hires that company, that he said, he had no other choice. He had to spend more money, and would it be a public interest to spend more city money? No, you wouldn't. So using common sense, not by the logic of political reckoning, as is the case now, and not by the logic of protecting its members or its political options, does not initiate any proceedings against any apparent, large, insufferable negativity, but, therefore, and where there are no violations, where there is any disorderly delivery, delayed delivery of something, triggers the proceedings and brings judgment. So that the intensity of this law is to regulate this area, and then the proposer would make a different proposal, and then he would deal with the opportunities Markovanovic was talking about, to help the commission, to give him instruments, to resolve the conflict without harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67275	Thank you. Fellow Susana Bilić Vardić is next in line. She's gone. Then let's move on. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Here I am sorry that, of many colleagues, the debate on the new law's proposal actually comes down to the comment of one individual case, to their indignation because it is a representative from their ranks, to their defense as one, I don't know what to say, political units in this House, but I have to tell my colleagues that there is judicial protection against the decision of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, there is the possibility of starting a dispute before the Administrative Court, so I would suggest that in one of the proceedings as provided for by our laws it becomes a lawsuit, so it proves that it is not responsible and was not in conflict of interest. It will certainly be more effective and better than these references to yours and ours, and whenever they are ours, they are a political reckoning. I will support this law in my first reading, of course, by asking the proposings to take into account and consider all these remarks that have come from the board, which are also highlighted in this debate in order to come to a good full text. First of all, it is good that we are passing a new law for the reason that since 2003, this law has suffered five amendments, which deserves a whole new text, and I must say that there is, of course, a newspaper in this law, but a good part of the provisions is actually a sublimation of the first law of origin and their amendments. Well, here's what I have to tell my colleague, Leca, because there's always some insinuations about who and why some law is being written, so it's also said that because of the behavior of the former prime minister or someone who had something to do with HDZ, we've now established in the concept of connected persons as we've established, and here I'm reading the 2003 law that passed the coalition government of SDP, in which it says that they're connected in terms of this law, so all those you've listed are related to relatives in the second degree and related to the rule of law to the first degree, and all identical to what it is and in the proposal of this law, because that's what's prescribed is the norm from the first law of 2003. But it doesn't matter. Let's just not keep looking at why and why it's written, let's all work together to pass a good law, because there are certainly measures to prevent conflicts of interest and measures to prevent corruption. And now just a few words, time has moved away, specifically on some of the provisions of this law, where we would have certain suggestions. Here we have specifically said that among the applicants of the application of this law it is necessary to include persons who perform duties exposed to high corruption risks. I agree, of course, and I think that a good provision that this circle has spread to civil servants, highly-ranked civil servants, because as we know that same rank was once, these were called ministerial assistants who were officials, so as such they entered into the circle of these persons, later the Law on Transfer of Government they became senior civil servants, but since they behave in matters where high corruption risks are likely to fall within this circle of persons, and of course they should consider, not in this law as through officials, but certainly resolving the conflict of the interests of civil servants who often decide and resolve very important and large rights, citizens' rights almost identical as the court in some administrative proceedings. Furthermore, I suggest that somewhere in the reasoning of the law, it also says that here are the officials of units of local, or regional administrations, the same restriction is foreseen for officials at the state level. However, this postulate is not consistently implemented through legal provisions. First, as regards the president and members of the company management who are in the circle of officials within the meaning of this law. So so far, we have a provision that, at the level of the state, the presidents and members of the management of the companies that are wholly owned by the state would be within the circle of these persons, but not the presidents and members of the management of the companies owned by the units of local self-government. I've already talked about it, there are companies owned by units that have budgets that are bigger, they do public procurement jobs at higher amounts than municipalities or cities do, and they won't be in this circle of people who have to do whatever this law provides to prevent conflicts of interest. I also suggest to the applicant that he consider a circle of persons in relation to the mayors and mayors and mayors in relation to the presidents of the council, i.e. the assembly and council members, in view of the amendment of the Law on the selection of mayors and mayors and mayors and members of the representative bodies, since these amendments have increased, i.e. to strengthen the fact that there is no more headship, that a good part of the jobs in both public procurement and in the purchase and tendering of more than one million kuna has been moved to the council. In addition, in the case of a prohibition of membership in the supervisory boards of commercial companies, this is a membership in the administrative bodies and supervisory committees of Article 13. – I warn only of the inconsistency between the ban on officials at the state level compared to officials at local level. For local level, officials shall not be in the supervisory boards of companies owned by units, local units or where they have shares, and at national level if I read well, officials shall not be members of the administrative bodies and supervisory boards of commercial companies. So, any and all private-owned ones, if that's what the Proposer thought. Which means that at the local level, an official may be a member, or chairman of the Supervisory Board, so it is a small question whether this aspect of conflict of interest might be the chairman of a supervisory board in a private company with which the local unit will conclude business. Also, I would like to warn you about Article 32, not Article 11, excuse me, of article 11. Therefore, this should be clarified in Article 11 concerning Article 12. Therefore, the legislator, and in consultation with other laws on election of MPs, on election of mayors and mayors and mayors, on election of members of the representative bodies of local self-government units, should be harmonised whether someone elected on one duty can also act on another duty. The provisions of this law make it seem to me that things are being served in relation to the numbering of incompatible duties under other laws. But then it seems to me that this provision of Article 11 becomes groundless if we have a general prohibition of appointments, i.e. the conduct of 2 public duties at the same time, and they do not need these provisions, that if it behaves one way or the other, it cannot receive wages and when it is extraordinary to receive compensation, then the same should be clarified because we have already had solutions to the commission so far different in different individual cases. So this should certainly be clarified and arranged. Here, mostly I also support this provision to reduce the share in the capital of the official to 0.5 of the current 20, with the fact that it might still need to consider the criteria and the size of these business entities. And I see my time is up, and I support the passing of this law. I think it's also good that this commission is depolitized as planned. I no longer have time to talk about the way we choose, and let's not label it that way because it turns out that some representatives of certain political parties would be satisfied and say that something is impartial only if the law said that they would choose that body with their votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67277	Thank you very much. So far, we've registered six replicas. First of all, colleague twilight, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Lovrin wouldn't really want this to go to some labeling like you said, but here's the experience I can say because I'm coming from a place where it works and it's clear that this is about a colleague, maybe he missed it, but it's being punished. Because he's a parliamentary representative and a mayor doesn't give him the right to act like one. After three days, he logs in in any way, and every month, he gets a clear signal. All of us in a working relationship would have been punished long ago and already on the road. Being a parliamentary representative must show that this does not seem to be the case. Just because someone doesn't sign up in a book, that's bravado. If we all sign up, we all have to, and that's the part. ... So I ask my colleague what she thinks about it and what you think about it, for example. One of us is whether it's the same conflict of interest that one of us went to sea, so we're MPs, 7 euros a day. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's known, the newspaper won't report it, of course. I'm sorry, buddy, but that's the way it is for you. Or we take the Navy, so we go for a little drive around the islands for coffee. Is that a conflict of interest? Are we using our positions? Believe me, it never occurred to me because I think this is an honorable place we're doing. I come from a family and from an environment that has taught me that dignity and honesty cannot be paid or paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67279	Thank you. My colleague Lovrin, there's no need. Well, then let's move on with the replica. A colleague named Stazic called.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67280	Dear colleague Lovrin, our debate did not come down to the defense of fellow Ronka. Ronka doesn't have to defend herself at all. He's being defended by facts. Documents and evidence. And they are insurmountable to you. Ron’s example here serves us as only one warning of what will happen or what can happen if this law is voted in this form or similar form. Look, your colleague Hebrang told his colleague Jovanovic yesterday that he was the most corrupt person in the country. He says that by the living and healthy Sanader, next to Polancec, next to Rončević. He declares Jovanovic the most corrupt person on earth. And now I'm just waiting for the Sesar you've chosen as secretary to encourage this kind of Hebrang analysis to report Jovanovic to some kind of conflict of interest. Why? What offense? It doesn't matter. He was late for a session of the Parliament, it's a public interest to be at the Parliament's session, and his private interest was to stop by and buy bread. Enough for Sesar as well as for Ronk. And then this commission of five of your people will ban Jovanovic from doing politics for five years. That's what we're warning you about. And you as an experienced lawyer, be careful not to blink yet, you as an experienced lawyer colleague, Lovrin, Ronka did not even call to listen to him. And what do you think as a former minister in a procedure where you didn't even listen to him?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67281	It always comes to you with a sow like that, even in these cases. But there's a colleague named Lovrin. Let her answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67282	Thank you very much. First of all, you're saying the fact that they're defending someone. I'll state the fact you said it wasn't true that there was a debate on the defense. I don't know what I've been listening to for the last hour, so that's all I'm listening to. Mr. Ronko is not convicted. He's made a decision. He has a chance to seek judicial protection. As for Mr. Jovanovic, the president said that you sow so much, but every statement provokes another statement. After Mr Jovanovic's statement that we are all candidates for criminals, all of us from HDZ, members of the HDZ, I think I'd say a very bad term but you'll sue me, which is what it is, of course, exclusiveness, he's got the answer. Of course, I don't support such conversations and such methods of reckoning. But also counterpart Jovanovic said important yesterday when he was proved to be anything that he would leave politics forever. Is what he says to all of us all the time, if it's proven, and for himself he's looking for evidence before it's said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67283	Next to the replica of his colleague Tomljanović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67284	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, a distinguished colleague would be replicated in the part where she spoke of reasons for the law and because of all the debates that went on about the fact that he'd come from the adoption of this law of some kind of hidden intention, mentions King Alexander, published and some other bright examples in our recent and further history. I had the opportunity to participate even in working groups that discussed these institutes and, in fact, what was professional and every other public expected to change in the existing law, and that is what is about to change. This is all about property cards, checks, so then we have this insistence of independence in the political sense of the commission itself and the expansion of the circle of sanctions. And this is precisely what this law changes in a way that we also adapt these standards to all EU countries that, in one way or another, have regulated these institutes in a similar way. Now, about politicizing or some kind of political game related to the commission, just this, the commission, or any other procedure that may occur either criminal or criminal. Now whenever there's a conflict of interest between some opposition politicians, then it's a political reckoning. It's a political reckoning. Someone's playing, and they're dealing politically with someone. And when it's in the other direction, it means when there's a conflict of interest or some other responsibility being punishable, it's a fight against corruption. Well, it's just by the nature of things, by logic it's a contradiction. So, in that sense, and I'm saying we're all the same in front of the law, because the law is the same for everyone. Corruption and corrupt behavior are both on the one hand and on the other, but when it comes to this other side, it's a political reckoning. That way, neither this investigative committee can function, and there are many of these problems for this last case, because it is your parliamentary representative and everything, and the unanimous decision was. And it wasn't just the parliamentary representatives of the position who made the decision, it's explained, it's what it is, and it's got the right to appeal, and it's been unanimously made. It's an example of political reckoning. And when we have another situation, it's to fight corruption and prevent conflicts of interest. You're not doing well. That doesn't make sense. It just can't go through legally and logically.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67285	... The answer to the replica of Anna Lovrin. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67286	... with you at all, and we should finally... talk, not by argument at home to see who it is, not what it is. [[Speech is not enabled.]] And in this sense, I also use this answer for just one more thing, so that this commission will be of any quality under the new law's proposal, please pay attention, and I didn't say that, in terms of selecting the president and members of the committee as they are being smuggled that it can't be a person who's legally convicted of a criminal offence, it turns out that someone against whom a criminal trial is being conducted or who is under investigation may be elected to this commission or if, during the term of office, a criminal procedure is being investigated or that would not be the reason for the termination of the term of office, and I think that it should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67287	Thank you. The replica of my colleague, Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67288	Thank you. My colleagues, Lovrin, you presented one thesis for which I would like to get an additional explanation if I understood correctly. In fact, you have said that you believe it is necessary for council members and members of local administrations to also be involved in this Law on conflict of interest. Such a rough calculation would be about 15, 20 thousand people plus these companies that you're talking about. I don't know which body could process all these cards, process all these cases, react to all the possible reports that would come here. It would be possible that some systems have, so let's say, the United States seems to me to have local conflicts of interest committees that would be situationed by these local representative bodies might have, but the central commission, give him as wide a range of "checkers" I hope that at least and it won't get into this as far as I consider an insufficiently good proposal of this law. Please, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67289	Answer, colleague Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67290	Of course, fellow Members, I was aware that this proposal of mine was to suffer this particular objection that it would receive too much burden and too wide a circle of people. But if the intensity and purpose of this law is to take in this circle all persons working on the duties of high corruption risk, then I claim that there is a greater corruption risk at the head of a large public company that is dealing with public money than one company that is wholly owned by the state. Maybe it's kind of a minor little company that hasn't been privatized yet and completely insignificant and powerless. I'd agree, and I'm not far from thinking about any local committees on the local level. Why not, it's the same possibility. But certainly what I was saying was that these corruption risks are now higher at Council and President-in-Office of the Council than they were before the adoption of the new Law on the Direct Selection of Mayors and Commissioners because many powers from the headship were transferred to the Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67291	Thank you very much. And the last replica. A colleague named Maras called. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67292	Mrs. Lovrin, you said we were on our way to defend one of our colleagues who got a commission ruling yesterday. I'll tell you what the basic thing is about that case. First of all, a man is punished for being honest. Six months and he didn't, he was in sick leave and he agreed to get his sick leave, he agreed to get 15% less pay, a supplement of about 3500, 4000 kuna a month. So 25 thousand kunas is a man consciously, because he's honest, he's been sick, he hasn't come to work, he reported it, and you've still punished him with 10,000 kuna. And what's the difference, because now you're saying that everyone is required within 3 days to report according to the Labour Act. Parliamentarians shall have their rights, obligations and duties in accordance with the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs. So now you have a case of an agent not coming to work for a few months because a man can't come, he's in Austria. He can't come, they won't let him go, so he didn't lose his job, otherwise the Labour Act is defined if you don't answer for three days, you don't come to work, you lose your right to be a labor contract. So the difference between what you're saying about three days and what's in practice. The man "lost" didn't lose because he was honest and reported to be sick, paid him 30 thousand kunas less, and now you've punished him with 10,000 kunas, or not you, but the commission. I apologize, not you but the commission, and on the other hand that you were interested in 20 years of the Croatian Parliament do you know how many representatives were on sick leave? Maybe 10. Well, it either looks like Parliamentarians are the healthiest part of the population or Mr. Ronko is basically honest, not what you claim to be exactly the opposite of being unfair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67293	Thank you very much. My colleague Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67294	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maras, not only did you spend your debates to get involved in one individual case of your parliamentary representative, and I mention, which I didn't punish, what comes to your mind. A decision has been made by the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest unanimously. The person has the right to judicial protection and may, in proceedings before the Administrative Court, prove that the decision was not good and legal. But now you're wasting your replicas to repeat it and repeat it to me because we've heard here that Mr. and now you're making me comment, but I have to because they're untrue and don't poster over certain fates, that he's reported lost something to that illness, etc. It was a work injury he reported as a work injury, he got 100%, so he didn't lose anything and the assembly service obviously learned about it all together six months after everything. When he came in six months later, he brought in a tip because the Assembly Service doesn't see where he is when he's not here in the assembly. That's it. But I wouldn't want to get involved in this individual case any further and discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67295	I ask you to try to return to the debate on the law, not the decision of the Commission for conflict of interest, because the commission has written a solution as it has written, to whom it has the right to appeal and let it be resolved and that we do not here or judge or execute any penalties. Comrade Leko, you're still reporting for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67296	Thank you very much. I can't help but say that I'd be happy to read the commission's decision and what kind of structure it is, what they found conflict of interest in that, because the injury was reported... No, no, let it go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I won't be in a session where it's being debated like that. The second thing I wanted to warn you is, I agree with you that the old article of the applicable law, Article 4, gave a circle of persons to whom the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest applies, so family and interest related persons. And I added this article of the 16th Bill where the restrictions on business with the body in which he is in charge and for all members and family, and I said that, the official will be responsible for the conflict of interest whether or not he knew that his family member had more than 0.5% of the participation in a company. So it will be an objective conflict without the subjective involvement of the official. It's an opportunity to deal with people. It's a convenient opportunity to deal with people. And secondly, I keep saying this, the conflict of interest depends not on statistical ownership, but on whether someone has done something for the benefit of an individual or a group at the expense of or beyond the interest of the general community. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67297	That is good and certain to be observed in this way. Here I agree, because the other day a book came into my hands, which is actually a form of how it's been described as being anointed by law, but then you can't tell because you're breaking the law by what you're saying. You want to answer this? No, I don't. Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67298	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When Mr. Shakespeare spoke on behalf of the board, that is, by submitting the report of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, I reacted to this by raising and using this institute to correct the incorrect allegations. However, I was not enabled from the chair table. Afterwards, Mr. Shakespeare himself turned himself in that it was the first time we hadn't met and that I had no right to do so in short. Now you'll see how HDZ's lab breaks, these laws and then the Rules of Procedure depending on whose mold is SDP's or HDZ's. And we can think, therefore, when, in the light of all of us who are participants, we can look at what has been done for a couple of months, because it's all been recorded and you don't hesitate to do that either, or by ruling when neither what can be checked is how to trust these independent bodies and the formations and the clusters that you're going to put together. And why is that? For political dealings with unthinkers ahead of the election. It's perfectly clear to everyone. Here you go. When Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, on the day of the year of Mr. 14.7.2010, the day was famous when Bastilj fell, so I guess this one, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, said on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, submitted a report, Mr. Fristic, you acted according to the law as vice president and you said we have a correction of the alleged colleague Đurđica Sumrak. Here you go, pals. And Mrs. twilight was making a nice correction and you let her even if she wasn't a member of that board and so on. There's so much about your legality a la HDZ. And please be nice. It is not Mr. Vice-President Shakespeare who has now shown himself, so convey it nicely to him in favour of his rich practice and interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and the Law of the likes of the HDZ as it is the habit not only of his, but of most of the HDZ. Speaking of a bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest, I think it's a fundamental law, and when we've passed it back in 2002, third year, it seems to me the third year of the law's purpose is to restore trust in politics, to prevent all cases, so those where an official might come in, here comes Mr. Shakespeare, where an official might come in conflict of interest. But let's get back to that problem that bothers Croatia. Unfortunately, few cases of conflict of interest may have been and they did not get so excited or poor in Croatia. What is the cancer of Croatia is the absolute coincidence of private and state-owned, not conflict of interest, but of some powerful men like this fugitive in Austria, who simply considered the elections he received to be his own prey and those clients around him so that he could turn the state into a private one. Apparently all of us saw that the state was turning into private, everyone saw it. Not a lot of people dare talk about it. That's what people were writing about. And if they talked about it, if they wrote about it against them, media warrants were launched. These people were unscrupulous. You were crucified on the cross of shame because they dared to talk about that and such a man, about that and the man you've all defended here, we're not going to take out the phonograms, swear on him, defend ourselves from the stained veins, and now you don't remember that because you think it was so long ago that it wasn't even true that it was at all. And while the cultural people remember Verona by Romeo and Juliet, what will we remember him by? In Pliva, we remember him and everything in that order. So, it impoverished Croatia where the public eye of all of us has become private, where the state has turned into a party. Mrs. Kosor says no, you can't steal anymore and nobody can put it in your pocket. The bags have yet to be told whether or not they were allowed in the sacks and if there is anything else in Barisic's bag to support any more campaigns by the end of the year. But it's none of our business now. But in any case, this is exactly how politics not this or that law, but that kind of policy has impoverished Croatia, robbed Croatia and disgraced Croatia. Croatia is therefore impoverished, robbed and disgraced. That's our biggest problem. Unfortunately, however, this is not solved by one law or by one. That's what politics is all about. And corruption is something that is more and stronger than just conflict of interest. A conflict of interest is something an official cannot do, and otherwise an ordinary citizen can do. That's it. But as we'll all agree, such a scale of this kind of thing couldn't do it. It's not some excess in action. That's basically what it's all about. Therefore, when we talk about the bill's proposal to prevent conflicts of interest, we all agreed here that we really needed one new law, that we had positive experiences, which was good to advance, which was not good that was unscheduled to correct. So, to go to a different concept that runs away from politics as if politics were contagious, it's primarily dangerous, and that's what Professor Smerdel talked about on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, which he was talking about precisely that it was a matter of democracy's wisdom, so instead of giving me back politics to the sources, political parties themselves, which is what it is and how it's written in the Constitution and we're running away from it in some quasi body. And what countries do that? Those who absolutely, where citizens have no confidence in institutions in politics and politicians. They're running off into some kind of paraphrases, a couple of state bodies. We have some kind of a couple of state bodies today, because there's no politics to do that. And then that's where people put their political trust in the front row, they don't answer to anyone, because they're independent. It's dangerous. It's very dangerous, it's basically dangerous. This is unconstitutional, the competencies given to such a body are the disseminating of Parliament itself, and, as many advanced countries have pointed out, they have kept it within Parliament, so they have allowed parliamentarians, associations to prevent such cases nicely, because it is the essence of the commission, and the whole of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest to prevent certain situations and avoid situations. Not to put someone in such a position, but to simply prevent such opportunities at all. So the essence of the law and the meaning of the law to restore trust in politics, and in politicians, to fight for the purity of political life, to rehabilitate politics, and in this way, we defile it even more ourselves. It's something that's not, which is very dangerous. I think it's already the impasses of the ruling, when there are no more answers to those current questions. The very composition of the commission to be professionals, whose mandate would be 5 years, would have a coefficient as members of the DIP, so these are one rich syncure. What should be specifically discussed are the powers of the Commission alone. These powers here, in some ways, are even lighter than the existing law. But to go back maybe to a very specific example... Can this man, his companies, no matter what they're transferred to someone else or to someone else, do business with the state? [[You don't understand.]] So far there have been 20% stakes, now it's shrinking to 0.5%, and this government is making more, it's proposing the law that we've just passed that the manufacturer can only service such ones. So let's not get in here, have a service license, so let's not play that stuff. Then let's be clear, let's stop transferring that she or business or politics, or someone will be involved in politics, if there are such companies why he would be poor, but he can't deal with the state. Or let's not deal with politics. And just allow one more sentence, regarding these sanctions. These are sanctions that the communist system had, and that is when it finds someone guilty of a serious crime with political consequences. This cannot have a commission to deny someone whether or not someone will be involved in politics, only competent authorities or parliament or competent judicial authorities, the Constitutional Court, and not this commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67299	Thank you. Don't even take decisions to the House to deny someone our politics. Replica was a colleague of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67300	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Anticevic. You're absolutely right. It was me, I was wrong, I just came to Parliament and I didn't know I couldn't replicate. I, I'm not ashamed, I apologized to my colleague and now I'm publicly sorry, of course I did, because I didn't know I couldn't. And I've responded to a case of beekeepers, they're on my heart, I deal with them. And now something else, I just want to say, here you are talking, maybe in this last part of it with you in some way and I agree, but I'd be very glad if you in the opposition once said that all the ones we've just listed here are passed the law, or the zero tolerance rate towards corruption, they're all under investigation and they're all in prison, and we support it, and that's how we want it to be. It seems to me that you don't have the strength to say it at all, and that it's really bothering you, and it's a shame that you're probably getting closer to the time that you're going to have to look at each other for a little bit of what's going on and who's going on and who's going to have to end up like that. But we're not ashamed, you say no at work, we honestly tell you the man is in jail. He's guilty. He will be guilty when he is convicted, those who are under investigation, so we are not here to be ashamed of anything. We're sitting here, and if there's any need, none of us will respond. I wonder why you defend yourself in small things, why defend yourself by saying little, tiny things to a thief? I think that out of these little, tiny thieving thieves, big thieves are moving, and indicators are how they think and how they want to be, and this government has now shown what they think of corruption. There are no large and small names and last names and political parties. They'll all answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67301	Thank you. Correction of the quote, colleague Tomljanović. ... Two more replicas. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You'll replicate the boys, no problem. My colleague has to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67302	Before our colleague gets out of the assembly. Here I am correcting an incorrect quote, I think you're an esteemed colleague, it's incorrect, and you've even said it twice. And it says that this law is passed for political dealings with political inexperiences and that in this sense it represents a tool and a means to deal with political inexperiences. That's incorrect. You yourself know that that is not true, and I would remind you that this law is changing, that is, the new law, you know about the obligation or the subjugation relating to Chapter 23. I am not going to say again that it is a condition or a prerequisite, but in any case the obligation to regulate this law in a way that the three institutes I spoke about in a new way, because in terms of the implementation of the existing laws, shortcomings have been observed. So property cards, property card checks, political, depolitisation of the commission itself and the sanctions system. And that's what this is about. So if you repeat the incorrect allegations three times, you actually want to tell the public that most, the parliamentary majority wants to pass the law for political account with, I don't know who. Well, I mean, you're calling out for some time, that's where the King's Alexanders are mentioned, or I don't know what. Well, that's just not true, and it needs to be fixed. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67303	Thank you. Comrade Stazic, you want to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67304	Since counterpart Tomljanovic did not have the courage to lift up, but rather goes by correcting the incorrect allegations, I was going to give my colleague Ingrid a chance to repeat these words, so he can answer. But now, I'm gonna get my colleague Ingrid, no matter what she's gone, one piece of evidence that she's right when she says this. This stems from the law, in the provisions of Article 31 which defines how these 5 are selected. They are elected by secret vote, by the majority of all MPs, and now it says this for the president of the commission that the candidate who gets most of the votes of all MPs will be elected, and four candidates who receive most of the votes of all MPs will be elected equally. Which one of them will be president in a secret vote has been elected. He says the chairman of the commission must have completed a graduate and university study of the legal profession, and are elected by secret vote. So how are you going to get the most votes to get exactly the candidate who has a degree in legal profession, that is, a master's degree in jurisprudence unless you agree in advance on who it will be. So when you make a deal in advance which one it will be, then you'll vote in secret. And the proposer didn't even bother to hide it. Not even that. Therefore, the intensity of this law is absolutely clear and that colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic is right, he is right. He also has the right to say to the proposing representatives when the law was first passed, his urgency was to restore confidence in politics. Well, if you were on that trail, everyone would support you, and your bill destroys trust in politics. He'll do evil.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67305	Thank you. My colleague Antičević doesn't want to respond to the replica. Do you want to replicate your colleague Maras?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67306	So I have to say one thing, colleague Antičević has really given one excellent bang of full intensity and the way this law is being prepared and what is being achieved with it and how the commission has so far been seen from another example. The commission has all the information that Croatian citizens have. Is he still an official, since here says counterpart Sumrak until they are convicted, of course not, and the suspect is also in custody and the Croatian Parliament official is a Parliament MP Sanader, and we read every day about having so much or so much property, so USKOK takes this, USKOK takes that. Has the commission come forward on this? The procedure is ongoing, but whether he's in conflict of interest or not? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, And that's what the general problem is. The problem is that the commission has been serving all these years exclusively for the needs of a political option.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67307	Okay. The reply to the replica is still missing, but there are further applications for discussion. Dear colleague Tanja Vrbat, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67308	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the House, fellow Members and the remaining colleagues who are here at this late hour, representatives of the government. Let me first of all refer to this European part immediately. We, when a law is to be pushed by force, put it under the EU's mantra. We're being asked to do something. There is no general regulation, or the EU does not prescribe anything around, regulates in detail this conflict of interest, but every country has its own system in its own order. Therefore, this law does not even have a P.Z.E. code. nor is he referring to any legal gain. In addition, I wanted to say when we talk about the political action of people, the general conflict between legal and public interest raises the question of constitutional principles, starting with the representative criteria on which all democratic institutions are based. Since politics, there's always been a debate about this issue. When we discuss norming and preventing conflicts of interest with public officials, we look little at some of the facts that may seem irrelevant to me, but I think they play a big part. I believe that a major role in this whole topic can be played by political parties that could educate their members and candidates for public duty and select the best candidates through the party democratic processes. Although everyone has the right to run and be elected in the elections, as we know, political parties still play a central role in our political life, and it might not be a bad thing to predict in some way some instrument of education of candidates themselves or candidates for public duties. Because I believe that many, especially local officials, are not at all familiar with possible conflicts of interest in which they find themselves later. I believe such violations come from ignorance or misunderstanding. I think it used to be said that human policy is the most important policy and that there is something in it. There can also play a major role in the education system of the Republic of Croatia, so that we begin to interpret from children and from high school students that it is a public duty to act as an honor, to defend the public interest of those people who act in public functions. We have the perception of officials, local or state, that there's some kind of kidnapper, that there's some sort of something everybody steals. We make our own contribution, including to today’s discussions, to be perceived in this way. And then, of course, there's political hacks, and I don't know what to prove, and I don't know what to do with these bill proposals. In many countries, it is no accident to say that it is used for the conduct of public duty. And I believe that it is serving your country or your city and it is an honorary duty that we must all prove by example that this is so and restore confidence in politics as my colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, said before me. I want to point out that there is a need for deep action on the very change of perception and awareness of the conduct of public duty. And we will pass such a law... Maras! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And we will pass such a law that will have such intensity if we are well-intentioned, if we really want to pass a law that wants to regulate the preservation of public interest. My colleagues before me spoke in detail about some of the many controversial solutions provided for in this first proposal, the first reading of this bill. I won't say too much, but I still have to say what really stings my eyes, to think that part of these provisions is an attack on the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, I believe that no indirect elected body can withdraw a mandate directly from the elected official. Either the one on the state level or the local level. We're here introducing some kind of Board of Governors of Revolution that have some countries that can't exactly be raised by a democratic order. There are no verdicts and we cannot form such a body or we can form such a body, but then we will bring such a body through the constitutional law to intervene in the Constitution and then, by constitutional law, we will regulate such a body. I believe that this law must not be passed for a pre-election purpose, and I believe that it should be passed with as wide a majority as possible. I would be very pleased if you could bring yourself with a two-thirds majority because then it would mean that we are all well-meaning and that we have a really good proposal. And this proposal seems to me to be a political pamphlet prescribed by some countries that have nothing to do with our legal arrangement or our legal tradition, and such a proposal has been spiced up by additional decorations that I think, in the case of the Prime Minister of former Sanader, have yet to come upon this poor copy of a bad solution. I believe that it may need to be separated in some parts of this proposal by local officials from state officials. We sometimes in the Parliament and in this state part of politics do not realize that by our actions, we do not see the forest from the tree, we make it hard for local units to work. I think it's already very difficult to perform some kind of local duty volunteering. And with this bill of law, this volunteerism is completely impossible. And I don't think it's the smartest thing to have the same regulation for a minister or prime minister and some mayor of a small poor community who, for example, might be working in some kind of firm that has an father-in-law whose father-in-law is connected to that person and he's now in conflict of interest, and he's doing volunteer work. So what is it that this man should live on? Well, no one's gonna want to run for those functions. I've studied these other countries a little bit how they regulated this topic, and I want to point out here a French example that's a lot like this, but it's much more serious. They have the Transparency Council at parliament and then the Transparency Council which discusses possible cases of conflict of interest between members of parliament and the government points to the Presidency of the Parliament or their parliament for a possible conflict of interest, or thus makes some decision, and then they pass it on to the French version of the Constitutional Court, who then eventually makes a verdict and a decision, and also to withdraw the mandate, but to the Constitutional Court. Either a ban on running for up to 10 years or a fine. If, however, in France, the Transparency Commission finds that the property of an officer not registered in the property card has not been explained. And he asks the official for an explanation about this unexplained property, then that council does not make a decision but informs the State's Attorney's Office and it fits into a system of French democracy that is very similar in many parts and with ours. I believe that there are a lot of disputed provisions, it has not yet been mentioned whether article 50 and 51 means that it cannot be a local official, for example, mayor and mayor and representative in the Croatian Parliament. So we're not going to change that by this law that's being passed by a simple majority. If we're going to go into it, and I personally think that might be a good thing, we're going to change that by electoral legislation. We can't, by ordinary law, change the electoral law. I hope so. I therefore call and here I am taking advantage of the opportunity here that the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Businessman and the political system to call for seriousness and to call for serious work on the second reading of this law, and that possibly the institute of some formal or informal circle of members of that committee should be seriously compared to this proposal to agree on as many provisions as possible and to consider the possibility of adopting a law of two-thirds. Here I hope it goes in that direction somehow. I think there's still time to change this draft in terms of a serious law that will be long-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67309	Thank you. Correction of the quote by fellow Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67310	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's the first false assumption that this law is passed in a hurry. My colleagues, this law is in the regular assembly procedure. This is the first reading, a public debate about all these institutes, professional gatherings, round tables were under way, I dare say for months. So, no speed and no one in terms of the institute because legal solutions don't hide here. Second. It's not about any attack on the constitutional order, so it's a false assumption. So, I quote this law: "Attack on constitutional order." This is just one of the proposed models, and in the first reading there's plenty to, against, critics, explanations of such, two professors of constitutional law, two different opinions, I won't quote any. A model that is acceptable is perfectly safe with small modifications can be incorporated into our existing legislative and constitutional system. And the third thing, when you mention a conflict of interest, you re-connect it to a crime. One is criminal responsibility, criminal proceedings, the other is criminal liability, a misdemeanor procedure, and in many cases it has absolutely nothing to do with conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is something else, and in that sense, my colleague, I wanted to tell you that when you mention some cases that are even jumping objects, you want us to discuss them at the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67311	In the future, you have a second plate, and then you have a little longer. Now it's time for my colleague Lovirn, she signed up for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67312	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd like to do is replicate in the part where my colleague said that this law was being passed because of Europe because someone's pushing, and that's not even P.Z.E. The law and that you don't see where we'd have to bring it, that there's no legal gain, etc. That's right. There's no directive, there's no compliance with the acquis, but it's something else. Therefore, Croatia has adopted an Action Plan for Justice Reform and this Croatian Parliament adopted in June 2008 a Strategy to combat corruption as a criterion for opening Chapter 23 - Justice and Fundamental Rights, where certain demands that certain standards be reached in the judiciary and the fight against corruption. To achieve these standards, one measure is a series of preventive and repressive measures in the fight against corruption. One of the prevention measures in the fight against corruption has just been outlined and the adoption of a new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. And in that sense, it is in line with the criteria set out for closing and implementation now and for closing chapters. And what we always point out is that it is not our own purpose, but our own goal is to set this country at its highest standards and to do everything possible to make corruption in Croatia the least possible measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67313	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we often pass laws and certain measures to distract and create an impression of something being done. When I listen to the debates of a guy we deal with corruption, it gets the impression that we should be proud in Croatia that this has been happening all these years. Well, here's a chance to fight it then. It's amazing, gentlemen, so you should say, bravo, what's been going on is that we can now show as here we're determined in this fight, and not that it should be ensured that you're responsible for that not happening. Can't you see your responsibility here? And now that we're in the same situation as we are, we're proposing a law that should show you again how we're going to step forward, how we as a Croatian Parliament are going to pass a law that prevents these situations from happening in the future. And it's hard not to take the impression that it's just the law that's been proposed because of the need for the Prime Minister to say at a cabinet session that things like they've been happening so far will never be possible again. And that's simply not true because bad people will be in the future. But the responsibility of those who have been so far has been enormous and cannot be with one law or suddenly forgotten and erased. And that's why you see provisions here that talk about how accounts will be monitored in Croatia and abroad. As a coincidence, this occurred when a calculation occurred that some officials who under investigation had some large amounts in Croatia and abroad in their accounts. That's why I'm saying that there's a big link between what's going on in Croatia and trying to create the impression of the ruling party that these proposals will make some changes, and they won't because it's simply not possible, the whole system has to change. The law is never the solution. One Sweden doesn't have such a law, and there's no corruption, or there's one that's much smaller. The law is not a guarantee for nothing. And what I wanted to propose to the promoters is two, three concrete things. It's primarily done that we don't create a body that has an investigative character, it doesn't make any sense. 2500 people will be covered by this law and now the commission should investigate all their assets, accounts, and the OIBs to compare whether they are or not. How many people should do that then in the commission and that... It's a nonstop thing because these people change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's 50 people who'll have to work day and night on that kind of data. It would be much better for the Commission to send an inquiry because we have the institutions of this state, with a list of assets reported by the tax administration official to confirm that this one has or does not have according to the OIB and that this one could or could not have obtained by his tax card in the past years how busy he was and how much he reported a certain income through the card. And to get the tax administration back then it's possible, it's realistic, it's reported, and if it's not, then the commission asks the officials to explain and see what's going on, and not that it's on the commission now to investigate what we institutions already have. We also have a tax administration, if it's a matter of money laundering, we also have an office to prevent money laundering. There are services that have to be done, which have had to be done so far. And if it's possible to say so, it would be better to relieve these people because it's impossible to expect them to do quality work. 2500 people must be supervised in this way by the service of at least 50, 100 people employed in the commission, and it will probably not be possible or will be possible to organise it in this way. And these provisions for me absolutely don't make sense because here I am saying that the official will have to give permission to control his bank account. But if he's gonna give it to his mother-in-law or his girlfriend like we just saw the case, he won't. So hidden money, the one who wants to do it will do it in the future. We should enable our institutions to prevent this from happening, not that the commission is involved. And that's what I think eventually, and it's going to kill the meaning of this law and choke the commission that we won't have, we're going to have a narrow throat, and we're not going to have any use for this commission, and we're going to only benefit in cases like I said in a couple of replicas, in whether we need someone to hang or not, as Mayor Ronko now was the case. And that there is a great intensity in this sense to put under control that commission is seen by a few things, one mandate of a five-year-old commission. If the mandate is now appointed, it extends to the term of office not to the next government but to those behind, that is one thing. Secondly, it is named this way as counterpart Stazic said, Malta does not make it impossible to choose it unless it has already been agreed on in advance, and is chosen as a secret vote and cannot be replaced. Look, there's no way this man's being removed from the commission. The term of office shall cease only in the event of death, on its own request, in the event of a permanent loss of capacity and if conditions are stopped for appointment, and these shall not be all the conditions laid down in Article 32 but only if it is no longer our citizen and if it joins a party. But if he loses his ability and if he's fined, but he has high moral qualities, ethical standards, and he acts like that, it's no longer a condition, and no, no. If he's doing bad, if someone has an objection to him, he can't be replaced, he can't be replaced. From this you can see very well, gentlemen, the intensity that you want to simply cement the matter through this commission. That's how he wants to put in five people now who will have five years of office and be immeasurable. But you can avoid that trap until the next reading. I would also suggest that these promoters include the 2/3 provision needed to select someone in the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. In that case, it will have to be an agreement not only now but also in a situation where another majority has appointed these people and we have one guarantee that a compromise will have to be made for members of that committee who will then not be members of the party. If you don't, you know how it is. Three times you've changed the law might happen to change it the fourth time. But I don't think that's the answer. Who's gonna change that you'll see. I don't think that's the answer. I think it would be a better solution to agree on a way that a high consensus must be around those members and I hope that it will be in another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67315	Thank you very much. We have one replica reported. Dear colleague Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67316	Thank you very much. You said your colleague Maras was proud of us now fighting corruption, and we shouldn't be proud of it because we have something to fight against. So we produced corruption, and we fight it successfully. You had a colleague Maras during the 2000 to 2003 fight against something. But unfortunately, you didn't have the tools for that fight. So you've also had tilt trains, procurement and fire trucks and 4 million euros spent on getting some tickets that never came into use and guarantees to Lenc and Rijeka Bank and Excelsior and you could fight anything. But you didn't have the tools because you didn't bring them for that fight. Of course we are proud because for four or five years we have been working on a legislative framework, to strengthen institutions that can now do so on their own and now do so. That's why it's not that you didn't have it. In fact, you've had some conflicts of interest. But unfortunately, they stayed in the air because they couldn't prove themselves further and prosecuted because there were no proper laws. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67317	Thank you. Replication response. A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67318	I do not believe that you are proud of this situation that is happening in Croatia because no one is proud or happy that a Croatian prime minister ended up where he ended up. This cannot be an honor to Croatia in any way. And that's why I say it's weird when you point it out as some comparative advantage of Croatia in this situation. But I'll tell you one other thing. You have now made your statement and in some way admitted to being masochists in HDZ, so if there was corruption in 2000 to 2003, how come you didn't punish her since 2004, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth. So it's not possible that you only want to punish the HDZ's Mrs. Lovrin? So don't be so masochistic. How come you haven't investigated these affairs in seven years that you've just listed? You either have a discount on SDP or you're masochists. I don't know! Make up your mind, Mrs. Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67319	Thank you. The Rules of Procedure said he was hurt, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67320	... Because the MP was saying something I didn't say at all. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] So I didn't say we were proud of the former Croatian prime minister in prison. No, it's because we've built mechanisms that we can fight against the acts of corruption effectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67321	Okay. My colleague Jelusic, you have waited patiently. Here you go. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67322	Yeah, who's waiting and waiting. Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government. It's hard after this debate that's been going on for a few hours to say something new, and on the other hand, I wouldn't want to skip something or I wouldn't want to repeat it. But on the other hand, I have to be as consistent as I am, so I'm gonna try to skip something, and I'm gonna stay just as consistent with what I'm trying to say. So, the Law on the Prevention of Interests is a bomb name, a bomb name. If it's the law and it's the kind of thing you'd talk about. Yes, the activity of preventing interest is important. But let's translate that into a simple dictionary. So we need a law or a solution that will prevent anyone who performs any kind of public activity from pleasing themselves to their own. When I tell my folks, I mean family and family and friends and acquaintances and even those he's not close to, but he can do it for some other reason. Is this law settled? This is what we need to talk about and see if we can pass such a law in this House. When we talk about seeing who he refers to first. I think that's where I think it should be spread in some things. There have been certain ways and words here today in the Parliament. In my opinion, we have people who are not officials in terms of how this law treats him but, for example, someone who is head of a department or a governing body that has more power and more opportunity to please someone than some mayor of a municipality whose budget is two million kuna. He can't do that because first of all he doesn't have the resources because he has a small budget, and on the other hand, in these small municipalities, you know what someone eats, let alone what kind of contract does. This does not mean that they should not be included, but should therefore be extended to all those exercising public authority, who can potentially benefit someone by exercising these public powers. In terms of this should be expanded, so this list of officials not in this way administratively only includes functions, but truly the true one who is in a position to please someone by doing their job, and this job is public intentions. On the other hand, some things are too broadly set up when we talk about family members, which the law treats, and these include brothers, sisters who usually have their own family. So to me, the family is the one who lives and lives with someone, so the other is the family, etc. Therefore, in that sense, clarifications may need to be made. When it comes to business entities that may potentially come because of officials who have shares in them or who have transferred shares, etc. I think these things should be placed as transparent as possible. So, you don't favor anyone, but nobody in advance how do I say disable or prevent them from entering a single game at all. Therefore, any legal entity should have the same chances for a competition in a public tender to work with any state body and body of local self-government. But to know that it's being published, that it's transparent and that it's a company, a craftsman or someone who has certain public powers, so let it be seen, so let's just control it, not look for other ways. And in the end, it's not the end, but I mean whatever law we pass and whatever we put in here, there's not much work to be done. We have a lot of good laws but they don't apply. It is in this committee whether it will apply that law as it should. As sure as it's suggested he won't be able to, because speaking under the firm depolitized, the depoliticalization of the commission is actually very, very loose feet. How one can be politically independent if elected to the Parliament and to the simple majority, so to the parliamentary majority. I don't know how much one who can be truly politically independent in this way, even in his election and later in his work. On the other hand, the mandate and counterpart Maras spoke about it five years ago. I agree with what my colleague Maras said. That is precisely why it was done, so to bridge the next mandate of the government, to now place people who will correspond to the current parliamentary majority, to endure the next four years and welcome the new government, hoping that after five years, the new majority will be as it is now, because it is clearly seen from the intensity of this law, because, as they were just said, these members of the commission on this law are practically irrevocable. So here it is, there were words that this is unconstitutional, etc., I am not an expert in constitutional law, but I can say from the aspect of parliamentary democracy that this is certainly not in the spirit of parliamentary democracy. Parliamentary democracy is not an ideal system, a political system, but the better one is not, the better one has not been invented, therefore we have been building it for 20 years, why are we questioning the foundations of parliamentary democracy? And the basis of parliamentary democracy is that whoever gets the citizens' trust has the majority, has the power, the one, the opposition to control it. The one who has authority is in a position above all to please someone, far more than the one who is in a position, so let's leave it to the opposition no matter who it is today, who it will be tomorrow that he will be who and thus perform his constitutional function, but also the function that enables him to system or be parliamentary democracy, it is to control the executive power. Let us therefore find such a solution that will indeed be in the function of preventing conflicts of interest, not in the function of this or that of the parliamentary majority, so that in a year's time this law is changed because someone else now has a majority and corrects someone's mistakes. So let there be representatives and political parties inside, let the opposition's representative be at the head of it no matter who the opposition is now or who it will be later on, so let the people who are out of public life, therefore the political independent, so let us come to a solution. And one more thing. It was just said that these cover about two and a half thousand officials who are subject to this law. If we spread more of that, there's probably going to be a need to expand even more, it's a lot not to say too many people. Let us also consider being a law, but more committees, a commission that will monitor what is happening to officials at the state level, a commission that will monitor certain officials at local level. Everyone for their own level has a commission based on the same powers, the same law, so if you want a single database. So in this way we really allow those in Zadar to control their local... who are in Zadar, but in Zagreb to control what is the state government. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, if the goal is really to make a correct law and if it has a parliamentary majority and a government of honorable intentions, I don't see any reason to make all of these, these quality proposals... come out of the question, agree, and come up with a law that we will, if necessary, and why not bring consensus to it if there are pure intentions. [[You don't understand.]] If they don't exist then you'll probably bring it to your parliamentary majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67323	Thank you, colleague Jelusic. And we've come to the final application for a hearing, which is a distinguished colleague of Denesh Shaw's. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67324	Thank you very much, Vice President, esteemed Secretary of State and Associates, colleagues and colleagues. The journal has passed the weather forecast and we have to finish, because we won't even be able to look at the third journal. When I read these materials, I read in my explanation, in this last sentence, that this law would require certain means. So then I tried to get to the data, given Article 8, where those officials are listed as how many people they are, and I did estimate roughly that it could be anywhere near 2,000, and now I'm hearing here perhaps more accurate data that it's 2 and a half thousand. And I'm going to shorten my actual discussion. Just two, three words, because more is said than I planned. And in this context, if this problem for so many people, and it may be more, we look at Articles 23, 25 and 26, then I'm afraid it will be very difficult for this commission and for that professional service to make these checks for all these Cavtat officials across Opatija to the White Manastir. I would rather be inclined not to this proposal than to what my colleague said earlier than to consider it if not in the county, but in the regions, because still people down on the ground know better their own to say so to political businessmen. They know, it will be difficult to be here in the centre, in the capital, in Zagreb to capture all of this together and realistically, because otherwise I am a little concerned here in Article 26 when this beautiful formulation is given here is applied, to determine the disproportionateness between the reported assets and income, because then according to this article 26, it is finally said that the competent state institutions will be informed. And that's where the whole story ends. The competent state institutions, the tax office, the USKOK, I don't know the inspections of a variety of procedures, and this may take up until the end of the term, possibly further. And that's why I would suggest, although it's very difficult, if you could set some kind of deadline there, that the deadline might be determined, then what is it about a certain official. And here in Article 30 where the election is talked about, about the general majority, and not the two-thirds, I think that here in the criteria it is indicated that these members of the commission, one of the conditions is that in the last five years they cannot be members of political parties. And it should give some kind of guarantee, and otherwise I think there's a mood and maybe there's no reason really not to be a two-thirds majority, to finally consider it. Thank you very much. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67325	Thank you very much, colleague. Here's the word, since we've exhausted all the requests for a hearing, the Honorable Secretary of State, in conclusion. Here you go, on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67326	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank first of all for this still some 3 and a half hours long and fruitful debate, and what I can say very briefly at half-nine, and that is that it was certainly a race of this law that was to establish a more effective mechanism of preventing conflicts of interest than what seems to be current legislation, and it seems to us that, when we recapture all discussions of committees, clubs, and the vast majority of MPs and supported, and conceptally supported. What is also not right to convince you, but it is quite certain and true that this law has no hidden intention whatsoever, that it is an expression of what has been tried to make this mechanism, an instrumentation as best and as implemented as possible. What could be chosen and what the discussions actually showed and showed that it could be selected between two concept models. Between this parliamentary and this independent body elected by Parliament. It seems to me that there were also questions as to whether it was all constitutionally legal, there were also difficult qualifications, insinuating the constitutional and legal order. Any question can be promoted from the constitutional and legal observations. I find it very difficult to qualify one and the other with an unconstitutional solution. This was the choice the government offered. What shows is that the key is the solution in everyone, that the key to the trust and implementation of this law is actually the quality of the commission that will be resolved in the process of countering conflicts of interest. The Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure held a lengthy debate on which the Government will account between 2 readings and see if this majority of the two-thirds elected by that body is actually making sure that there will be a better choice of real, independent experts who will then be able to guarantee the quality implementation of this law. We hope with all these supplements, otherwise I wouldn't want to get into all the grades of all these institutes whether the sanctions are too strong or too weak. There are both opinions. I just want to make sure this law doesn't say that this commission will take any mandates. It just doesn't have a mandate. And therefore it will be necessary between 2 readings to make another additional effort, to recapture this whole debate, well, well consider and in one, I hope the atmosphere of greater confidence, bring with as much consensus as possible this significant law. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67327	Thank you very much for your brief and clear explanation. I believe that's how it's gonna happen. This is what I'm finishing this point with. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll continue at 9.30 tomorrow as usual. The agenda point is 6. Final proposal of the Act confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities. I wish you, it's 12 o'clock vote tomorrow, have a good evening, have a good dinner and watch out for conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-03-0.u67328	We're going to vote on the debated agenda points. Please engage to determine the quorum. Please, colleagues and colleagues there. According to counters 92, according to this 86. We have a quorum. First Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, First Reading, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was concluded by the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, any objections, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. WITH 71 votes for, 26 abstentions and 1 against, the proposed conclusion was reached. Resume session. Discussion on - Final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities on the establishment and the privileges and immunities of the delegation of the Commission of the European Communities to the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 678. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and European Integration, you received reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Andrej Plenkovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Secretary of State.
