ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. With these short amendments to the bill, in fact, the Law on Sports of the SDP Club, so these small normative amendments want to make significant changes to the content of the Sport Act itself. In short, what it's about. We in Croatia have a great paradox, that our professional clubs are spinning huge funds and wherever huge financial resources are spinning, unfortunately there is one big emergency which then not only throws a large shadow and a mark on the sport itself but also on all those who give these public funds to associations. So, we want to decide that professional clubs are transformed into a stock society and not in the way that the opportunities just give so far the existing Sport Act. So these changes and additions would determine the mandatory reshaping of sports clubs with professional status. Also a deadline in which professional clubs are obliged to do this reshaping. So such clubs, professional clubs where huge funds are being rotated would be obliged to transform into a sports stock company within a certain deadline. To note, it is something that is generally known that amateur sport is the backbone of the sports activities of our citizens, so completely sports amateur associations make up more than 90% of the total registered sports clubs in the Republic of Croatia. According to the national classification of sports clubs and nevertheless, even though that is the case, these sports clubs receive at least the funding, which includes the largest number of citizens. Local self-government units for professional sports single-handedly allocate one-off assets while only minor funds are allocated to meet the sports activities of citizens. At the same time, because of lack of funds in their budgets, there is never enough funding for social programmes, for the construction of schools, kindergartens, homes for old and powerless, in general for public needs of citizens. Likewise, at the national level, citizens remain almost without all the benefits and benefits so far, new taxes have been introduced, giving up many capital investments. There's not enough resources for the social or health care or education. Therefore, very difficult economic opportunities in the country require saving, rational behaviour for all, and especially the extremely careful use of public funds. Now the chronic lack of financial resources to meet the essential state and public needs of which the state faced, but also units, many units of local self-government impose an urgent reform of the financing of professional sport in the Republic of Croatia. It is noteworthy, however, that even if economic opportunities are not such, that they are essentially troubles, that Croatia also needs a fairer distribution of public funds far more favourable in this area. In no way is it acceptable for a minority to spend almost all its resources on sports activities. So even elementary justice requires a different, fairer, more moral distribution of funds. What, in particular, should be achieved very quickly by this law? Therefore, the mandatory reshaping of every professional club into a sports stock society will primarily achieve greater transparency in the financing of professional sport, eliminate the potential, above all, the worst, worst kind of corruption, political corruption. And in such a situation, things are expressing the interests of potential investors in professional sports clubs that are interested primarily in the purpose of affirmation, i.e. to satisfy their legitimate interests, to advertise their products and services, to their company. There is therefore an excellent example that I do not now specify the particular name of the club, but which has just been transformed from society into a company and which, in a very short time, have achieved significant sports results in the basketball season and have fought to qualify for the European Cup. While some, too, once known clubs, are now known but only by name and not by game with large investment of public money failed not only to achieve such results, but also by those who satisfy, or who achieve perhaps some clubs from other leagues. On this principle, clubs in Europe operate mainly, and only a small number in some forms of mixed ownership. Therefore, savings will be achieved in the state budget and in the budget of the units of local self-government. More money will be given to amateur sports. A significantly larger number of citizens will make it easier to engage in sports activities. Mass amateur sport in a very short time can reach the level of health of citizens. There is no doubt that moderate sports activity is necessary for a man's psychophysical health. Sports activities are not only necessary for children and young people, but for adults and even for the oldest, or all age groups. The Western European countries that have dedicated themselves and who have devoted themselves to caring for their citizens in the direction of their involvement in sports activities, all show that this research shows a marked extension of life and better the health of their citizens. So that's what we want for our citizens. Here again, these changes have only a few articles, a few articles. I repeat here that the article first wants to determine that any newly created professional club can act only as a sports stock company. With the second provision, we want to achieve that so far the sports club association for the competition that the professional sports club must be transformed into a sports share society. And by third, we set a deadline for citizens' associations to transform into a professional club. The fourth article also sets out the date of entry into force. That's why we suggested urgency, the emergency procedure of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69171	Thank you. The Committee on Law, Family, Youth and Sports? A representative of the government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Perica Bukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69172	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to express my satisfaction that the agenda of the parliamentary debate is just a sport. I will use this opportunity on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community and my personal name once again highlighted and highlighted the importance and role of sports in society and state. What I also keep important to mention is that I am convinced that about the key problems in sports if it was devoted to a little more time there would be little difference in attitudes and opinions, and it gives me hope that sport still has a chance, an opportunity to survive, i.e. for survival, despite all the enormous financial and close ties to this and to the organisational problems that we are witnessing. The discussions on problems in sport are unfortunately not common, although very rarely we touch the Sport Act, and also any debate on the issue of sport, and it is precisely these that I am more saddened by this SDP proposal which is not even formally, and even less substantially brings nothing positive about sport, and does not help to improve the problems present at all levels of sport functioning. In addition to the first sentence that we can all agree on the need for rational behavior in sport, but also the principles of course in society everything else I think has missed the goal. The reform of the financing of professional sports in the Republic of Croatia is mentioned that at the same time there is no insight into the existing system of financing sports, athletes, clubs, alliances and individuals. All those worldwide recognition results, which we are proud of, and on the other hand, the amount of resources that is unfortunately less than in countries that are our direct competitors, which, of course, I mean first of all the countries with which we can compare ourselves most frequently from our environment. The SDP's proposal highlights, we have now heard enormous investment in sports by local self-government units, and is being compared with increased cost of life, lack of funds to build schools, kindergartens, etc. Except you'd... This quote was denied, because investment in sport is all but enormous, I must admit that I am really embarrassed by this mixing of pears and apples that once again shows that even at the stage of proposing changes to the Sport Act there is no least will or desire to get a little deeper into the heart of the problem and really try to understand what sport is, which means and what are the real problems in sport. [[You don't understand.]] I cannot be impressed that this proposal to amend the Sport Act should bear the name of the Proposal for a Football Act or more specifically about Dinam. I, although I have done it several times before, will once again emphasize the importance and role of sports. So there are few events that can run a nation at a time like these sports results, both individuals and our national selections. Hundreds of thousands of people are directly, millions indirectly related to sport. The sport takes up 20 percent of the media's space, both written and radio and TV stations. Is the importance of sports competitions and events to fill the hotel, restaurants, for the work of tourist agencies, for road, air and other transport? The largest impact on population health has a long-term and systematic sport. Sport is the best way to involve people with disabilities in real everyday life. In particular, young people play a huge role in education, self - confidence, and self - faith. Sports is also the best means to fight all addictions, tobacco, alcohol, drugs. Sports is also the best and most successful promotion of the city, the region, and especially the nation and state. What is the role of sports in health, tourism, economy, and the connection of top sports, means world-renowned and famous athletes, their results, and mass sports, children's sports and youth. All of this is more than serious arguments that sports problems need to be dealt with systematically, without prejudice, justified, I would even say scientifically. Namely, when you mention the need to professionalise sports, i.e. Sports clubs, etc., should however know that leaving clubs, sports and athletes to the market would mean without any exaggeration of the current abolition of most sports clubs. Except literally two, three clubs, one we've heard now, but other than two, three clubs that are toys of successful entrepreneurs, all other clubs would be shut down overnight. You also need to know, if you have children at home, and you see that in today's way of life the only possibility of playing sports, I would even say the only possible physical activity is almost and exclusively tied to working in clubs. If you go one step further, you will see that the number of children and young people in these clubs in general depends on the success of a particular sport, either in the club, or in the representative rank of the competition. I could give you a series of examples here that confirm this, this connection of thousands and thousands of young people engaged in sports, relative to the great successes of our clubs or teams. Also compared to the success of individuals in these sports of our greatest athletes who are very often a direct cause of children’s dealings with this particular sport. On the other hand, if we did a study that included these thousands of children, who are active in sports clubs and compared to children who are not engaged in sports, I think that only then would we learn the full importance of hundreds and hundreds of coaches, sports workers, who teach these young people life values, who grow up in a healthy environment, and who have seen the importance of work, effort and commitment from the very beginning, and everything about setting and achieving life goals. I don't want to politicize this subject, sport needs the consent of all of us. Let us give an opportunity to the National Sports Council, the body responsible for the proposals and suggestions related to the problems of sport, and in the debate I expect that we can help all together to get a place in the society that belongs to it and which it deserves with its results and importance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69173	Thank you. IDS representative club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69174	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The page 1 of this bill literally speaks, quoting a very difficult economic opportunity in the country requires saving, clear rational behaviour for all, and then listed further units of local self-government for professional sport single resources while small funds are allocated to meet the sports activities of citizens, etc., etc. Now I would say this, that this claim, that local self-government is enormously single for professional sport, most likely does not correspond to most units of local self-government. The fact is, what I agree with right now is that the money is gone. He'll be safe in the time he's in front of us, even less. They keep asking me if it makes sense, for example. that a football or handball is financed by HEP, Croatian water or a utility company, such as a water pipeline, Purity in a small town, etc. Why do they ask? So because people themselves notice that a HEP has a 100% monopoly in the state, so the question is, what are they going to do with advertising without talking about a single waterworks in a small town or something like that? But on the other hand, if they stop funding sports, it doesn't matter if it's amateur or professional, of this sport that's certainly achieved for a country that counts only 4.5 million inhabitants of incredibly beautiful things probably wouldn't be anything. The fact is also that probably even amateur sports without professional sport would be gone. But now there's a question of where in this poor... The state get the money? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whoever in this country has money except for, say, 5, 6 big companies, not to pick them up from Konzum, say, we have 2, 3 brewers who go into sponsoring that professional or I don't know what kind of sport. We have 2, 3 insurance companies that appear in sports financing, several of these telecommunications companies, 5, 6 banks and de facto except for those 30 companies in the Republic of Croatia you have no one who can finance and monitor sports. Well, then what's up? The sport is clearly followed by these public systems. And we don't have anything to paint, we can admit openly that it's a kind of extraction not to say money laundering and you all know it. But what would it mean to transform professional sports companies into stock companies? That would mean bankruptcy within the time limit of every professional club. Someone is going to say, so recently, Hajduk has transformed in this way, but we can see for ourselves what the results can actually be expected of this club and what it achieves. There is nothing different, let's say, with other football clubs in Croatia. Croatia is still unfortunately not Europe. Someone will say I don't know and Istria in 1861 if it hadn't taken over this Russian probably wouldn't be in the First League anymore, wouldn't be on that football market. I said financing clubs for public money is probably on the verge of legality. If they got into their business books and how it's done, the vast majority would end up at the USKOK. But now I am normal for amateurism, I am for clean bills in that professional sport, but once again I will say that d.d., means if clubs were organised as companies that would mean bankruptcy for at least 95, if not for all clubs in the Republic. But I agree that something must be done about that, too. Could we avoid that bankruptcy, would football clubs avoid it? Very difficult, you wouldn't. Could even less-paid handball clubs that also in charge of, say, Croatia avoid bankruptcy if organised through this form of commercial society? Probably wouldn't. Same with one basketball, same with water polo clubs, etc. The fact is also that money can most likely no longer be drawn for professional sport in the way it's gotten out of these public systems so far, and maybe it's this moment or an opportunity to go with an experiment like this. On the other hand, when we see that Croatia is centralized, it turns out that, apart from the Zagreb economy, Croatia is centralized, and other than the Zagreb clubs, no other city can seriously finance sport in its territory or region. Why do I mention Zagreb? Because there's the headquarters of all the major banks, mostly all the monopolies, all the major public systems, the biggest companies. Overall, today, out of 100% of the money spinning in Croatia, 60% is spinning in the city of Zagreb, where about 800,000 people live. There's a normal enthusiast, I'll do it for example. I don't know the bottles – the Buzet Trio that were two years ago and the European champions, but it also cost that bottle. It costs first of all the trio, i.e. Milan Pavlic, more specifically. If money were not available, the Buzet Tria bottlers would not be European champions, they would not be national champions, they would not be or would not play in the European League. And the bottle is bottled against one football, it's simply either water polo or handballs or basketball incomparably some size. But there's a town of 6 thousand people two years ago who had a European champion. As it costs a bottle so I said football, so it costs handball, athletics, skiing. Now, Kostelic has left perhaps one of the medals to compete in the European Cup because there or there lies money. So this is the example when, say, one private capital, when the enthusiasm of one man Milan Pavlic brings a small group, one city to the European champion. But if Milan didn't have the money, there wouldn't be any results of the trio. On the other hand, the city of Buzet, now I've spoken to the mayor, tell me how much you stand out for the trio says rudely little, between 25 and 30 thousand kuna. So, the city just doesn't stand out for one club like that, it stands out for other amateurs. But once again I say there's no money there wouldn't be any results. We can also look at what happened a month or two ago in this city in Zagreb with the financing of, say, Cibona, which also threatened to shut down, bankruptcy or not know how they were organised. If Bandic hadn't jumped in, if he hadn't found the funds probably from that club that may have achieved the biggest club results in history, I don't know Croatian sport today would have been anything. And may the Bukic who was at the head of the water polo kind not mind if I say that maybe Cibona has achieved the greatest sports results, maybe not but come on. I personally believe that the football team of the year is 98th, but now we're making flavors. For the end, we can try this d.d. But I'm not sure that's going to work, but I'm almost sure that during the night we'll send almost all the professional clubs into bankruptcy, and only then will that bankruptcy force local self-government, ministries, cities, municipalities, counties to redistribute funds for what many citizens in our small cities, municipalities, regions and so forth are going to be identified. All in all, at the very least, I am restrained by such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69175	Thank you. Two corrections, first Mr. Representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69176	Here's your thanks, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad that Mr. Cain repeated about my thinking about sports, but I have to correct one quote because I think that investing large companies in sports called money laundering is absolutely inappropriate even to say scandalous, I ask that these terms are not being used in the future because in no case can I agree to such a qualification. And as for Clubs Youth is the world's most trophy club with seven titles of Europe's champion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69177	Mr. Representative Daniel Srb.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69178	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Cain said in his presentation that there are only financial capacities in Zagreb that can finance top sports results and therefore only in Zagreb. In fact, although there are serious problems and it is certain that the distribution of these money is not good, but let's not forget Split has more Olympic medals than Zagreb, therefore there is one big imbalance between the means of spending and the total funds provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69179	Individual debate, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. You didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69180	The rules say that a mistake can be corrected if the judge finds it before...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69181	If the ball hasn't crossed half the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69182	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, good to have this debate, I see that they have already started from different Croatian parts to compete whose club has better success. Slowly, now I was going to go with Dalmatia, so I just wanted to say to Mr. Cain that Jugoplasty, or Split, was once more Europe's champion than Cibon. And Pop 84, and so... Free Dalmatia, so Croatia insurance, but now it can't go somewhere in the regional league and that's the problem of financing professional sports. So let me take a brief look at something Mr. Bukic said, and I'll try to systematicize. So the sport roughs up the sport we can split into four categories. The first category is school sport, which is what schools, states through education systems, through schools ensure children at that age that they are engaged in sports, for various reasons, some of which are recognised as talents and continue to play sports, some remain only sport at school and then remember and convince themselves of the memory. So one part of it certainly has its own educational line, of course, because then the children in the halls, on the playgrounds, are not on the street, and are less exposed to the dangers of negative adverse influences from the street. According to school sport, this amendment to the law doesn't speak. Another kind of sport, when we look at motives why people are engaged in sports can be recreational, that's what all citizens in their organization or organization of an informal group of friends make one, two, three, five, how many times they can use something that local self-government leaves them free, so playgrounds on which they don't have to pay three tracks, athletic trails etc., or society gets expensive, collect some money, pay the hall and go play naturally for their lizard, if they pay themselves then it's not at the expense of the state. So, even that kind of sport doesn't talk about this law. The third type is amateur sport, that is, when something more serious than recreational when organised clubs are held in organised competitions or in individual sports when a person is engaged in sports himself, but it is not his job to live on. He does something else or he's unemployed, unemployed, doesn't live on sports, maybe through some kind of help he manages to fix his budget, but basically he doesn't talk about that kind of sport either. And of course, it's the fourth professional sport, it's the kind of sport when athletes deal with some sport and live on it, they get paid, it's their only occupation and that's what this Law tells them about. We colleagues and colleagues would simply like order to be introduced into this area, in a way that funding is clear and transparent, that ownership or management of any other kind of associations, is also clear and transparent and most importantly that those who earn from it are paying taxes to the state. For this reason, I am somewhat sorry that the HDZ colleagues did not recognise our desire to fix the situation in the state budget by charging taxes among other things and by transferring them, because it really is not logical that someone who publicly boasts about the export of services worth a few dozen million euros to this "expension of services" did not pay a single kuna or a cent of the tax. However, when it is questioned, it is then that a qualification of Satan's continuation of large Serbian politics, etc. is obtained. And one of my sins was actually asking the prime minister how much Mr. Mamic paid his taxes on the transfers he boasted about. So there's one rule that's relevant to the functioning of this kind of sport, and that's roughly the following, investment is state or local, risk is state or local, success is common, and money is mine alone. This is how today works between the club Mr. Bukic mentioned and we want to change it. If something of something is possible to earn, if something brings income, then put it in a logical form, which is to know who owns it, that the owner has shares, that those shares are not on the market or are on the market and that the owner carries the risk of the club's business. If this is not possible to change form, the club becomes amateur, competes where you can compete, the name stays and, as one party in the previous elections would say, we move on until conditions are put in place again that the club can function normally. There are several things that I think are misunderstood in the debates of the predecessors. So, the question of the club's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy of the association. First of all, if the club is not allowed to go bankrupt and why companies are allowed to do so, I don't see why workers who work in companies who can't make money to pay would be in a better position than professionals, so they and athletes in clubs who can't pay, either. We have a case of a water polo club, here is Mr. Bukic, who left his players in debt, formed a new association with a new name, almost a new governance structure and continued to compete in the same competition rank as the previous legal sequence with the same name. And if the newspaper hadn't written about it, and if it hadn't been for those to whom the previous association had been obliged to rebel, they wouldn't have known about it. We have the case and the Dinamo Association which remained in debt to Igor Cvitanović and then reregistered, under another legal person continued the competition and the same thing again. What is happening in the Croatian Football Federation and the way of decision-making and governance has already become a common famous story, and this law does not speak of it, so I do not want to get out of the topic. If it happens that the club cannot settle its obligations and, as Mr. Cain said, goes bankrupt or goes bankrupt, and there are people who don't want that club to go bankrupt, let them buy the club's shares and keep working normally. So if it's the interest of local self-government to keep that club, let it go into possession transparently and clearly, buy the shares, and the club will function again normally. When the local self-government is no longer able to pay for it, then she'll come out. And who would pay for that club's funding, if there's no local self-government, if there's no sponsorship, if there's no state, so normally the club will stop working, that's why it's the right for everyone to invest in sports, but in a way that's transparent, which is somehow to call it normal and logical, not that what's happening to us right now is happening between us and Dinam. Therefore, the policy by which the investment would be state or local, success together, and only Mamic's money is unacceptable, and we want to change that. That's why these amendments to the law are, and we're surprised that the debate has spread to something that's not the subject of this law, but it's good to talk about sports. Some sports alliances of basketball and water polo, including the equal of ice hockey clubs, have found new forms of competition, compete in regional leagues with more or less success, with greater or less interest of sponsors or with greater or less interest in the audience. In football it is not possible yet, it is not even the time to mature there are its security aspects, but you can see that these clubs and these alliances have been looking for a way to sort of stay on the market, how to increase their quality of competition, how to increase audience interest and have succeeded. And all other forms that are acceptable should go that way. So that we have associations of citizens who make enormous incomes, whose management mode is neither clear nor transparent about how the congregations of these associations are formed, and that they still live at the expense of taxpayers legally, which is even more worrying because the government does not see the problem, such a situation should be changed and that is why we have encouraged this debate. The law is, although it is only two changes in the 4 articles in the first reading, we have no illusion that it will be referred to a second reading, i.e. I think the ruling majority will reject it but the problem remains. And now all we can ask ourselves is why does the problem stay? Who cares if someone who makes that money pays in the state budget? Perhaps the guests, Mr. Mamic, were at their general assemblies very gladly received, or perhaps those whom he financed not in the way of the state budget, but in the way in which the newspapers... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69183	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69184	I am correcting the quote of my colleagues, Bauk, who says that our HDZ colleagues did not recognize our desire to introduce order into sports and that the money from professional sports would cease to be poured into private pockets. The statement is not correct. The HDZ colleagues recognized that wish, and therefore they object to this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69185	Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69186	Thank you very much. Sir... I will, unlike you, speak of arguments. Well.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69187	You didn't give anything. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69188	So unfortunately, in his speech, my colleague Bauk confused a series of definitions, provisions that were defined in some other laws. So, when you talk about taxes and taxation, then you have to settle it through the Income Tax Act and if you read the Income Tax Act, then you would see that taxing the income of athletes in the Republic of Croatia is quite regulated. Another thing, if the General Tax Code didn't defend me, I'd tell you how much Dinamo and Hajduk paid last year for everything their players get as a payment. It's clearly regulated and defined by law, so you can't say it's not. The other thing is, you've touched another topic, and that's the problem with the manager's houses. They're defined by some other law. And if you wanted to solve this all you said then you should have changed three or four laws. I don't think it's good, and it's not going to get us anywhere, we're not going to seduce the order into sports. I think you've read the Income Tax Act then you'd see that you've already taken one big step. There's still a few things that need to be solved. Another thing, if we want to...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69189	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69190	Talk about taxation then you need to see how some other countries handled it where their clubs turn a few dozen a year...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69191	Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69192	Or more than 100 million euros, and then this kind of story you're telling just wouldn't have occurred to us if you were talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69193	Comrade Cain, you didn't pick up the tile. I've been watching you right now than you've raised later after you've already finished your speech. We're going to an individual debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Mr. Representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69194	Thank you very much, esteemed Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. As representatives of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, we received for this session of the Croatian Assembly of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, with the final proposal for a law submitted by the SDP Representatives Club to the Act of 11 October 2010 pursuant to Article 159. Participation in competitions, funding of sports associations, reshaping of sports associations into sports stock companies, I am thinking that it is very well solved by the existing Law on Sport of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted on 6 June 2006, and published in the "National Journal" 71/06. of 28 June 2006 As a former athlete, a sports worker, a member of the body of sports communities when it comes to funding sports at local level, I take the right to explain how sport is financed, the means are planned and set out for the needs of sport. Local self-government units of cities and counties shall adopt a proposal for a Community programme and financial plan for the following year at the meeting of their competent authorities, city and county sports communities and supply them to the competent authorities of cities and counties for consideration and adoption. The City Council and the County Assembly are considering the same and, within the limits of their capabilities, approve funds intended to support sports activities. After the Community’s financial plan has been adopted and the funds approved, which the sports associations will be in the public needs programme of cities and counties and by which means the competent authorities of the sports communities decide against representatives of sport associations and alliances, athletes and sports workers who are in the bodies of the sports communities and on the basis of adopted regulations and criteria in the allocation of those funds. I'm thinking that the allocation process for sport is legal and can't be more transparent. Here is the talk of one-offs that stand out at the local level for sport. I must say that cities and counties do not have the means to fully finance the needs of sport, but it is a small part of the overall needs of associations and sports shareholders, the allocation of funds to associations and sports. As for the reshaping of sports associations into sports stock companies, I would not add anything except to support the existing Sport Act, which was very well regulated. Opinions were expressed here that in sports, such as counties, cities and municipalities, enormous funds for professional sport have been allocated. We need to separate here recreation, amateur sport, non-amateur, semi-professional, professional and I don't know how it's regulated, I haven't been informed before writing this debate, how it's regulated in the City of Zagreb, and perhaps in the larger cities of Rijeka, Osijek, etc., Split, but I can say when it comes to local levels, for example. Here's my Ship-Posavina County with two cities of Slavonski Brod and Novi Gradiška and 26 municipalities, that what I said was the means planned for sport I can't believe that they end up for contracts of professional players in professional clubs. The local community should solve for me when it comes to electricity, water, heating, travel costs, quotations, obligations to categorized athletes, which is very important to train sports staff, for the needs of athletes and the most important thing that I always advocate, which is youth sport. In collective sports there are many categories of youth: beginners, pioneers, cadets, juniors, etc., that the local community cares for them, for the maintenance of buildings, for the construction of new buildings, whether it means covered buildings, for the halls, for the swimming pools, or for the open stadiums, etc., i.e. to create conditions for sports. My debate shows that I cannot support this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports, with the final proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69195	Thank you. Replications. Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69196	Clearly, when we talk about transfers, when we talk about taxes, taxes should be paid. And why say when Mr... The mention of Mamic would not pay taxes, why tax must be paid by every craftsman in this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I argue, it is at this point in this country, and here is the former finance minister, the problem of a system that enables individuals, not Mamic. The system has failed, and individuals normally use the system. It's the same as Thompson who got 500,000 euros. And insubordination is an act. If you got the money to pay the tax, if you knew it was from the black fund, then give it back. Why not on the other side of the bankruptcy? Because it's gonna end up like this. Debts will go to a state or local self-government that will be taken over by these companies now, by the new one, by clubs that will eventually end up in bankruptcy, the commitments will go towards local self-government, and after that will continue again, for example. "treasures" and so on. Of course I'm for clean bills, but in this poor country when everything is turned upside down, it's hard for something radical to change overnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69197	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69198	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, when it comes to professional clubs, no matter what level, which sport fellow Shucker has just said that they have paid their commitments to the state budget. And as far as cities, municipalities and counties are concerned, I think it's our job to support sports, but not in a way that we give money to illegal or any way in the budget pocket to these players. Our basic task is to do this alone here in my address and say that we support the sport of young people in these same clubs, and plus that the state supports school sport at all levels from primary, secondary to university. And it's our job to secure the infrastructure where all this is going to happen. I think it's a task of municipalities, cities and counties.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69199	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69200	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Djurdjevic, you have made very nice the order how it is done, how it is necessary to make funding at local level. The order and the programs and all the ways I think it's absolutely everything. But you also said one moment that it was said that at a local level single funds were being allocated for the needs of sport. That's incorrect. It's not happening. Every local environment stands out as much as it can, as much as it has money. And as you said nicely, the local environment is required to create conditions that these young people can engage in sports because sport has no alternative. Every young man performed in the right way through sports is an invaluable contribution. In this sense, here we are in my midst a short time ago, and we have built a sports hall that will improve the sports life of these young people in our midst. And surely these young people deserve to be involved in sports in every environment. So please nicely all the great sports, the football players have canceled on those country meadows and they certainly need to be created by conditions and qualified to create conditions for them to be able to deal with sport in quality and proper ways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69201	Mr. Representative Sima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69202	Well, apparently, my colleague Djurdjevic, Mr Milinkovic, and I don't live in the same country. I know we don't live in the same county and in the same town. I know your condition may be fine, but there's no need to generalize. It's not right to say that everything is as good as probably not all bad. I'll give you another example in my town as it seems. So you have a football sports club that brings together a hundred young people and something more. They gather there, have fun, and then there comes an ambitious political leadership that has the ambition to push that football club into the first league. And then this football club gets hit with a lot of money. There's an old, sleazy athlete playing out there somewhere. Then there are young athletes who have some pass on the football market, and then, since they can't be paid, they are employed in utility companies, etc. What do we have today? Today we have that the city is almost bankrupt, in part, a good part and due to a large investment of money in sports, or football club. On the other hand, we have this idea that we don't even have a football club anymore, or we have a football club, but it doesn't have its original function. That's exactly why we have to put order into sports. I'm not saying it's bad for us. But it's not good with me and on average in Croatia it's not good and there's a big mess in sports not just in football. We must therefore, in a certain way, prevent the funds that have been legally established from being poured into municipal equipment, therefore from communal compensation. From something else they pour into sport but not into a sport that brings together young people but into a sport that must be the achievement of some political or not knowing what ambitions of individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69203	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69204	Comrade Lucin and dear denominator, we're talking about the same thing. And I fully understood you from your address which is the message. We're thinking the same way. I can't believe that these funds that are set aside from the city no matter what level they're talking about end up where they shouldn't end up except for youth sports in those same clubs. But watch out, keeping one complex infrastructure sporty today is expensive not only cleaning and everything else. For example, an open stadium so-called A working community that cares and cares for him is really expensive. It's a lot of consumption when it comes to heating and all the other water, electricity, gas, telephones. Get a hold of that. But for that part, for that part and for the youth and what I said in my debate about training staff who will work, professional staff with these children for this means must be by me and that part of the funds must be provided by the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69205	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shima, I think you've been very honest in your debate. But I think you're not honest enough, not honest enough. Namely, you are the best to know and come from Slavonia, from a village where there was a sports club that was even a candidate for the first league. You know yourself if you're going to be honest to the end that this club lived on the political, political-directorial racketeering of companies and companies all over the Brod-Posavina County, so at the matches of that football club, it wasn't always water polo provided by a set of directors who were not to tell the political racket required to co-finance that club. That's how funding is said to be not good here. That kind of approach to sports isn't good. Maintaining a stadium that has already remained behind is indeed a problem for every local unit and needs to find the means to do so. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69207	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69208	When it comes to a company, a company will finance whether or not a sports association, whether it's an amateur or a professional sport, it signs a sponsorship agreement with that club. And if something's under the grain, it's not legal. And the one who signs the contract and singles out the funds when it comes to tax returns has certain benefits because he did it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69209	Mr. Representative Vedran Rozic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69210	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. If this Amendments and Supplements Act were to be adopted within a year, there would probably be no more competitions in handball, football or basketball, so I would only comment on a few articles from which it is visible. Article 2 of this proposal also states that a sports club is being changed, the competition association must be transformed into a sports share company if it is a professional sports club, within the meaning of Article 24 of this Act. Article 24 regulates the professional status of sports clubs. Professional status within the meaning of this law has that sport club which was established to carry out sport activities, participate in a sports competition, which has concluded contracts for professional playing with more than 50% registered athletes in senior competition, in relation to the number of athletes registered for the competition year, on the list run by the relevant national sports alliance, or if they meet the conditions for the professional status competition in accordance with the rules of the relevant national sports association, in the follow-up of the professional sports club. In accordance with Article 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall take into account the principles set out in the first subparagraph of Article 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in the second subparagraph of Article 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. Therefore, in its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has rightly indicated that prescribing the obligation to reshape all sports clubs, competition associations that are professional within the meaning of Article 24. The law on sport, and regardless of the sport in which these associations are competing, and regardless of how those sports clubs did not qualify for the launch of the bankruptcy procedure, has led to the disabling of competition activities. This proposal would include redesigning clubs competing in other sports with football, basketball and handball, only because they have a sufficient number of professional playing contracts, and in accordance with Article 24. Sports law. It should also be borne in mind that the possibility of organising sports clubs as sports stock companies was introduced only by the adoption of the Sport Law in 2006, which means that in the sport system there is a traditional legal form of association, which would completely disappear, and could lead to sports clubs and competition associations having to cease to exist, would be kicked out of the competition and because there were no interested investors, i.e. potential shareholders, and therefore the transformation failed. I would, too, in my presentation, look a little bit at club financing today in our country. There's a big problem with club financing. In this letter from the SDP club... He says political influence should be removed from the clubs. [[You don't understand.]] I think exactly the opposite, and that the local community and the county and the Government of the Republic of Croatia must make even more efforts through the ministries in order for these clubs to have as much funding as possible. The Government of the Republic of Croatia makes a lot of efforts, especially through funding through the Croatian Olympic Committee, which finances all programmes concerning European, world and world championships, and participation of our athletes in the Olympics. One big problem is that it would just through, which through one political action in one way also affect the banking system, and on large trade chains, to separate some of the funds for sport. It is well known in all countries, it must be so with us, because we see that the banks of certain societies achieve enormous profits and it is the order that part of their profits and leave them in those areas where they gain and achieve it, and sport is exactly one activity where a large number of young athletes are involved, and also when we look at the importance of clubs in presentation and how important it is for clubs to promote our country, I think it must be done. It is particularly important for small and young countries such as the Republic of Croatia the importance of sport, and the promotion that our country has through sports and athletes. It's also always kind of... at clubs, at sports clubs that in some way, I won't say that too much money is being spent, but not underestimating any donations to culture or other social activities, we need to know that through sports we have the biggest promotion, and on the other hand, which is also not negligible, all of our top athletes through their careers play other European clubs and not small funds that they get for their transfers, or through their annual contracts again invest in their own country. [[You don't understand.]] Finally, I would like to join the opinion of the Government sent to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sport Act with the final proposal for a law tabled by the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69211	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Stephen Heffer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69213	Goran, Heffer was each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69214	It happens a lot. A respected colleague said he thought politics should be more involved in the work of clubs. We will never agree there at least not in a way that politics affects the work of clubs as it has affected so far. We know that club administrations are always respected politicians, always entrepreneurs, mostly those who have come through politics and come up with some corporate property. However, it is simply unsustainable that most of these professional sports clubs today function as non-profit associations and make huge profits, and that the country has nothing. As far as young people are concerned in sports, this law is not directed against youth sports. Because young people go into the amateur section, they're not professionals. Units of local self-government through public needs will continue to finance certain clubs but if you look, you as former mayor know it quite well, if you have one professional club in your local self-government unit that club takes to say no more than half, two-thirds of all the funds, and the other 50 or 100 sports associations, clubs get crumbs. That's exactly what this law is about. So if something is obtained from society and ultimately it is placed in the form of a player's sales, if we're talking about football, then a world club should simply return a part of those funds that were originally public through tax. So they came through some sports school from the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69215	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69216	When I said politics here, I thought that politics first lays down rules through certain laws and regulations, and as far as profit draws are concerned, it's known by the law that citizens' associations, which is most of our clubs, and as a sports club as a sharer's society, there's also no profit draw, but that profit stays at the club. So politics must determine the rules of the game through legal regulations, but again I repeat to thousands and thousands of clubs we have in various sports and in one way when we would pass such a law, because we still need to know that professional sport is the one that draws the rest of the sport in the country. If you would accept a law like this, we would practically have total amateurism.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69217	And a replica of Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, a few months ago, as a Dinam fan, I was in the stadium at the Dinamo-PAOK game in the west tribune. I stopped the game. At the same time in that shed above the covered vault, the blankets covered just as were bankers from insurance companies, politicians and others. You said that out of getting these institutions financial and other directed, logically let's get something back, into the system there's the sports system. But it's only in the sports system. The profit that has been achieved has come from business with all citizens. Therefore, self-serving where it pleases would not be very good. And it was achieved as Mr. Maric said your party colleague in the last 8 years 222 billion kuna profits. That's 70 billion euros. Well, now I understand why blankets are on their feet, excuse me 30 billion euros. So now I understand why they're blankets, and here I am standing there and there's no problem and I'm gonna stand for Dinah again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69219	No blanket, yeah. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69220	So here I think you've just opened another problem, that when we look at our sports fields, especially football stadiums, we're like a country far below European standards and that society has to invest. And as for investments, right here we had a recent example of the 100th anniversary of the Croatian Football Club Hajduk and we saw how much that club meant for its fans. So clubs play a social role, that clubs play a very national role in raising our youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69221	In 10.40, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. In this bill I see one attempt to open a public debate on the state of sports, and above all in professional sport in Croatia where there are obviously problems both in functioning and in the financing system, and in this sense the opening of this problem in Croatia is absolutely welcome. We can't claim that everything is perfect, we can't claim that there are no failures anywhere and that nothing can be better. But when it comes to the situation in Croatian sport, what should we first define as a society, and what do I keep warning is what we as a society of sports even want? Do we just want to look forward to the top results of our athletes, their victories, or do we want the whole system that brings something to society? And the question is, of course, how would society organize to do that? I am sure that this debate and this proposal are aimed at providing amateur sports with more money, but I am afraid that the amateur athletes in this debate in the House will be deeply disappointed. When it comes to different activities in sport, from recreation, actively organised competition sport, and only national summits and election types, top sports leading world and Olympic medals and professional sports. So there are several completely different systems, but the fact is that in many of them there are problems. One is professional contracts held by football players, basketball players, handball players to whom this bill applies. dRugo is a question of the status of top athletes, who have to really invest their lives to get to the top score so the question is what can these people get from society and if we don't fix this system, the top results won't be. So it's about sports where you don't make enormous incomes, which you can't live on, but these people are all about sport, and sport can't bring them income. The defence ministry has taken a major step by providing a special status for several athletes on the Croatian Olympic Committee's proposal. It is a major change in our society but it is a system like many other countries, it was important before Croatia. I must remind this occasion that there has been a major change in Croatian sport in the last 20 years. Croatia won medals in basketball and tennis at the first Olympic Games, so that the last one would be athletics, gymnastics, shooting, tae kwan do, so a completely different structure of sports in which Croatia became the best in the world. It's these people who lead to top sports scores that have to have an organized system behind them if we want to win medals. I must say that the Croatian Olympic Committee in all this complicated system is still leading to the formation of what is finally and in the results, but we cannot be satisfied as a whole. I cannot be satisfied that Slovenia, which is half the size of Croatia, has the same number of Olympic medals won, has gold and Croatia does not. So there's something about us even in this system that shows great steps ahead is still wrong. But there is a shift, notices in fact that our national sport is moving forward, but I don't see those fundamental steps in society that need to be recognized at this point. When it comes to sports financing, there have been a lot of words here about large state-owned companies and companies that have had exceptional profits, exceptional revenues, and which in a certain way finance sport. When it comes to amateur sports, it would be extremely good if they, in part, funded those sports and individuals proposed by the Croatian Olympic Committee, which has a whole classification of athletes by categories. This should also be said, athletes are divided by the basis of their results which they achieve in categories defined by the Croatian Olympic Committee, and even belong to them by the basis of certain rights, opportunities, obtaining certain scholarships at local levels, etc. Thus, through one such arrangement of the system, it would allow those who need money, more income, more money, so that they could achieve better results. But when it comes to the local community, the funding of football clubs, but also some others, basketball, handballs mentioned here, the responsibility for the functioning of sports at local level is borne by the local community, so local politics. The question is, in fact, how will she behave, whether she will go towards the exceptional financing of the player's purchase to achieve some unrealistically belonging status, which her colleague Lucin spoke of, or will first of all provide for his young people living there, the possibility of sport and that the community comes to those results with their own young people, with their own children, with their own athletes who can actually be achieved in that environment. So it's a matter of responsibility and recognition of the problem at local level. And in that sense, it will depend on how this sport works in the local community. When it comes to sports in schools, I must say that I see the biggest problem in Croatian sport in general. I don't think the whole system is well-organized, there's no competition system, and worse yet, there's no interest above all in the people involved, who are in charge of it, in order to recognize certain talents, advise them and direct them towards sports clubs where they can actually achieve the very best results. That's what the Ministry needs to work on, and I think this would also be an opportunity for the Ministry to recognize the problem. With the desire to open up a broad public debate on the position of both professional sports and top-notch sports, I am observing this bill that I will be abstentioned because I am not sure how it would act primarily on professional sports clubs to which it applies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69223	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69224	Mr. Representative, I think we can even agree that the problem of sports financing is serious at this point and the political problem of the Republic of Croatia, particularly when it comes to the financing of sports by large state-owned public companies. For example from one HEP or Croatian Post Bank or Croatian Waters, etc. Now let's play the team, but I'm sure those 85% of the money meant for sports club sponsorship only gives Dinam, or Hajduk. Clubs from Zagreb, i.e. from Split. And this one HEP or INA, however, would be achieved in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, and I believe that some of that money in some proportion would have to be given to Rijeka and one Pula and the Križevci and Delnice, up Slavonski Brod, and Chazma and Koprivnica, and not to add any further. I agree with you why individual sports that have recently been carrying larger results than club sports would no longer be financed. I think that when it comes to these political companies I will call them Croatian Waters, Croatian Forests, HEP, INA etc., and money is being realized in the entire Republic that there should be far more sensitivity to the distribution of that money than in this case, the case with people who are headed by these companies or administrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69225	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69226	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Cain, I will once again define my position on this issue of funding from large state-owned companies who, for example, are financing sports by electricity systems such as our HEP. But they need to finance sport based on the Croatian Olympic Committee's proposal to assess who is real and where the money is most needed. By respecting one of these principles, we will ensure that the money comes to those who need it and who deserve it the most. And since it is the common funds of the state, the state manages these companies, then it is both the state institution and the Croatian Olympic Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69227	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you know, you've said a lot of things that I mostly agree with, and I certainly liked that thinking where you say you need to create conditions, that it's a long-term job, and that's what's important for every environment, and you've listed that question as a sponsor. Unfortunately, I can say that nowadays sponsors do not break up very much for sponsorship and that they are not very broad arms. But you also said that the local community is responsible for the functioning of the club at local level, and that is certainly necessary, but it is also necessary to say that these managers in these clubs are often played in that sport’s desire to achieve the results sometimes go into getting some players let’s say so, etc. And the point is what you said was that in this local environment we should insist on because we know best in our midst that domestic players play, that children of those smallest ages develop and play sports because that's what developing sports and sports spirit is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69229	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to accept what my colleague Srb said but I would stay at this local level, because I come from the local community myself, and I know how we run the sport policy at local level, and this is done by a large number of units of local self-government who are aware of their ability to finance the development of sports at local level, at the level of municipalities, at the level of cities where work with young people is preferred, where unprofessional sports is preferred, means amateurism and where is the first place to provide material conditions for even sports. I must say that this great job has been done in cities and municipalities right from the government level of the Republic of Croatia and the ministries due to the construction of a large number of sports halls in Croatia over the past few years. We know that dozens of sports halls have been built, we know that hundreds of millions of kunas have been invested, and that is one of the basic preconditions for insurance of terms of sport in those smallest municipalities to larger cities and units of local self-government. Of course, cities have followed this in line with their financial opportunities, and I am particularly pleased that in the long-term planning of pedagogical standards I saw that after this completion of the sports hall project, one such project is seriously considered at the level of the Republic of Croatia building school swimming pools. For us to build a swimming pool, especially on land where swimming conditions can be created, and we know that this is one of the best, most healthy, most productive sports at all one major priority to create conditions for young children, of course for adults, that after this great project of building sports halls we all go together and units of local and regional (regional) self-government and restoring ministry in the project of building sports pools throughout Croatia not only on the Adriatic and larger city centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69231	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69232	Thank you very much. My esteemed colleague, I absolutely agree with the fact that every elementary school needs to be provided by one sports hall. So it should be one system that needs to be developed in the long term because there are still extremely many schools without sports halls. But there's a new question opening up that may have hit a different area. Can Croatia provide one system of building as cheap and as many sports halls as possible, aesthetically acceptable in different parts of Croatia, and not to go towards extremely expensive and luxurious halls, perhaps impeccable, fantastic fitting into the environment and actually make one such drink 10 others and make it impossible for 10 other schools to remain without a hall. And it is also something to be done, so one system to ensure within as short a time as possible in all schools in Croatia that they have sports halls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69233	Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69234	Thank you very much. Well, I think at least from the discussion so far, that we agreed that sports aren't exactly ideal. I don't think it's very bad, though. Maybe the message that we're getting yesterday points to that. It is interesting for the president of the European Football Federation to meet with the prime minister alone. So he doesn't even want to meet her with two currents in the football league. Otherwise, if you don't know when such upheavals occur, then policy talks are attended by representatives of the warring currents. I don't know why, we'll probably know more tomorrow. But at the end of the day, it shows us what our sports are like. So, we're also digging up riots in football stadiums, we're digging up malfeasances, and in top sports bodies that should lead it, be an example, we've got violence and malfeasance and not to say anything more. So I think we should even start over. And the beginning would be, here today or tomorrow we'll talk about the depoliticization of the police, and here I am in favour of depolitizing sports. I've always been fascinated, I've been in politics for a long time, and I've always been fascinated by the need for politicians and sports clubs to drag politicians into their administrations. Look, if the system is transparent, if you know the rules, if you know how these clubs are financed, what the politicians are going to do there. There are two reasons and most often they're both with... One of the politicians needs them to provide them with some kind of funding, another of the politicians need it to promote and get votes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, you see, as soon as we have a situation like that and that kind of possibility, that's bad. Here, I advocate that we ban politicians from the municipality to the minister sitting in the administration of any sport because I don't take it as their charity, I take it a little differently based on unfortunately the bad experiences I have with it. Now you see, so if you have one association of nonprofit citizens, otherwise the most citizens' associations in Croatia have in sport, I think that 80 percent are actually in sport. I am now interested in how it is possible for you to have an association where, for example, children and younger adults pay by training or monthly 100 kuna so that they can train, while at the same time their role models and who are members of the same association are worth, for example, on the world or European market or the domestic market are worth tens and more millions of euros. Is that a logic? So we have a state situation that helps, the city is very helpful, the citizens are participating themselves, so they pay three times, and then someone here takes the money. I don't know why we can't have a situation like that in Australia, so now you have an Australian handball team coming to the world championship and paying travel expenses on its own. I'm caricating on purpose a little bit. Why it takes 50% of the members of a sports club or associations to sign a contract, a professional contract to be a professional club. Why can't we have some amateur club in the First Football League? So, I'm in favour of introducing order. I think you should go one step further, I don't know if we get to another reading, but hard given the thinking of most, but I'd like to hear from most of the once when they say no, okay no, but what then. Because if you say on our proposal doesn't mean that you think that's what we have is right. I think it's bad. We will continue to have riots at football stadiums, continue to have problems in sports and deal with sports daily with political bills. Two months ago, the story of the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs on Sports Fields, two months passed. That bill's been in Parliament for a month, the fourth week is pushed back. I thought the situation was alarming, obviously not. So, I don't know why she's back on the 16th item of the agenda, even though I don't mind because that law is very bad. To solve one problem, we'll create another 50 problems. So my message and that will end, if the parliamentary majority doesn't want to accept this, but as far as I've heard everyone out there don't think it's a good condition, so give as a parliamentary majority, like those who have in your hands executive authority suggest something to fix the situation. Because in my view everything that becomes more and solving the problem will be delayed so it will be harder. I don't think this solution with a certain modification necessarily carries with it what we could hear, shutting down a series of clubs. I don't see any reason to shut down. And let's draw that line between what has one recreational-health care function and I don't know what kind of function even with this professional one. No, it's inadmissible and it should be prescribed by law, so you can't have an only child of local self-government who invests a third of his budget and the budget of his utility companies in sports, so you can't have a unit of local self-government that has a bad road, no public lighting, and that he has two major league clubs or one first-line, and the second one is second-level. So we all know what a trip costs, not to say coaches, etc., etc. Now, you see, take from the smallest municipality, without talking about big cities, any club. You know what you'll see, you'll see next, that actually in that club is a large part of the people who do professional work. They used to run these clubs for some sort of compensation, so some kind of enthusiasm, but times changed. I don't mind, but let's give it a certain legal framework and I don't understand why it's being avoided. So I wouldn't want to say that the situation in this sphere doesn't want to be resolved and put in place so that it pleases some clubs, some managers. I don't want to think about it at all. But ultimately, that brings us to it, if we have bigger problems every day, we're going to have bigger problems, the thing doesn't want to be solved. Here I just think it's a very important space, I'm not going to talk like my colleagues about successes, etc., we all know that by the promotions that athletes mean to Croatia, but I think it's high time to seduce order into this space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69235	Thank you. Eight replicas. First Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69236	Well, we can say very simply, officials as well as supervisory boards shouldn't be in sports. However, a man is asking himself whether it is possible to depolitise sports at this time in this country. Here I read yesterday, not unfortunately here, one statement by Mr. Kulusic, who said there are 20 HDZ in the football alliance. Someone today recognizes these events at the HNS as a struggle within the HDZ. My proposal, I know that politics is everywhere in sport with financiers, so is Italy, so is Austria, throughout the European Union, I don't know how it is in Australia, it's even worse in Russia, but for the start of politics it would have to move away from the Croatian Football Federation and this duel between Markovic and Štimec. I wouldn't, and especially I shouldn't have to commit to anyone but we should opt for football. And I want to believe that just one message like this... if I'm not mistaken, today... to order President Kosor as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't arbitration because it's none of your business. But I agree that, in due course, we should also depolitize sport as it tries to depolitize some other public spheres.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69237	We need to depolitize politics. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69238	In fact, I would only answer from one aspect and that always burdens us when we talk about sports. We always have football in mind. It's kind of understandable because it's the most present, the most massive, etc. Even in this section, we might think about having different definitions or settings of sports. You see, fellow Cain, in 2002, I made a decision that police officials should not sit in football club administrations. I must tell you that I was surprised at how many interventions there were because a large number of these people were sitting at the football club administrations at the time. De facto there was no first-seller where he wasn't sitting, like, one or two cops. And they were even, say, some of the chiefs of police administrations were also presidents of the football clubs assembly. It's a disaster. Well, actually, it was a reflection of politics again. I agree with you, politicisation, or depoliticisation can be done in a very painless way, which is that it is not expected of politicians, mostly as I said, because of the fact that they are moving funds, and then they are using it for their promotion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69239	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69240	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucin, this definition of your depoliticalization of sports whatever it means and how we understand each other, so there are different understandings. But in any case, the fact is here today claims that you shouldn't and that there's no professionalism actually. He doesn't exist, and we all know there's big money going around in sports, especially football. Now, which is why politicians are sitting in football clubs' assemblies, it is quite clear that they secure money through public companies, sponsors, etc. They also gain a reputation for themselves or voters and a voting body. So, in the background and this Muppet show which is either Monty Payton's Flying Circus which is now here in Croatia on the pages of all media. So, Štimac-Marković Croatian Football Federation etc. Lies or squats politics. And one more thing. When it comes to sports facilities of local communities, etc. that no grand object should be built, then the least right about it has been spoken by a colleague of the Serbs whose party was going to kick ass in the Ossetian Hall of 850 million kunas, and it was made for 250 and opposed by the HDSSB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69241	Mr. Representative Ivo Scissor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69242	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Lucin, I have to tell you that I'm surprised to you that you've been mayor for this debate, and this when it comes to amateur sports, because you're saying that you should pull all the politicians, so mayors, commissioners, their deputies. That's exactly what you said from the management of these clubs, and on the other hand, you know that 90% of the budget of these clubs, especially football, agree that we think about football the most because it's the most massive, the most children, the youth in that football, and not only should we watch the first team there. So cities and municipalities take care of these clubs and finance these clubs. And not only that, but they also keep those stadiums, those battlefields to be in complete order with all the competitions that are held during the year. And I know a lot of my boardmates, but none of them are happy about it. But it just has to be there. Because if he's already giving money local self-government, then he's got to control some things that are going right. And it's my opinion that there's a lot going on right. And here you are extracting a negative example that is close to you or in your environment as a paradigm for everyone. And that's just not true. And the last ones who had to pull out of the management of these clubs that are in areas, which are not professional are just city structures, people from city administrations, mayors and mayors. They're the last ones. And as for professionalism, I don't know, I don't have a solution. We have solutions from the European Union, but maybe it's a good thing what Hajduk did, maybe it's a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69243	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69244	How can I tell you that? So I didn't draw this conclusion from the recent events two years ago in Trogir, but it's been my attitude since I was mayor. I think I'm the only mayor who refused to sit in everything at any sports club. So, if you, on the basis of the programme, set goals, plan resources in the budget, do not see what you as mayor or any other need to sit there and control those funds. At the end of the year, we go to see the program, the goals. You won't get the money for next year. I don't know how the mayor has time to sit down. That logic would have to sit in every cultural and artistic society I don't think I'm talking about companies. Look, we're passing a law on the following, so it's not good for officials to sit on boards. De facto, we're also responsible for this country's money, and we can't sit on those boards. Now, by the logic of sports, you think we should sit down. It's just everything you've said that makes an argument for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69245	Mr. Representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69246	Your Honor, Mr. President, well, here's the thing, I really need to touch it. I don't want to repeat now what I was saying in the introduction on behalf of the club about the importance of sports and the importance of clubs. First of all, as the Locomotive sport that we have today and compared to those young people who deal with sports, etc. I really wish football wasn't all we'd discuss. Football has its status, of course, and a place with a long respect, but I think we have other sports and athletes to think about and pay attention to. As for politicians and businessmen in clubs in alliances, of course, it would be ideal if we had one system of financing sports that was not left to the individual. We're not happy with the sports with the solutions that are today, they're not ideal. We have problems of course with this crisis that these problems are even bigger. However, politicians and people who help finance and function clubs are mostly not going to talk about football, I talk about other sports against my will, but it is in some way their obligation in relation to the functions they perform to help finance these clubs and that from this position they bring in a certain amount of funds that and directly in participating in club administrations control how these funds are spent, how the club works and ultimately they are the ones who rarely participate and in the drawn goals of the clubs bought from the players, in which they function in relation to the proposed budgets etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69247	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69248	There is, of course, an initiative from the National Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69249	Thank you very much, sir. It's like in water polo, when that trumpet starts. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69250	Comrade Bukic, I think you are the exception that confirms the rule, you must be in sport. You as a former athlete, now let's not talk about it, I think you can have something in that sport. But you mentioned sponsorship, see, that's a special problem. Why? Because in Croatia sponsorship companies are not conditioned by some market interest or marketing interest of a company. ... Yeah, yeah, it's legal. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let me finish. You know how that's defined? It's defined when a minister calls a company, a big firm, and asks to give so much money. Or even prime minister of the government. But we don't want to talk about it, and we could do it for a long time. And there's a problem you know. I'd like those sponsorships to go on the basis of the market, where the company has an interest, not that politics does its part again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69251	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69252	Thank you very much. Comrade Lucin, you are otherwise known as the advocate of depoliticalization of everything in Croatian society, and so is sports, which I am not surprised at at all because as a party you have ruined the Cibon basketball club, and now it is best to run away from it and not bear any responsibility. But I didn't answer for the replica about it, but in that segment when you said you were against being young, so children and young people pay 100 kuna for training and sports, and that in the same some sports clubs, the players of the first team have a market value that is great. I would tell you one other thing, if those who have achieved such a market value on the world or European market had passed the same school they paid for, that would be fine. I advocate that everyone's work be paid, as well as for quality and professional work with children and young people. And in this respect, I will give you an example of my town of Slavonski Brod in which more than 3,000 and 400 children and young people are included in sports programmes, sports schools, which pays the city from its budget, pays leaders, sports halls, both owned by the city and those owned by primary and secondary schools, are used for that purpose. And in any case, I disagree with the fact that we have few sports halls. We have enough sports halls in the Republic of Croatia, only on every mayor, chief, so if you want the mayor, because the mayors are responsible for high school halls, they should be made available for sports and sport of children and young people, and this is the best basis and the best basis for healthy development and education of young generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69253	Mr. Representative Goran Heffer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Reverend Lucin, here's from your debate, but also later replicas, to be honest, I finally found out who ruined Cibona. Look, I didn't know that until this previous replica. It's about, of course, we're all talking about professional sports today, but it's all about football, and it's natural. The biggest money is turned into football, tens of millions of euros are individual transfers, but at the same time we look at football and some unloved scenes from various boasts, arrogance, and even insolence, etc., to these ugly events where the struggle for power in the football alliance is obvious for the reason that there are some material reasons. But you have confirmed in your discussion what needs to be consistently pointed out, which is that this bill provides order in the field of professional sports. If we're talking about these other elements, they simply don't touch any part of this law, so they don't even touch amateur sports, they don't touch school sports, and they insist on this story about various activities in youth sport, in school, etc. He's trying to cloud the whole story. It is simply that those who make certain revenues from sports should pay taxes or in any way, so through contributions and through the rest return the part they need to pay back to the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69255	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69256	I agree with my colleague Heffer about football, and I think the football lobby in Croatia is one of the strongest lobbys. How do we interpret that without a problem some kind of record that shouldn't be verified is verified in the city office? How do we interpret that, say, the minister of education and science says that someone is in conflict of interest and is directing the football alliance to solve it, and those of the football alliance say it is not in accordance with the UEFA law and rules. It's obviously a very powerful lobby.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69257	Mr. Representative Drago Bodakosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69258	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Lucin, I think it's the first and most basic finding to be said that this law is one of the attempts to introduce order in professional sports, as you mentioned. However, the question arises who is the one who incessantly introduces a mess in that sport. Is that, was that from football where the money is, or to others, I think your finding is that politicians are the ones who are present here very good. I think the presence of politicians has always been on the boards of clubs and the former state, especially today. But then it was also a habit and a custom to come to a first function in the city automatically meant getting into the administration of a club, usually it was a football club. However, the funds were not present in many cities at the time, and it was because of this politician who could mix less, or had fewer opportunities and needs even though it was known for certain affairs before the war of certain politicians, especially in football not to name them now. Today, however, it is even more present. Politicians' pressures on city business directors are very high, they're present, they're permanent. It goes from banal to buying tickets to a game, say, a city firm where you need to buy 150 tickets, and from that, the company has 100 workers, not to say 90 workers. These are all the conditions that are present and that need to be resolved safely, so this law tries them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69259	Thank you. I still wrote down one replicator, but I wrote so illiterately that I couldn't decrypt it so that whoever it was should call. Who answered the line yet? Zvonimir Mršić, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69260	So, my colleague Lucin, I agree with you in part about getting out of sports because there are some sports branches that you can't even get out of these sports because there's just no politician in there. For example, in water polo, swimming, table tennis, athletics, chess in all the smaller, so-called. "smaller sports" or small sports have no politicians. You only have politicians in this so-called. "big sports", sports that are terribly important, like football. Now, there's a lot of politicians out there. So here in my county you have, only the politicians of the 2 parties pushed into the County Football Federation and they're trying to manage my county's football alliance, which I don't see also contributing to these sports clubs from the budget. Because let's just say my county only one million kuna stands out for all sports, but the mayor is a delegate in the Croatian Football Federation and he represents all those football players and all the clubs that compete and he will decide then on who he is and who is not the president of the Football Federation. So, if you're getting money, if you're a sponsor, if you're providing funding for a particular sport, then you should definitely participate in that, where public money isn't getting money because public money is being transferred to clubs through the Sports Associations Community. Not to be transferred by mayors, mayors and mayors, but by the Associations of Sports Associations should set out the criteria for financing public needs in sport. So there's no need to sit in the management bodies of those same or some clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69261	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69262	Well, I agree with you, we were actually witnesses now that the representatives and the Assembly of the Football Federation were elected. Well, those were stronger campaigns and lobbyings than when the elections were for the Parliament. It is obviously more cost-effective to sit in the Assembly of the Football Federation and choose some representatives there and I don't know what to do but in the Croatian Parliament. So you had a situation where, from one county, two delegations would come from a football county alliance, and three hours each would determine who represented which delegation. However, I think that politics should still be thrown out of all sports and even from the sport where it is not there because it is easy when the sport becomes tomorrow or when there is some hope in that sport that some politician will enter. Maybe around politics when we are, maybe politics should take advantage of the opportunity while in sport to define the relationship between these associations and the use of football stadiums, or sports facilities. That's another big problem, actually, where big taxpayers get their money out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69263	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Petar Selem, called a committee meeting for today at 13:30 in the hall "Stepan Radic". On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Representative Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69264	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, after two hours of debate, we've only just reached half the fellow MPs who reported for individual debate. A number of replicas on both sides, on all three sides of the hall, show that the theme of sport is the topic that always arouses increased interest and increased interest in representatives and the public. And it's not said for nothing that even though it's only one of the most important side sports in the world. And sometimes things like that agree to become the most important, not just the side. Given the scope of the debate that has begun, I will, on behalf of the motionor, read the whole bill to actually see what the basic meaning of these changes was. But it is good that in this debate it has spread to the entire sport problem. So, in the first article of these changes, it says that a professional sports club is founded as a sports stock company. The second says that the sports club must be transformed into a sports stock company within the time limit, that it must be transformed into a sports stock company. The third article states that it must be within a year. And the fourth article says that the law takes effect on the eighth day of the People's Newspaper. So it's a proposal to amend these laws, and this debate shows actually how much it took to open the topic of sport that the most representative body in the country says something about it. There are several speakers who have touched the role of politicians, or representatives of any state government, either local authorities in the authorities of sports associations. I personally don't see too much of a problem, I can only see in it if that influence is negative. So, if the presence of politicians in sports club administrations is a front for something other than, of course, that contribution can be constructive, then let them respond to their voters whether they should have done it or should have dealt with something else that is more important to that community. Of course, they have received a mandate from the citizens and the mandate will be returned to the citizens when the deadline for their election expires. If the citizens are satisfied they will choose them again, if the citizens are not satisfied they will not choose again. And in this sense, we can say that it is good that some city structures, as in the case of Trogir, have been given the opportunity to show incompetence in the case of a football club and to see realistically the possibilities of this city and those units of local self-government. The only problem is that someone else has to pay afterwards, and the problem is that the club then had to be transferred to the lowest level of competition, but if it succeeds in the field to go back to where it was, so to the second league, then it would be a few years break and nothing else. In addition, several years ago, there was a Fiorentine case which also caused poor governance to go bankrupt, went to the fourth league and now returned to the European Summit. So, once again, I want to say why companies are working on the cohesive work of workers who do or do not make their incomes can go bankrupt and when it comes to the bankruptcy of sports clubs, it's not heretical that it can't even be mentioned. If there are interested parties to avoid bankruptcy, then they will report and engage in ownership structure, try to lead the club transparently because they know who owns it and know who answers, and if that club can survive, it will continue to function. If the one who came can't lead him so he can function, and if there's no one after that to take him over, then there's no more logical thing than that club to go bankrupt. Who will finance it if it is not financed by the owners or if the units of local self-government of the state do not want to finance it through that form of governance. After all, in Croatia we already have a case of reshaping a club with a great tradition, a few days ago it celebrated the 100th annual, where it is now known who owns, who corresponds, it is known about how it is managed, and whatever we think of the mayor of Split is still responsible at the moment because the town of Split is the majority owner of Hajduk, that this club works. Not only that, he must be responsible for the functioning of a club that is very important to the citizens not only of Split but also of the wider need to listen to the fact that fans of which most of his voters think, so in this way the citizens, or fans, or Torcida, have also gained more influence in the management of the club than any other group of fans would have, in case the club remained an association like the Dinam case. The moment the city of Split decides to get rid of the shares, sell them or otherwise, an adequate debate will be held on the representative body, again transparently, again publicly, so someone may win or lose the elections, perhaps, I don't think it will be a key criterion for which someone would vote for or against that city administration, but it may be, but it is further transparent, it is known who manages, knows who answers and knows who can act on who's responding. In the case of other clubs, where simply these kinds of managements are gone we are staying in some kind of air-free space of phantom associations, congregations, phantom governance structures where instead of clubs being eternal executive presidents, they become eternal. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the aim of this Law is to introduce order, transparency and increase revenue from the state or local budget. Of the increased revenues, there may be more money left for sports associations, amateurs, recreational, school or that part of professional clubs regarding younger categories that are not professional and we think this is a good proposal. Of course, the next time we hear criticism that we are not proposing anything but just criticizing, we will be very happy to return this and some other draft laws on the agenda. And I want to say, after two hours of debate, no one has touched the 2000 coalition government yet. In 2003, it wasn't much, personally I think she missed the incendiary, in sports, a little bit fixed up, I hope that mistake won't happen again. At the time Mr. Shuker was elected representative of the Croatian Basketball Federation, Mr. Mateša became president of the Croatian Olympic Committee and this was proof of the depoliticalization of sport. I am for any depolitical if it removes the negative influence of politicians from any segment, but I do not accept the fact and claim that all politicians have bad influence and bad intentions, therefore, I am not in favour of depolicing everything but I am in a transparent and responsible position to manage what citizens earn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69265	We're continuing an individual debate. Please, you have to get up, you can't tell me if you saw and didn't, you have to get up and say, the three of us are sitting here, you haven't seen. I can't see you over, don't get involved, you'll get, you'll sit here and you'll talk. Let's correct the incorrect quote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69266	Now that can only be a problem. Only now will the mayor of Split become responsible for the club, and only now will the city hit this lobby around Hajduk. And the mayor of Split, who now sells his own land, I don't know if I should, then won't give city hall to Hajduk and that gentlemen may be a problem. I know that in Istria it is almost impossible for some system to finance outside of a public, professional club, and I am sure that economic opportunities are better than in Split because no one will give their money for sport, but they want to say for jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69267	Thank you. Now, you've introduced a new category into our business, and that's a problem with things, not a correction, it wasn't a correction. We continue with an individual debate, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69268	So 90% of the total sports activities in Croatia take place in sports amateurism, and 90% of the money revolves in professional sport. It's football, mostly. Here, the last bitter struggle that takes place for the head of the HNS, what's that for? Because they both love football, you don't know which one anymore. For the money, gentlemen. It's a position that allows money control in professional football. Now, what do we want? Do we want the order or do we want the mess? This bill seeks to bring order into professional sport. Huge public money is poured into sports companies that are citizens' associations, and hence the huge public money is poured into private pockets. A fellow Shuker says athletes pay taxes on their profits. And that's right. The athletes do. Do clubs that are citizens' associations pay taxes on players' transfers? No, because they're in citizens' associations, and there's a huge amount of money going around, tens of millions of euros. The players are sold as racing horses, and the state has no use for these money transfers. Is that why he's proposing this law? To enable control and taxation and such transfers. My colleague, Srb, had a very inspired discussion and I fully support what he said. 90% of sports activities take place in amateur sports, so in school sports, recreational sports and amateur sports. That should be our concern, that these 90% of the money that is being spent in professional sports there, that children have a place to play football, to build swimming pools, not grand halls that will serve as monuments to the mayors whose mandates are raised, that boys where they have a hack, basketball small playgrounds, halls closed terrains, to encourage these governments and to allow them to have a place to play, to have a place to play sports. Once there was a sports society or I don't know what it was called Partizan what I could do to you, it was called Partizan and through this Partizan I don't remember the Croatian Falcon I know that existed before that, it was long ago when it was founded, it was long ago but through such societies, through such associations young people were engaged in sports. So what's our goal now? I think our goal should be to channel this 90% of the money there in community service sport. Why does a club have to exist if it doesn't have interested investors? So if he can't exist as a sports stock company. Why don't you go bankrupt? Well, God's people went bankrupt yesterday, Vibrobeton. 130 workers are out of work. I of those who refuse this law have not heard that anyone mentioned it but is calling it a football club could go bankrupt if this law is accepted. Well, then, let him go. Well, it's better to go bankrupt than to spend the social money he spends today, because he's registered as an association of citizens. Can this social money be used more usefully? Why wouldn't the local community fund that money, for example? Public works like Mršić did in Koprivnica, public money, so let's at least cut this creepy unemployment a little bit so we can help these people who are without their own fault, because they have the government they have, my God they chose her, they've lost their jobs. So why do you now force yourself so much that that money stays right there in those just-so-registered sports clubs and that it spins there and that individuals get richer instead of using it more usefully? I'm worried about the government's position and the parliamentary majority on the one hand, and on the other hand, it's worrying because look, we all see that this public money is leaking. We all see that he leaks even in a legal way, because now he's so legal. They can be citizens' associations, they can do business under the law. We all see that that's wrong, and we refuse to do anything to fix it. I can understand that someone doesn't understand the problem, that I don't see it, that I can understand it. I can also understand that someone sees the problem, and they don't know how to solve it, because they just don't know. It's not his fault he doesn't know. But I can't understand that the problem can be seen, that there's a problem, that someone offers you a solution to that problem, and that you reject it. Here's what I can't understand. I don't know what it's motivated you to do, unless you really insist on keeping this mess, unless you really insist that you care about something, even though I don't understand why, I really don't understand, that this money public money is being poured into our private pockets in this way, that we're left with enough money for amateur sports, for school sports, for recreational sports, to rub our necks with a fat goose and to support almost crime in these professional sports clubs, first of all in football. I beg you to consider your position. This isn't political law, this isn't ideological law. You have no reason, but no logical reason not to accept it. Not at all. Let's do our best together, since we're offering you a solution. Let us together make this effort to fix this situation on behalf of the children and who should play, who should have their pools, our playgrounds, on their behalf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69269	Thank you. We first have a correction to the incorrect assumption. Your Honor, Agent Ivan Shuker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69270	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Stazic, with one part of your debate, can agree, but it is incorrect to pay tens of millions and not to pay taxes for the simple reason. In the transfer of one player you have that part, let's take these of ours that went outside. You have one piece that gets the player, one that gets the manager and the damages the club gets. That compensation sits on the gyro budget of the club, no matter what kind of organisational form it was. Any payment from that gyro-account if the service is paid VAT, if the personal payment has to be paid income tax. If you know of any case that the money has been paid, that no tax is paid I publicly invite you to report it to the tax administration and make sure that the tax is paid. I'm calling you publicly if you know what case.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69271	Thank you. ... No benching. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's go now, we've got four replicas. First is Honorable Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69272	Mr Matesha, today president of the Olympic Committee, tomorrow most likely head of Croatian Television, the day before yesterday the former HDZ prime minister fought that those 2% of the company's revenues could go to finance various luxuriant activities, from sports, humanitarian associations, events, etc. And that those 2% won't be taxed. The law was supposed to be the key to the survival of sport itself, unfortunately the money is getting smaller and smaller. And how is it financed? Rule number one, give me a job and I'll finance something. Rule number two, money goes from local self-government, state, public systems to the dictatorship of people in politics and rule three, without money like there's not a lot of love anymore, there's no sport. There is no success in sports without money, and in Croatia as I used to say, in 2011, money can be provided by 5-6 large companies, public systems, 5-6 banks, 2-3 telecoms and normal politics. And now you're asking a matter of priorities. Which is a priority, whether it's a sport or they're jobs. I claim that policy number one in this country must be with the social community, clearly when the country is in a job situation. And it should be a debate of all the debates and then we can talk about sports and skiing and diving and swimming or I don't know what not, but I know that the heart always says football, but until we open the question of all the questions, and these are jobs certainly not even the opportunity in sports will change in due course, but will generally be like this under the table that professional sport and finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69273	Thank you very much. We have a further replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69274	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazić, I agree with you that it is really clear to all of us, and especially to us that the situation in sport is indeed a disaster and that it should be taken care of. The question is how do you do it? Mr. Shucker's replicated you in terms of possible tax options to make it a matter of order through tax. However, it is true that 90% of the money revolves in sport, that that is exactly what has resulted in numerous affairs mainly in football. You said amateur sports, you said Partizan. Today again, there is a Croatian Falcon, so I thought you'd mention the Croatian Falcon, which is a pandan for this Partizan that existed in yours and here it is in my time. And you also supported Mr. Serbs' debate regarding the construction of functional halls, not grandiose objects, although I must again point out that Serbian counterparts and his president were just thinking about a grand hall of 845 million kunas where they wanted to darken as much as 500 million kunas in Osijek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69275	Do you want a colleague of the Stazic? No, I don't. Representative Mršić, replica. Can't be a colleague because this was a replica, a correction you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69276	So, fellow Stazić, you have rightly asked a question or a dilemma about allocating public funds because, for example, we are in the deepest crisis in Croatia's history today and the question arises where in the most efficient way to locate public funds to improve the exit from the crisis. Now, you have a prospective high school kid who's also a good football player. Immediately, several clubs will compete for him, make a deal with him, give him a contract with food, scholarships, and I don't know what. On the other hand, you have a high-school genius who's great at math, in electrical engineering, in something third, no one's gonna turn their heads for him. Today is much better or much more than you can earn if you, for example, play football in another league than if you are a high school teacher or a university professor. Now imagine what could happen to Croatia well if only one part of the funds invested today in professional sports invested in student and student scholarships. Imagine what might happen if companies that give tens of millions of kunas as sponsorships in professional sport, I say in professional, not amateur, professional sport, could only invest one piece of it in the scholarship of students in Croatia. What could happen if we had contracts with those prospective students or university professors and sent them to a specialization abroad...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69277	Thank you. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69278	And with the contracts, we're going back to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69279	Replication response, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69280	Dear Mršić, I think the task of each and every one of us on such occasions as today rule in Croatia is to take care of the maximum amount of public money, where this public money is directed and how it is spent. We can't play Noah's birds, we can't stick our heads in the sand and talk, and now, the opposition is offering some kind of proposal, because the opposition is offering it, we're not even going to deal with it, we're going to reject it. And that is exactly what the opposition is offering, to direct public money to a more quality, smarter, more useful for the benefit of the citizens of this country. You're talking about student and student scholarships. Yeah, he can go there, he can go to public works like you did, he can build schools, he can let's go if that's it, let's say it's sports money. Let's get him to that amateur sport. But let's just not let it be the way it is, because then we're irresponsible. Because then we don't care. And listen, if we really have to wait for this kind of thing to go to elections, so that the power can change, that this can be arranged in a more reasonable way, and we'll wait. What can we do?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69281	Everyone in their area must first, and you in Zagreb should have arranged for Dinamo first. But I see you've arranged it nicely. Comrade Heffer, here's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69282	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Stazic, you mentioned Vibrobeton. Yes, unfortunately, one of the companies, the manufacturing companies, came into bankruptcy yesterday. Of course, it's going to go deeper than it is. But I don't know if you know there's a women's volleyball club called Vibrobeton in '98. He got into the first league. 2005 was the best sports club in Vukovar-Srijem County in women's etc. So there's a connection to such things and sports. But I'm glad you asked a direct question and got an answer whether clubs pay taxes on players' transfers and get an answer no. Does it matter? You've been waving your head. Okay, now here's the correction. The fact is next. Citizens think, here I have a survey conducted by the GFK which is one of the relevant institutions to say, i.e. doing research where the direct question of what citizens think about the need to introduce a tax on footballers' transfer is 74% said that tax payments should be mandatory, and only 5% are against it. So, citizens think there's a need for one of these laws. And this law is proposed in terms of introducing order in this professional part, because only by introducing such a form of sports clubs can it be achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69283	Thank you, colleague Heffer. Reply to the replica of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69284	Here, I'm going to use this answer to explain something. Taxes are usually paid for every transaction in Croatia. There is no special tax for the transaction of players. Well, you pay VAT when you spend it on an account. So I pay the VAT when I get paid on my own account, and when I buy anything off that bill, I pay the VAT. That's what every citizen pays for. But the transfer tax doesn't exist. He doesn't exist as a special tax if that money goes to the club. The only one who pays him is the player for the part he gets from it, if he gets it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69285	Comrade Boro Grubisic, please be my guest for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69286	I can go on right now. When someone wins the lottery under the new law, they pay as much as Mr. Schucker for the new 40%. What? 15%. It wasn't before. When someone transfers a player how much does he pay for that profit? Nothing, not even a lip. When it comes to building a firehouse in Donji Andrijavci, there is no money for foundations and building permits, or a building solution as it is now called, will expire exactly in a month and fail. No one will help the Firehouse and firefighters in Donji Andrijevci, neither Croatia insurance, no INA, no HEP with several thousand or ten thousand kunas to build a new firehouse and one facility that would serve for polyvalent purposes in Donji Andrijavci. But money is for this very purpose I'm talking about. Professional clubs, and they don't say professional. This bill goes towards privatisation and actually professionalization of clubs. How are the privatized companies? How were the companies bought? How the conversion and privatisation of everything and everything has been done, and so has Vibrabeton and Dukat and Pliva, and there's nothing left. Why don't we offer the United States to run our clubs, but we've offered Croatian waters. Well, it would be convenient for Americans to own Hajduk, Dinam, Russians, here's Abramovic, etc. Since Croatian waters were offered to the Americans, did Mr. Jandrokovic say so. Roads to the Australians, etc. The Greeks gave their infrastructure to the Chinese. Well, my God, why don't we privatize football clubs, find the financiers, the financiers, whatever you want, and privatize them. There are ways they can be professionalized and privatized. After all, far richer countries have done so. We also have an example of England, where the Emirates built a stadium in London. So, infrastructure. Not only are they investing in players, in clubs, in sports, but they built an Emirates stadium in London. And what's so weird about this now? What's wrong is this way of thinking. It's just a question of whether it's time in Croatia or not? Is this a suggestion not to say early corned and proposed or not? Is it time for the capitalism of this one not to say the raw and scary one that destroyed Croatia, that vulgar capitalism passed or did not? It's clear and more than obvious that he's in football, let's say he's not in the whole sport clearly that in those unattractive so-called. Sports, let's go from chess, cocoa, cocoa canoe clubs, etc. There are no or no politicians at all to say local lower levels, but in football, but that behind this football affair is politics, and even conflicts within politics, and even conflicts within one political option, that's for sure. Here's Mr. Kulusic looking at me, and he begged me to get one of the delegates from Brodo in the Croatian Football Federation to vote for the Stimic. ... That's right, he asked me, he begged me, he bested me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here. We're MPs and everything, we can say anything, and we need to say everything. Therefore, although the County Football Federation of Brod-Posavia County decided to vote for another option, delegates were divided, some were isolated, most likely, I didn't see, and others couldn't figure out whether, so here's exactly what someone mentioned here, I think Shime Lucin, that from the same county football organization was an unequal opinion, although the base chose only one candidate, here's the case, and then that candidate was later changed, and today the monolithic opinion of the county football organization of Brod-Posavina County. Very interesting, and very symptomatic of how it's done, how it's done and what it's done to turn and spin the money, and clearly there's money in the background and nothing else. I was president of the Women's basketball club, Brod, for a year. You know what my role as president was? And they told me it's an honorable place, it's, be there, it's still something for politics that brings you something. I came in with enthusiasm. And what was I? I was a beggar, who prayed by the water line boat, gas, utility and other commercial companies owned by the city and county to give a thousand, two, five, to buy tennis shoes to basketball players, etc. There was no hearing. It is precisely one of the sports, come on this one outside of Zagreb, where it is precisely this principle to say amateur, but then the budget of that club was 200 thousand kuna. To compare women's basketball club Krajisnik from Banja Luka, who hosted the Slavonski Brod, told me, their director that they have a budget of 100,000 euros, in Republika Srpska, so-called, very interesting, comparison of the two clubs, and the fund. So this disorderly situation requires gentlemen and you from the ruling HDZ coalition and the HSS and all of us together to think, we will not talk about the elections and what will be in the elections, but to think about and to find a solution to this situation in good faith and intent. I don't plead for any solution, but simply, in advance, it can't be denied that there is such a problem. You can't say no now it's as great as it is, and we all know that this is what these cheerleading riots come from, out of this situation and this kind of mess in the management structures of clubs and politics, and fans' riots and conflicts. I am a Dinam fan, but I'm taking Heiduk. Why... I love Osijek, I love Sibenik, I love Dubrovnik. [[You don't understand.]] What would they be fighting about? Well, I guess we are, so few of us, so we have to fight. So clearly that political influence was also in the former system, it was a long time ago, but Croatia if it wants to be arranged and modern state, then this mess to say sports disorder, I won't say chaos, because maybe it's excessive, it has to be arranged, it has to be arranged by thinking about all of us. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69287	Thank you. We have a report of a replica, a distinguished colleague of Lesar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69288	You mentioned to your colleague Grubisic that no one will help firemen build a firehouse. When building a firehouse, they will also have to pay for that water contribution or water compensation squares that we introduced a few years ago, for all investments, including school sports fields. But if they build a golf course, then they are free of the payments of that fee, because it was also passed under the law in the Croatian Parliament. If I remember correctly for 2007, I received the following two data, public companies and companies in which the Republic of Croatia has more than 50% of professional sports clubs, 98 million kunas of different donations and sponsorships, for culture, education, technical culture and humanitarian purposes, and that same year, these same companies singled out 24 million kunas. These are the data I received in writing in response to the parliamentary question. I have questions if anyone in the hall knows the answer. What's the name of what the Justice Sharers, in football, say, especially, because it's the largest number of them or judges, taking in a fucked-up game? Is that still a diary? Diaries and travel expenses. She used to be called. The fee is now, isn't it? Is that taxed? Is that what taxes are paid to do? Here's the former finance minister says travel expenses aren't paid taxes, but at a fee yes. ... It's not about the material costs of the club. It's about receiving citizens. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69289	Comrade Lesar, time for the replica. Comrade Boro, would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69290	Dear Lesar, it is not a topic of fire, but I have set only one example where, and in terms of profit investments, it is 2% of HEP’s public enterprises, Croatia’s insurance and others heading in one direction, and it is centralized according to only some clubs. Clubs like Spačva, Ceminac, boat clubs in the county etc., Cernika, Youth from Cernika, Požega, Slavonia do not go. Those funds never came there, they go here. And as a firehouse as something that is truly necessary today in Croatia, here I have only cited one example from the Lower Andrians where people are really here to raise the alarm because they will get out, so please this time Croatia's insurance to help, there will be less and damage if there is a firehouse in the Donji Andrijevci. Have them help the Donny Andreys.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69291	Thank you. Correction of the quote, colleague Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69292	Well, my colleague Grubisic told a lie and it's not true that I lobbyed. It is true that me and my colleague Grubisic, along with a cigarette on the terrace, discussed where he said this was a disaster, and then I told him that he had a man from his party, so let him vote for change. And then he said he couldn't influence him. So what he said isn't true. And the truth is, this is the first time politics has not interfered with the president's choice. However, Mr. Grubisic, given that you challenged me, I must answer you in an adequate manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69293	No, you've got to lift the plate of your colleague Kulusic, get up. You're the one who corrected the quote, so here's the red one. Say what you're correcting except that you didn't lobby him, but that you were smoking together.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69294	No, correction, correction. Well, I fixed it. However, given the firehouse, counterpart Grubisic said that those 90,000 euros you wanted to bribe the Supreme Judge would probably have invested in a firehouse by now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69295	Thank you. Replica, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69296	Thank you very much. Mr. Grubisic, you said that behind all this, there is essentially interest and money that someone doesn't want to go into football and that a certain control is being carried out. You're absolutely right, and there's a big consensus in the ruling coalition, we see that they're very successful in agreeing on it just can't agree on who's going to be president of the Football Alliance. Whether it's Stimac or Markovic. So we see how prominent political parties are calling, such as Mr. Friscic, meetings to replace delegates at 10 o'clock, and then the Stimac better convene the assembly session at 9 o'clock. So there it is, the interest is basically why this law does not want to be brought exclusively to retain influence in football where big money is in play, and there is no control over it. And it doesn't matter, they'll make it easy to figure out who's going to be president of the alliance in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69297	My colleague Maras has no idea about football and control because you think everyone understands it, and most of all they understand is what they think the ball is jumping because the frog is inside. And my colleague Boro, here's your answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69298	My colleague Maras and I should play some games with these others so we can see who can play football and who doesn't know. And the other thing, really, as you said yourself about how the money is spinning, it's still when we take that money and it's worth 500 million euros, which, according to the Washington Times, are blacked out by the HDZ on foreign accounts, we could have made all the firehouses in Croatia, not those poor ones that I mention money to this Ante Kulusic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69299	Thank you. And Col. Simunovic came forward for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69300	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kola Grubisic may be another thing that we may have forgotten today in this debate, most likely mentioned, but it remains on the side, which is why it is also important to target the public money as much as possible in amateur sports. Because in this way amateur sports has become available to children since kindergarten, since preschool age, since school age. In this way children adopt healthy lifestyles, adopt healthy habits. Afterwards, we have adults who are healthy, who do not get sick so often, who are not so likely to be prone to alcohol, smoking, not threatening. Thus, their risk of developing cardiovascular and other diseases also declines. In the long term, it is therefore a much less financial burden on our health system. So, with some measures in the long run, we create a healthier nation, we create a health system that is more efficient, which is not so burdened, and that's what we do today's savings in the state budget tomorrow. I think it's some long-term vision that shouldn't fall out of focus and then focus its discussion on some kind of financial crackdowns and transfers all over the place.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69301	Comrade Maras, you've been lifting a plate for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69302	Thank you very much. Article 208 has been injured. A Rules of Procedure which discusses the presidency during the session, and does not specify that you must give qualifications who knows what about what. I do if
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69303	Comrade Maras, there are also articles in which, as a participant of the debate, points must be held, and you have joined the Assembly of the Koprivnica-Crysing County Football Federation which has nothing to do with this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69304	You said I had no idea about football.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69305	So sit down, and you fellow Grubisic can answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69306	But the only thing I don't know so well about
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69307	No Rules of Procedure has been hurt anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69308	The Rules of Procedure of Art have been injured. In 208, I have no idea how to fool around at the HNS Assembly, which you know very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69309	You can fool around different than the HNS Assembly, don't worry. Comrade Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69310	Thank you very much. My colleague Šimunović agrees with your replica, although I think the money that can be used for public purposes would be... We could have long ago that these coins were properly directed and used to have what we long wanted, which is not only in kindergarten and school age sports equipment, props, playgrounds, sports halls but we could have free kindergartens for all children of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69311	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Biljana Borzana, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69312	Thank you very much. Here, I'm so glad my colleague threw it at me. I think I'm the first woman to have a debate about this point today, so it doesn't turn out that women don't have an opinion on sports, so I'm glad I answered. Namely, here is the prime minister very often calling on the opposition when the opposition is doing its job and criticising the government's work, calling for unity, calling for proposals, that we are not only critical, and now here is a proposal that is not some kind of difficult political issue that we could all agree on when the opposition therefore unfortunately does not happen again in terms of some commonity, to hear what the opposition is proposing and to adopt some of our proposals. Here, just as some interesting introduction, a lot has been mentioned already in previous discussions, in this debate, this is exactly what is happening in the Croatian Football Federation. So here we have days of articles in the newspaper sharing HDZ politicians who are next to Stimec, who is with Markovic, who influences the prime minister through whom to support this candidate or that candidate. So I would say here that I would like to see at least half the energy spent now on writing and talking about this subject, on unemployment, economic progress and so on. Unfortunately, with us, the nation is having fun with these sort of side things, so that maybe those important things stay in another plan that there is no solution. What's actually the point of leadership of all of us should be that Croatia loves the person who pays the tax. Unfortunately, in sports it is often seen that exactly the opposite thing is happening, and in that sense some drilling into the chest and patriotism I absolutely refuse to hear from such people. I'll, uh, look back here at my predecessors about some kind of, uh, influence policy on sport, I'll give an example that in the city of Osijek a few years ago there was a crisis of government and not voting budgets on time because of the Osijek football club. The two political options were in power, they were fighting over it because one asked for about 8 million kuna which was then between 2% and 3% of the budget for NK Osijek the other did not want to allow it, the other one saw its ability to influence the kohota, the other one had no such attitude, so they had a fight and we almost didn't have a budget in time. However, what is interesting in this story is that this amount of money is almost identical to the amount of money that was provided in the budget at that time for all those who say small municipal needs. So for the complete city of Osijek, for all nogostas, all parks, children's playgrounds, green areas, lighting and so on, what was to be singled out from local self-government funds, so approximately this political option wanted to separate for NK Osijek. I'm not saying in NK Osijek there's a lot, that particular young drive I think is important and it's good to invest in that, but this disproportionate of money I'm talking about, I think it speaks for itself very much. There is also disproportionately within the resistor itself to allocate funds for sport. So someone has already mentioned 90% of money is spent on professional sports, and 10% on amateurs, so we have an absurd situation that we have exactly the opposite of having 90% of people engaged in amateur sports, and all maybe 10% professional. So where there's a lot of people we have little money, where there's little people we have a lot of money, it's all a matter of interest and, unfortunately, politics again. Often investment in a local football club is often a matter of pride and some tradition and it is very often not related to the real situation with the popularity of the club or its opportunities to produce young and quality players that will be able to sell. NO, when they are sold by the state or city, there is nothing because we have an unsettled situation that we have already talked about today. Thus, the consequences of this are that athletes in whom much has been invested have largely failed to achieve the result that they can live with for the rest of their lives so solidly, and their health has been significantly disrupted. So they trained to disrupt their health and not enough to produce results that would provide them with age. The second consequence, now my colleague, I was hoping that my colleague Grubisic, as a doctor, would look a little bit more at this other aspect, but now she opened up a fellow Member of Simunović to discuss that we have a consequence of the inactivity of citizens, children from little to get into the sitting, in a sedentary way of living with a computer, with TV, games and so forth, and we have already created, today we do nothing to change it, a nation that is inactive and a nation that precedes the threat in Europe. We don't have to talk to anyone about how much financial it is, but there's been a lot of talk today about money and interest. So this is also about big money and it should be about the social interest that any government should have for its citizens. So, I'm going to tell you an example in America or in Canada about 6% to 7% of health funds are being allocated precisely because of the diseases that are caused by physical inactivity, it's billions of dollars, it's also with us, which, unfortunately, in our case, prevention is reduced to that we don't have indicators, there's not enough attention to prevention, as a result of that we have a lot of money that disappears in the health care system due to inactivity and a lot of savings we would achieve, so that's big money and important government interest. Unfortunately, today everything is somehow sort of about money and the interests of individuals who are prone to power and are thus demoted by the ruling to change something about it. Here, what I could say is that Croatia has really great results as regards top sports, it could be better, but indeed our athletes carry a voice about Croatia around the world, it is absolutely commendable, what I would like to stress once again is that amateur sport is as a means and achieve mental and physical health but we must not ignore the educational function of sport, something that should be of social interest above any interest as far as sport is concerned, but unfortunately today it is not the case. This debate, as well as the stance of the ministry, shows that obviously there is still no will to change something important in the system of sports, but I sincerely hope that if today, there has been no hearing about this proposal that it will still encourage the resolution ministry to think a little bit and take some steps that will allow us to arrange a system of sports tomorrow, that this is not happening as someone has said that there is a huge amount of money going through transfers, and the state has nothing but to achieve great savings in the long term and a great interest, and this is the social need of citizens for physical activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69313	Thank you, colleague. Now we move on to the replicas, the corrections of the quote. First of all, there's a colleague Maras here to pick up the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69314	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borzan. You talked about that where there's a lot of money unfortunately in sports there's few people and where there's little money there's a lot of people, in recreational sport, that's that the state doesn't invest a lot in recreational sport, which is true. Unfortunately, we have very little money from the Ministry of Sports and a little bit of a recreational especially school sport. But what's important is to mention, it's not controversial when there's a lot of money where there's a lot of people, but when those few people who make a lot of money pay taxes, unfortunately it's one caste, it's one of the few that's untaxed in this country. He makes a huge cake of money, and he doesn't pay back anything to the country or society. And they are led by football players, including Vice President Friščić, where one sport such as football, the entire football league initiative is the interest of less fans than the initiative of a hockey club from Zagreb. So that's how many people know how to interest people and how to offer citizens quality, professional and good and safe sport.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69315	Comrade Maras, football is not 16 first-sellers and 8 games. Now that season starts usually either last Sunday in February or first in March on sports grounds in Croatia. Three grand will be played every weekend, I repeat three thousand games. That the Shukers, the Bobans, the Lovrens, and not even this army that we agreed on, but not those of the youngest of the veterans, because out of these three thousand is exactly one thousand of those clubs after actively engaged but recreational about what's been talked about a lot, all of these are data, all these figures are just to be read, etc. We all know what we want. We want what's paid to pay taxes on certain things. But we need to know how to handle it, because I'm asking you, let's say, when Prosineski was coming in, I talked to Minister Schuker about his transfer, like, $5 million. I just asked him if he should pay for 5 million health and pension contributions, as long as he has a pension tomorrow if he pays for it. So these are things that we all agree together that we should deny, edit, and not look beyond it does not happen or we do not have a solution to these things. Because some countries have taken care of it and taken care of it. They said not to impose on those 5 million and 40 percent, but I don't know 15%, but it has to be paid in Croatia, and not then go to Monaco, San Marino or somewhere else to do those transactions. I took part in my time with my colleague Borzan. Here you are, reporting for reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69316	So, fellow Maras, if we and the same amount of money that is now provided either in state or in local budgets left to be for sport, but deployed differently, then the individuals who you call "knowers of other words" would lose influence, and we would get a positive impact on society at all, so in the sense of allowing broad folk masses to deal with sport, to be recreational and of course to those individuals, it is unfortunately not the goal because they are looking only at their own personal interest. And what they should be interested in as politicians, which is to keep the whole society as best, better, and more satisfying as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69317	There's no fight for him to tell us again what kind of acquaintance he was and we're almost a few of us here who haven't been in that role, which means go door to door and ask for a few thousand to finance clubs. You know, not all Mommys are in sports, although I won't be, and we don't need to be his lawyers, but they're usually the kind of activists that Agent Grubisic was talking about, so I believe that after that, he gave up being club president. Because one day you start losing friends. All right, everybody, don't come to me with a request to help you out with the club anymore. My colleague Djurdjevic, you wanted to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wanted to tell you, dear fellow, you mentioned the NK Osijek Club. I guess the city council and the people who run the city of Osijek gave the stadium concession to NK Osijek a long time ago. Main ground and another 5.6 auxiliary with accompanying contents. And what can happen? Osijek to be 2 or 3 in the league goes to European Cups. The stadium isn't covered, the western tribune doesn't meet the conditions. Flight tickets to Osijek-Klisa-Leverkusen or anywhere else doesn't matter. Although the city from the budget and county does not support the youth and surrounding clubs that work for NK Osijek, Metalac, Olympia, Vodavod, Donji Miholjac and now is a cartoon example, the sold small Domagoj Vida part goes to Domagoj, See, Dad and Rudiki, part goes to NK Osijek and part goes to the manager, and the least goes to NK Osijek. And that in times like these we live that the local community has to support the club, is if we do the opposite, the key in the lock. But that money the local community gave, the city budget, the county budget to strictly control where he went. Again, I say, not for the salaries of professionals, not for the contract deposited at the club with the manager and the lawyer, but for the clean life of the club, the maintenance of the stadium and the youth and profession that the youth is working with. Is that when he becomes a athlete he'll still bring something to that club if he goes to market.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69319	Thank you, fellow Djurdjevic. The reply to the replica is an esteemed colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69320	I agree that you can help and need sport, but also NK Osijek, of course, but I am talking about priorities. So, the one who's hungry, of course, won't buy the baths. On the other hand, what I think again if the country is in crisis, then I guess it is a priority to finance young people who will bring some knowledge, which will bring prosperity to Croatia, investment in schools, investment in knowledge. So if we're in the situation we're in now, then a sport that's important and needs to be helped, we should put it together so that we can try to help people get as much recreation as possible and have a physical active nation, but a nation that has knowledge, which has people who will be able to lead the country in an economically positive direction tomorrow. Sports, therefore, that top-notch sport and millions of investment funds does not simply fit the situation in which we live in Croatia today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69321	My colleague Buric, you wanted to make something right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to correct the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Borzan. In fact, it is incorrect to say that funding a sports collective in the city of Osijek has at any time caused a crisis of government. On the contrary, you are very well aware of the fact that the crisis of authorities in the city of Osijek has caused indirect or direct sport, or the construction of a sports hall in the City of Osijek, for which the HDSSB, as the then coalition partner of HSP, was Mayor Djapic even out of power, rather than taking part in the robbery of its own people for more than 500 million kuna as the HSP government then in the City of Osijek...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69323	Thank you, fellow Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69324	She wanted to do it to the citizens of the city of Osijek. What is more surprising to me is that after this crisis, the authorities have left the government, but it is you SDP council members in the City Council that continued to cooperate with the HSP in the next period until new elections. That was a surprise for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69325	Thank you, fellow Buric. After the comments are corrected, you'll figure it out later. The replica was also reported by a esteemed colleague, Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69326	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Borzan, you spoke here about fighting for power at the football club by identifying her with the political struggle she simply was, so it was more important who was going to rule the club than maybe some other things. I have to say, it's not specificity only to Osijek. The example works, somewhere in 2001 after local elections one of the mayors in my city said open to me it's only important that I get a football club to run, the rest doesn't interest me. That's just it. Why does it matter, because it's a place where some things can be done that aren't good. But you were talking about great results in top-notch sports. So if we look at it, it's not a very big financial amount, it's something that we think of as a top-notch sport with regard to some clubs that have some kind of Central European League or Central European Cups. Earlier, Serbian counterparts pointed to Olympic medals, and I would like to say that there were more such situations. There's not much money on the Olympic medals either. This is about something else entirely, this is about those who are turning big money, we know what we're talking about, football here is always apostrophe, even if it's not public, and that's the problem. The problem is, therefore, that part of these funds should be put in the context of all those givings that should go to the state. And as for youth health and sports, this law is just saying that more resources remain for that sport, for recreation, for young people's sport, from which we will probably get both certain champions and certain top-notch results over time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69327	Replication response, colleague Borzan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69328	Here's a colleague of what you were saying about top-notch sport he often did not actually because of a good strategy in the sport of the state, but because of the enthusiasm of individuals of the type Goran Ivanišević, Janica and Ivica Kostelic and the like, so in Osijek as well as Mirna Riley or Seligman, so individuals who are talented and with the help and support of their primary family, and not countries succeeded in this sport. As far as sports is concerned, Mr. Friscic had just said something about it, about the enthusiasm of politicians who engage in certain clubs as club presidents, but this brings us all together, and I was in this situation, into one conflict of interest. Because if you're headed as a politician of one club you force, wanting to help that club, you force one club in the city or in the county, depends on or on the municipality, at which level you're already in power, and the others you didn't just want to neglect, and these are the same citizens of that city who chose you or those municipalities or those countys and didn't deserve to stay in the other plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69329	... She's a colleague of Borzan's. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those who know Greek well, Latin and it is translated that politics is work for the common good, and then we politicians would have to step away from everything because where we are there is no common good or no good. I don't think that's right, especially in sports. Sports is a game, friends before and after, and during the match, you know, then we're opponents. We have another replica reported. Dear colleague Simunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69330	Thank you. I'm sorry that sometimes this debate starts in the direction of discussing this club, about that club, and I'm just waiting for the waves to start working here in the assembly room. And I think it's actually a key question that this law needs to address the issue of amateur sports and, therefore, rerouting that public money from professional to amateur. As I have already said, there is a matter of health, a matter of the health of the nation, and I am glad that my colleague Borzan recognized this issue and this big and important problem. In fact, Minister Milinović often talks about health system reform and health reform, so what else is this law than one form of reform of the health system because her colleague Borzan said nicely that amateur sport is nothing but a beautiful and perfect example of prevention and in fact a healthy nation with healthy life habits, which is our goal and interest to all.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69331	Thank you very much. And here's the reply to the replica, the distinguished colleague of MP Borzan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69332	My colleague, I thank you. I see that you can see quite clearly what the catch is for me to say. But here I am going to say a concrete example, Croatia has recently adopted some sort of obesity strategy that included certain and physical activities in order to reduce the budget to half the amount originally envisaged, which in itself says that there is obviously not enough hearing for this problem. I hope Mr. Friscic doesn't want to rephrase to me again, but I have to say that dealing with this kind of political influence in sports can't be again, politics is work for the common good, but being president of a club is particular interest, not general interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69333	I'm not going to rephrase it because everyone of us has a democratic right to their own opinion. Let's move on with the debate. Dear colleague Zdenko Franic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69334	Honored Mr. Vice President, honored Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. There is no doubt that in sports and sports, huge resources are being used. It is not only a specificity in the Republic of Croatia, it is in the world so, perhaps even more money revolves around sports than in sports itself, because there are numerous scandals that, for example, shake European sport. Crime, match-fixing, consequential betting fraud, etc. It is interesting, therefore, that some of our fellow citizens are at least suspected of such activities as we have had the opportunity to read in the media lately. However, the fact is that Croatia's sport may not be all but football may be more statistically exposed to the activities of various unspeakable types which, by their behaviour, cannot be imagined to be an example to younger generations whose sport must be an example. Of course we're not going to mention names, but at least it's about players, it's about managers and things like that. This Croatian sport has been exploited by the construction mafia, so let's say we have in Maksimir a skeleton of something that was supposed to be a modern sports field. Devasting one even an architectural heritage, the authorial work of a well-known Croatian architect who is now completely ruined, devastated even from the aspect of the static, is also a questionable way to even resuscitate. Let us ask ourselves how much the pool could be built for that crazy spent money. There's statistics inexorable. One suitable pool, true without theater but the theatre does not need to be recreationally engaged, for example by swimming costs between one and two million euros. So, we could supply every city district in the largest Croatian cities with swimming pools for this money, which is in a frenzy, for example, paved in a Maximic stadium. Sports is obviously an emotional issue. There are so many sports laws in the House. Here they are, on several occasions we had laws on preventing riots on sports grounds that we simply didn't have the strength to call the Law to prevent riots on football grounds. Because on other sports grounds, there's almost no incident or minimum. How is it possible for us to say that the Medvescan hockey players either play or win or lose in the Ice House of Sports after these matches their fans do not savage, do not damage cars, trams, do not conflict with police or citizens who live around them. How is it possible that after handball games, there are also no incidents, but only after football happens. This law, proposed by the SDP, is a law, as a colleague mentioned earlier, aimed at redistributing funds from professional sports to amateur sports and recreational sports. Isn't it a shame that some half a mile, maybe less air lines than this honorable place, so on the high school playground, those terrains are so devastated by the poor derutical state? Dear Madam Secretary of State, is there somewhere in the capital of a European state where there is one terrain within a mile of the very heart of that country in such a state? Why can't middle-generation or older-generation people find a field somewhere or a gym to do a little recreational work with anything, table tennis. Where can you play table tennis today if you've been 50 or 60 years? When you go to the pool, do you know the times for citizenship? From 6 a.m. to 7 a.m. to 5:30 a.m. It's 6:00 a.m. citizens' time. Well, listen, we are early wounded, some of us at least, but what's excessive is excessive. If there were more pools, if there were more halls, the terrain would be more sport and fewer people would do other inappropriate things. In particular, it refers to a younger generation. But let us mention, therefore, both the middle and the older generation who simply does not have the opportunity to increase a little more than walking or hiking or what I know about my physical condition by more organized activities. As we discuss here, here's the third hour according to statistical data, approximately the job lost between 50 and 60 workers. The question is, all that money that's spinning which is black and white because of the bad legislation, that because of the crime in professional sport, to prevent such inappropriate activities, is the question of how many jobs could be saved, how much could the standard of citizens, children, amateurs, recreationals be increased. This law is intended to fix the situation in sport, which is burdensome with problems and let's be honest, this specifically refers to football. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69335	Thank you. We have four replicas. First, he's a respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69336	Thank you very much. In fact, since you mentioned in one sentence the Law on the Prevention of Disturbs on Sports Courses and Club Medvesčak, the Medvesčak hockey club. I'd like to warn you of one fact now. If we adopt such a proposed Law on the Prevention of Conflicts on Sports Fields, we will destroy Club Medvesčak. Why? Because the law prohibits beer being poured on sports grounds, while Medvescak provides a good share of his assets by selling sponsor beer at his games. And you mentioned yourself that besides that beer, which is actually drunk, there's no mess, there's no incident, and there's nothing. Actually, that's how we don't systematically approach things. And one more thing, about scandals, about different affairs, here's what you said for three hours we're discussing. And I have to say that I answered for one thing, which is that no one in the entire debate mentioned corruption, corruption in sports as a matter of fact the possibility of certain discretionary, to call them that, the decision. So we all know when some politician goes to someone for money, they'll give money, but they'll expect something in return. So that's another reason why we have to be transparent about funding sports. For the simple reason we have to protect amateur sports, recreational sports from this professional one. And finally, once again let's push the politics out of the sport, no matter how much anyone thinks this kind of policy-making in sports is a work for the common good, I don't think he's working for the common good, because why some politician would prefer a football club, not a sailing club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69337	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69338	Yeah, I wouldn't ban politicians from playing sports, but from the point of view of real sports, not sports management. Here I also mentioned corruption in sports and around sports and betting, match-fixing, then field construction, construction mafia, guessing, etc. It is one evil that should be prevented, we need to be systematic in this, and we need to deal more with it as legislators with a whole set of laws that would prevent it, and the beginning is this Law on the prevention of riots on sports grounds, which is really, for unknown reasons, constantly moving away from the moment when it should come to debate, and wildlings are practically everyday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69339	Thank you very much. Second replica, Honorable Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69340	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Franić, you have pointed out several times the fact that sports promotes, passes and conflicts of extremely large material interests, especially many who participate and build sports courts, sports halls, and it is obvious that it is the same model that wants to get some money. And even when it comes and imposes a model that makes it impossible for a political option to take advantage of such a situation in order to get money, then probably because they need money to bribe judges, then there is a break-up of coalitions, because after the privatisation is carried out, above all in... where a number of industries were fed, cancelled, destroyed, where people were left out of work, those who still got hold of certain construction companies wanted to provide them with jobs to build these primarily large sports halls in Osijek on the one hand, and on the other hand, it was terrible for them not to provide any construction, because the political model is inadmissible to anyone in Slavonia to build anything so that they could say that Slavonia was fueled, bad, destroyed, etc. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69341	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69342	Dear fellow Serbs, God has given us great resources in sport, but that means thanks to good games, good results, good practice, good examples, to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the younger generation, to be in our pride and pride, not to be blushing because of the incident of fans, or because of a variety of political corruption and rackets which unfortunately make us more and more witnesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69343	Thank you. We have the third line, the distinguished representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, I agree with you that sports playgrounds, sports courts, sports facilities should be made more available to the citizens, but I don't think it's justified that you call in some way the ministry. It's a matter of local self-government. They are the owners of sports facilities, except school halls, where they are in some way, and there are owners because they are the founders of schools etc., but in some ways the ministry has influence through the education system. And fortunately, it has an impact, because it gives out huge resources through decentralised funds to rebuild and maintain these objects. That's good luck. What you're saying about sports facilities should be more available to citizens, absolutely yes, but ask local self-government. She's in charge of opening up the space of sports facilities to the citizens. And let's not talk all the time, comparing football sports, football has, there's certainly violence among fans, but it has nothing to do with sports. You can't tell me that the extraordinary genius moves of athletes like Modric or the Dead or I don't know which representatives that this has anything to do with the violence happening in the stands. It's a matter of sociologists, psychologists. There is no Croatian citizen who is not interested in any of the sports, there is no such one. I am sure that every Croatian citizen has an interest in some of the sports, and certainly should allow Croatian citizens to practice sports. Here I am personally playing table tennis and I am very pleased. Here, we can meet up like a colleague told us to play table tennis. But let's not get involved, let's not confuse sports with what's going on around sports. And from violence and from crime, it's in all parts of society. Let's secure the right conditions for everyone and it's at all levels, at all levels. From local self-government and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69345	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69346	... professional sport as the name itself says is a profession like any other and indeed every honor to our top athletes including football players who demonstrate daily their knowledge and skills in Europe, and sometimes in Croatia. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] However, where it is, here we have made the Prime Minister deal with these scandals that have accumulated in Croatian football in a meeting with 4 eyes. And I believe that she will handle it, and I hope that it settles in a satisfactory way. But the guilt lies here also on us as legislators that we are not more aggressive to systematically address this issue of overall relations in Croatian sport, and I was talking to Mrs. Secretary because she is from the Resolute Ministry and even as far as the high school playground is concerned, this high school playground is partly owned by the Architectural and those colleges. So it's not just local self-government. And then the local self-government in agreement with the ministry could somehow agree and find a solution to that shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69347	Thank you. And we have another replica, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69348	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a colleague when you're discussing sports I really appreciate you as a man of science, if I'm not mistaken in atomic physics, but your debate about sports really cannot be accepted because your debate is about seeing that you've never worked at a local level. We're not talking about some big clubs right now. Neither at the local level that you were nor a secretary, nor a vice president, and I can see that you don't know how it works. Did you say where you were going to play table tennis? Well, it's right in the middle. Your mayor must build a sports hall and rooms where you will train. And if there wasn't a withdrawal of that money in local self-government, then you wouldn't have to play table tennis anywhere. When you're talking about top-notch sports, let's not just look through the crime scene. Here, let's go skiing, I don't know how to build a ski resort in Zagreb. Well, it's just that you SDP gentlemen have forced your mayor to build that track and today we have it. And we've got top skiers, so they didn't get a chance to have that kind of track before. So what are you going to tell me that this trail is profitable, that it's commercial? You know when it'll be? Well, it's good for the citizens, but don't tell the public that everything that's invested in sports is wrong and money is thrown away. [[Intruder: Use citizens.]] That's exactly what Mr. Franic said. There can't be no money dropped. But let me just say this, this debate that's being held here today you're conducting it purely politically and it's reduced to politics. You're replicating each other, you're showing yourself to the public, and that's so transparent, that's so much – look, I mean, don't convince me of something when I hear what you're saying. So you're leading a proper policy towards sport, but not the kind of policy you started today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69349	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Zdenko Franić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69350	I never said that everything invested in sport was wrongly invested, etc., I only took as an example Dinam Stadium as an example of the savage devastion of a once-good stadium, the author work of famous Croatian architects that went all into nothing. So, about 150 million, I don't know if it's the dollar, the euro in anything. For that money, I said, there could be some 75 very good swimming pools for citizenship, training, etc. So put sport more accessible, wider masses. As far as local self-government is concerned, local self-government should work both fields and swimming pools, etc., but it does not work. Also unfortunately, urbanism, which is completely broken in Croatia, disappeared, does not fulfill its role and consequently such terrains are not even planned in urban plans not only in Zagreb but nowhere. And it's a shame, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69351	Thank you. And now we have, on behalf of the promoter, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69352	About my colleague Mršić is in the Parliament, so I especially welcome him. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So, already this many hours of debate under this SDP proposal to intervene in the Sport Act and make the necessary changes in the sense that really professional clubs are professionalized i.e. transform into companies. We have already reached a debate because we all agree more or less that there is no transparency of public spending through individual clubs. I, speaking for the club, would still like to point out that unfortunately we are witnesses that many clubs are publicly turning into private and there is something gentlemen must and should do. Mrs. Prime Minister often says, this was highlighted here in the debates, do not criticise the opposition, join, suggest something, help. However, one cannot help one who will not be helped. So we'll all agree that it doesn't satisfy the situation, but we won't change it. We don't agree to such a thing, we don't agree to such impotence, we don't agree that the state has no mechanisms at the end and the duty not to change this situation. What happens today in professional clubs is a normal consequence of the abnormal state. So let's remember the last changes to the Sport Act when he was still Minister Primorac, who dryed that Sport Act, that is, the state recovered those debts and then nothing improved. Yes, of course. It's something that could be characterized as the state's action, when the state is fragmented, after all we've had one famous show going on right on this topic when the state is scattered that huge funds have been invested in giant halls that cities and states can't finance right now. And school kids, citizens, can't get in because it's too expensive for them. Therefore, what the SDP Club clearly and loudly wants to say is that we want to separate amateur sport from professional sport. Please, a professional player is a profession like any other. Of the millions of earnings that have been sold to their players abroad... many of our clubs, the state has not been incometing a single lip. They're citizens' associations, so isn't that wooden iron, citizens' association, and this is where huge money and professional clubs are spinning, things are so legally set up that we have to change that made this kind of behavior possible and we don't need to be surprised right now, but this situation, it's about time to get rid of it. Therefore, citizens' associations do not pay profit tax, and according to the Tax Act, the transfer case did not provide for additional value. We ask that the tax burden must be fair, so when citizens and companies are squirming over it in the tax burden of various types and various burdens, and no one has mercy for them, and then elementary justice here is the day of social justice that was a few days ago, no one thought of it because we consider it some kind of relic that doesn't require a lot of words, but we at the SDP Club think that these are the values on which the state must rest and then some legal solutions, this is one big injustice. The HDZ gentlemen have expressed great concern about the collapse of possibly many famous clubs that would infamously end this way, why? Because they're convulsing in debt, for maintaining... the salary to players, clubs are on some loans, etc. and so much closer. I am now asking here on behalf of the motionary the question: How long will it take to pump public money into such clubs? It's going to fail, the HDZ gentlemen say. And please don't make anyone happy, though, but if it has to happen then it's better to make it happen as soon as possible. Many companies who have employed hundreds of thousands of workers have failed, many families have not seen or heard your concerns about it. That is, it's market business, it's management, they mismanaged, it was socialist mastodons, etc. Well, you know what gentlemen, Croatian sport, this professional needs one such catharsis, if one should fail, it is one catharsis after which if some professional clubs fail afterwards, Croatian sport will not fail, because Croatian sport makes up associations of citizens, amateurs, over 80 close to 90% of our sports life are made of them. And that's exactly the opportunity to free large funds for them right now. From school kids to middle-aged people to the old age. I will repeat once again that many countries, the Scandinavian countries that have very good health care about preventing their citizens from sporting activities, are taking due account. And I ask once again what citizens have from such professional sports? I can go and look at a nice sports event, yes, yes, gentlemen, but it's still a bit of a loss in Croatia, it can get hurt, the state is drastically strengthening sanctions, measures, but strengthening the repression is not the solution for the anaemia that has prevailed in society, for the great conflict of individuals and society, for the unfair policy that is being conducted in all fields. So, I think that, this is the first reading, even though we've made the initial proposal to go into emergency procedure, but in any case, this has time to, if you think, you can react even better, that we should do it until the second reading. That's what we as the SDP Club, as proponents, will do, as far as good proposals are concerned, here we must have responded to the amendments of this Law in the most important way just in order to transform these clubs into stock companies as quickly as possible. I'll point out, it's to you who are following the sport safely and better known, which is why some justified fear that professional sports will experience a debacle with us. If he's so good, he'll find an employer, he'll find a businessman whose most important interest is primarily his own promotion. And where better promotions will be than investment funds in a club like that. So please don't make famous fives, don't do world clubs, Real Madrid, Manchester United, Milan, Chelsea, Inter, Bayern, Arsenal, Liverpool. They have, please, just because they do business in such a way, not just from tickets, over 43% comes that make several hundred million euros a year, comes from marketing. Therefore, but you can see that we have one sick combination of remains of socialism, newly-componted capitalism, and there's no control there. And we have what a colleague of ours here would say to a strange beaker here. In fact, local leaders to save their clubs from what they're doing? I'm sorry, but they're not dealing with anything but a political racket. They call the businessmen you know it would be convenient, so you don't point a gun at them, but it would be convenient to know our club is in big trouble, if you'd help, 50 times like that. People are exhausted, people don't have to pay, but they have to give up often you know why because they're the ones getting jobs from the city. Therefore, transparency... the essence of this bill of ours and the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69353	Thank you very much. Let's have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First is the distinguished representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69354	Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect that we don't care about social justice, that we don't care about the unemployed. That's not true. And my colleague Antičević is pleased for the sake of the Croatian public and for the professional sport that they have heard from you in fact that you would be glad that they all fail. It is I think only useful in this debate your desire for professional sport to fail. And this is about the experiences where the city gives money to sport so that something can be done, I assume, from your mayor's experience on the racket.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69355	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, prominent representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69356	Well, no one's been happy about the job, and I'm not saying it on behalf of the club that some professional club is going down, but I say and I'm staying at it, if it has to go down... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69357	It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and please don't do it and don't throw it away in such a way and insult your colleagues. That's not appropriate. Let's move on with the correction of the incorrect quote, distinguished representative Ivan Škaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect for colleagues of Anticevic to call on local leaders to help local clubs and to do so 50 times as you have said. I've been a local leader for 15 years. Never in those 15 years have I called any businessmen to help any local club, because all these clubs are mostly funded from the city budget, and everything else is good for local entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, there's not much of that good will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69359	Thank you. And we have a further discussion. Dear Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Do you know what is the share of Croatian gross social product in the world's gross social product? Almost no percentage. 0, and something negligible. And do you know how much of Croatia's sport is involved in world sports? Huge. And in this context Croatia is a paradox and a Croatian miracle. Rarely, such a country exists that has so many sports successes in terms of infrastructure and investment in sport. And in the opening statement, we heard that these little changes want to make a big change, or a big mess to turn into order. If it's such a mess then a small step can't get past the big break-in. But the truth is, there's a problem. We have problems in Croatian sport, problems are in infrastructure, insufficient development, insufficient number of halls. Well, the family can't go with the child today because there's no toilets either, there's no hygienic conditions, the problem is sometimes coaches who don't have a basic level of education so they can work with children, the problem is managers who even recruit children, who affect the status of their "protectors" both in the club and in the team, the problem is big bookies. It caused so much social damage, they introduced a new form of addiction into society. These are the obvious problems that exist in sports. But the problem is the alliance, we also have a problem with the Croatian Olympic Committee, which accepts its membership alliances that have no competitions or clubs. We have to deal with it, we have to think about it. We have a problem and funding, we still haven't found an optimal funding model. But despite all this, we achieve such successes as many developed countries cannot. All we can think about is skiing, water polo, handballs, gymnastics, athletics, and everyone here is just playing football. Well, football is the worst condition. What are individuals able to do in football and in some other clubs so best testify to this, just remember what has been done with Cibon, one or two individuals. What he did with Dubrovnik football, one or two, it's a horror how much he's been suffering damage for years. And with all these problems, the least of the problems are those mentioned problems. The biggest problem is individuals in sports and individuals in some sports, especially football. What did they do to football? Some have made this space a space where failure is called success. When handball players or water politicians win 5th or 3rd place at the World Cup, everyone says failures, and when football players don't put themselves in the world championship, they all show it in success. Football has become an area where we embarrass the state. Fans are ashamed, the presidents of the alliance are ashamed because they promise everyone in the world that Croatia will be a candidate for the championship this or that, and then it won't get any votes. We all have to be aware of that. So many have contributed to becoming a place where a lie is called the truth in which intricacies are called professionalism, in which ignorance is called knowledge, in which personal interest is called love. We have to deal with these problems. Also, many have contributed to the fact that football becomes a place where education is recommended, where immorality is the easiest to open doors, where it is a more unfair virtue, where fraud is praised and the shames of glory. We have to put an end to that. How? Change those people. Those who harm and threaten and shame Croatia and Croatian society simply change them. It won't change the law, but we need to change the influence by fighting for a new selection of people. And there's homework and politics. Well, politicians can't step away from that segment, not at all. They must influence to act positively and in positive direction our society, and sport is one important segment of society, but we must not fall into error and observe everything through football Croatia. We have so many other sports, we insult thousands and thousands of valuable people and children and coaches and presidents of the alliances and club presidents who have had a positive impact in many ways and directed sports in Croatia in a positive direction. And we must never mind that in most cases, imagine that a gymnast wins a gold medal in Croatia, that there are so many of our skiers among the world's first, leading, and they have no place to train in Croatia. We should appreciate that, but we also need to raise our voice against those who shame and Croatian sport and Croatian football the most and prevent those from acting. And we have to, this policy has to take part and it has to work in this way, and we are not going to do that just by changing the law a little bit, but by looking at the system state in sport to detect all the problems and completely through the legal framework to solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69361	Thank you. We've got four replicas, we'll do one replica by half, and we'll pick up the others later at 3:00. Dear Representative Dubravka Shuica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69362	So here's what I want to do is replicate my colleague Maric and agree with you that I'm not up to the fact that politics needs to move away from sports because we're going to come to what Vice President Shakespeare just said, let's depoliticalize politics. There won't be anything in the end. What does that mean? If someone in his youth was involved in sports, he loved sports, and later he began to deal with politics, it means that he should now get away from it. Secondly, I'm going to tell you one example of little Dubrovnik, this morning I've been questioning whether I'm going to answer the word or not, an example of the Dubrovnik Club Water polo Club South, and I have to tell you that I happen to be or not to become an honorary member, the first woman in the management of that club, and I certainly didn't recruit anyone, nor did I say Mr. Scaricicicic, as you just said to anyone that she had to provide the funds, etc. So quite the opposite, the whole town lives for that club, not to buy players, but to recruit from the city and the surrounding area, from Konaval, from Cavtat, from the Dubrovnik coast, and that town lives for that club. And when it comes to football, Mr. Maric, who you mentioned, so really an individual can do a miracle in a positive or negative. When it's a football thing in Dubrovnik, it's really in a negative sense. And how to say that the South Water polo Club is a multiple European champion, and the Dubrovnik football club or... Only in the fourth league. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now explain it to me. It really is about individuals and I agree with you that a system needs to be built and that this law is certainly not the solution to what we were talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69363	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69364	Thank you very much, fellow Shuica. Well, it makes sense, considering I was just saying what qualities in football are appreciated, virtues. If other criteria were to prevail, those individuals who could do much in a positive direction would turn that direction from negative to positive. And why should politics affect sport? So politics is responsible for all segments of society. Those who have caused problems in football will never solve these problems, nor will they solve what they themselves have done. Well, never have frogs voted to dry the swamp. Never. We need to dry the swamp. It's our responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69365	Thank you. That's what we're going to end the morning session now, but I just want to say one sentence, which is that it's a lot of negative, but it has to be said that thousands and thousands of honest people, volunteers are often held on their backs by clubs they work for day and night so that children can train, so they can play, so that they can deal with sports and let's not turn everything into negative. Let's mention those people some time. Thank you very much. I wish you a good run. We're going back to work. Discussion of the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Sports, first reading. We had replicas on the basis of a thorough debate from the distinguished representative Goran Marić. Now it is the turn of a distinguished representative, Ivica Pancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69367	Here's a thank you, Mr. Vice President, for giving me some time to rest and think about it, so let's get on with it. So, fellow Maric, you've done a great job of painting the state of sports and the problems that exist in him, and you've also said that no frog will vote that her swamp is dry. We are just trying to help make this swamp a nice lake that will be good for frogs, as well as for those who pay for it and those around that lake want to walk. Because the essence of this proposal and all the discussions is how to make the system better, i.e. that the results of our professional athletes are even better, and also to fulfill that function that makes sport and there exist, which is that young people deal with it, to be healthy, not to end up on the street, but to find a further sense of sports, or to be somewhere around it. The problem is not only, the problem Croatia faces is that our collective sports as the legacy of that former system are slowly weak, except for water polo and in some ways I don't know what will be long-term with the handball, these problems in the Football Alliance will certainly not reflect well on the future results of the team, but let's well leave it aside to see. And individual sports in which Croatia is increasing results and better achieves, unfortunately they are still tied to the involvement of the parents of athletes. Now how do we preserve it positively and at the same time encase the system, because it is not only a problem in professional sport as an image of all evil but it is also a problem in an unsettled state in amateur sport because three people cannot form a quality sports club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69368	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69369	Comrade Pancic, I said that the frog would not vote to drain the swamp and that we were invited to dry if there was a swamp. The situation in sport in most cases is remarkable and I painted it in Croatia. And the negativity has already appeared in football. This bill selectively addresses problems that are in sport otherwise. The problem in sports is complex, and I said that it is necessary to analyse it systematically and completely solve it. And in football is a special story, like a happy society whose history is boring so and football would be happy if his history were boring but it's not but it's very worrying. That's why we're not doing well there.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69370	Thank you. We still have another replica of Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69371	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As many times as I have agreed with your debate and when you mentioned the Croatian Olympic Committee and sports that are recognised and do not even have to hold a league competition, then I must mention sometimes the really important sports that were in Croatia, which we remember with the memory of starting with the late Mate Pavlov, the wrestling sport, the wrestling in which they are today and where they are today. The second thing I wanted to say to you, you said politics installed these guys from the swamp, not to list all the epithets you used in your debate, "epitities", that politically installed incompetent people who in some way and disgraced Croatian sport, about so in this context. I fear that the idea of citizens and politics is similar so that it will be installed better than politics when there is one in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69372	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69373	My colleague Grubisic, every society and part of society suffers from certain shortcomings. So in each segment there are both good and bad, and virtues and disadvantages, and in trouble they strengthen both both and good and bad so there are undesirable phenomena in politics but there are also professional, honest people who are responsible and working on the welfare of society and we can't rule that out. But they didn't install anyone like that in sports. No, they're not. A good man can't be a bad man's pet at all. The good ones choose the good ones, the first-class ones choose the first-class ones, and the second-class ones choose the third-rate ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69374	Thank you. We are continuing with an individual debate, and we are coming up with a distinguished representative, Plasimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. We have on behalf of the HDSSB Club a respected representative, Dinko Buric. Five minutes of debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69375	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is unquestionable that something should and must be changed in Croatian sport, given the difficult times in which the vast majority of citizens live, it is unacceptable and sometimes offensive to look at and listen to certain situations, in which money in sport is spoken of in a way that cannot be impressed but demeaning and boasting. But I won't talk too much about it. I want to put a special emphasis on the importance of not only top-notch but also amateur sports for a number of reasons. Of course, I also think of the general importance of sport for promoting and preserving health in line with the famous saying "in a healthy body, a healthy spirit", but sport also plays an important educational role especially in children and young people, of course, if this aspect of sport is not ignored, and if it is constantly taken into account. But what is often forgotten is the fact that sports and sports collectives mean not only for large but especially for small local communities especially for villages. I am saying this in mind of such small environments throughout the Republic of Croatia, especially in Slavonia and Baranja. Life in the villages of Slavonia and Baranja in recent years has been worrisome and this thanks to neglect and neglect by the central state government. Life in our Slavonic villages rests on five cornerstones. It's churches, schools, DVDs, CUDs and sports collectives. If that dies too, then our villages are really threatened by disaster. And that's why none of us have the right to just blindly watch what's going on and do nothing. Therefore, in maintaining all these rock foundations of life in villages as well as in sports and sports collectives in small local communities, everyone has to help survive these difficult times because they are the core of gathering young people. And if it is no more then there will be no youth, and our villages will indeed die. In this sense, the role of both local and regional self-government is of inconceivable importance and responsibility. And the modest resources available to municipalities, cities and counties must be spent rationally, wisely and evenly. A very picturesque example of how it must not be available by such means of sport is the case of building a sports hall in Osijek before the World Handball Championship held in Croatia that year. The then city government, headed by HSP Mayor Anto Djapic, tried with the blessing of the then Sanader government only at that one hall to steal the citizens of Osijek from the city budget of more than 600 million kuna. The estimated value of HSP's hall was almost 845 million kuna to which we from the HDSSB as then coalition partners and those who had the largest number of council members in the city council of Osijek did not want to agree at any cost, or at the cost of breaking up the coalition, going to the opposition that finally happened. But it also happened that this same hall was then built for 209 million kunas, not by the means of the city budget, but by the state budget that we've been looking for from the beginning, but we've been denied the demands until we've presented the evidence and the indicators of the attempt. And we're proud of this fact. That this is not a lonely example speaks and mentions Mr. Heffer's example. A fellow Heffer mentioned a mayor who said he was only interested in the football club. The mayor is Vinkovci, a sports collective of Cibalija, and the mayor also from HSP. It's obviously HSP's behavioral model. You can give them anything but executive power. Because when they get their hands on it, they turn into HDZ's little ones. What the HDZ is, it's a state register, it's a local HSP. When they see a cash register, they turn into a poker machine, and they only start to spin in their eyes. And it doesn't matter what currency it is. It's important there's at least another number in front of all zeroes. And it is well said that politics should be seen as work for the common good. Very often it is, but not when it comes to HDZ and their copy in small HSP. Then of the general good nothing. On the contrary, there is a damage to inconceivable proportions. When it comes to HSP, it's like a powerful flood in Slavonia. When it comes to HDZ damage he's done to the entire state, it's just as bad as the tsunami. [[Employing Capricorn: Please, Your Honor...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69376	Here's an example of how a man can come for a pay phone, take a word, speak beyond the agenda and past the subject. We can't just do that. Bad and arrangements and meetings and everything. Let's move on. Does he want a proposaler's representative final or was that final? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69377	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Sport Act. In accordance with the proposal from the Government and the parliamentary bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Sport Act is not adopted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? I find that with 73 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 27 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69378	We move to point eight, which is - Proposal for a law on Family Law Supplements, first reading, P.Z. No. 522 Proposer: Representative Dragutin Lesar The representative proposed these amendments to the law pursuant to Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69379	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm a little surprised, because this bill came quite quickly to read from March 18th last year, so I didn't quite get ready because I expected a debate somewhere in December this year. The proposal for a law to amend and one supplement the Family Law is very short on its content, but it is very important for a possible number of children whose fate would have a positive impact on but also on the number of couples that would make life easier. According to the current Family Law, when a child is born, the state ordered that a father be considered a mother’s husband during marriage, but also 300 days after a possible divorce. This law determines that if a divorce occurred, Mother’s ex - husband will sign up as a child’s father. When such a provision was incorporated into the law and there was a debate here in the House and the Government in its opinion and now claims that such a provision is entered into the law because it protects the child's interest. So the state doesn't care who the real biological father is, but it starts with its desire that the father must be the mother's husband or mother's ex-husband if it's up to 300 days between the day of divorce and the day of birth. What about women who are born and are not married? Under the Family Law, they are called to the Center for Social Care by requiring their father's name. For the first time, he refused, for the second time refused, and for the third time refused, and such conversations and calls at some centres, in some cases they are endless. I was approached by a woman who had been through six interviews at the Social Care Center and refused to give her father's name for extremely serious reasons. To break the torture, a friend of hers agreed to declare that he was the father of a child, only to stop inviting her every two months to the Social Care Center and force her to reveal the identity of a child's father. But let's get back to the marital situation that fell apart. So if a woman gets pregnant and has a baby, and she's married and she knows and she claims that the child's father is not her husband, and the biological father admits it, and her husband also admits that she's not the father of a child, the state doesn't care, she has to sign up as a mother's husband. So all three partners and the mother who gave birth to the child, and the man she's married to and the biological father are declaring the same who's the father of the child. He can't. It must be the mother’s husband, or husband, but on condition that the woman who gave birth to such a child initiates judicial proceedings and contests the fathership of her husband or former husband, and only after a final judgment, which will determine that her mother’s husband is not the father of a child, will the father’s real biological father be allowed under the name of the father. And what if the mother's husband dies between divorce and the passing of 300 days, so he can't attend court proceedings? What if he's staying in China, and he's not available, and he can't get a subpoena for a court hearing, where a court case would determine who the real father is? I did not file the bill in the procedure based on one example, but I did file a complete file of a case that took place here in Zagreb, and of a child born on 22 October 2008, and still no biological father has been entered in the book, and the case is in the Supreme Court by three basics. As it seems in practice, I'll illustrate to you the following. The husband and wife come to court in a divorce case and declare to the judge that they have reached full agreement in the division of property, that there is no dispute and that everything is settled. The woman declares to the judge that she is pregnant, but not with her formal husband, but to live with another partner, and begs the court to determine the issue of paternity in the same court proceedings. He can't. The divorce case was to be completed first, then a new procedure in front of the same judge in the small court in one town in Croatia went to a second paternity dispute. And only after that could a biological father sign up as a father in the parent’s books. In 2009, there were slightly more than 5,000 divorces in Croatia, in which there were children. If only in 5% of cases there are situations where a woman gets pregnant and has a child, whose father is not a husband or ex-husband, all cases must end in the paternity dispute proceedings. Is it really necessary that we force the law of the woman to challenge the paternity before the court, for which no one else argues except the state with the mother? The state doesn't recognize who the father is, because her husband or ex-husband admits he's not a father, and the birth father admits he's a father, but the woman still has to prove to the state, dispute paternity so that the real father can be recognized as a father. In her opinion, the government wrote, if we translate this bureaucratic, fiscal language into understanding, that my proposal has nothing to do with intelligence and that it's stupid, it's not true that these children have problems and that they have serious problems as their parents do. If so, then how is it possible that the Ministry of Health has issued a solution not to grant child support that was born and alive, because there are no fathers in the book of birth, and it is not because there is exactly the case I have described to you. How is it possible that this child's right to health insurance was granted only 16 months after birth and after the Supreme Court's ruling? And not a single appeal procedure and a regular procedure could parents be entitled to the health insurance of a child born. But even by force the state has entered the name of a child, past the will of a mother and a biological father. Even the child’s name could not be chosen by real parents, but rather by official duty, the state determined the child’s name, with the excuse that the parent’s agreement had not been reached. Before I referred to the procedure a proposal to supplement and amend the law, I called for the opinion of the two institutions that, I want to believe, you believe in them too. First, after reading the existing provisions of the Family Law and my proposal, the Ombudsman wrote in his opinion that you have stated in cases where the mother of a child, the biological father and the mother's husband agree and agreed on the paternity of a child in order to avoid the court proceedings of disputing and determining the paternity of a child, which would relieve the entrenched judiciary, should only be prescribed if the paternity of a child cannot be determined by recognition. That's what the attorney general thinks. However, the Ombudsman for children also made clear on this proposal and wrote in her official document about this: for the first time in this problem, which in the number of cases in Croatia since year-on-year increased for the first time in the 2009 half-year report, the number of parents, or spouses, as well as extramarital couples who address them with the same problem of unsatisfactory provisions, existing provisions of the Family Law and informs me that she has also proposed changes to the Family Law to the competent ministry. Therefore, the Ombudsman for children also used her right to propose to the ministry that these provisions of the Family Law be amended. However, the Ombudsman’s letter to the children also states: In addition to the short-term participation of the biological father in some aspects of parental care, such a legal solution makes it difficult to regulate the child’s status. Namely, the basis of the parent’s address has been observed that the application of the child’s residence in these situations requires the consent of the mother’s husband who rarely refuses to give such consent because he does not wish to participate in any kind of child’s non - father - related procedure, so that until the end of the paternity dispute, the child’s residence cannot be reported, and without the application of the residence, the right to compensation for children cannot be paid, the birth benefits can be regulated, nor health care can be entered into the mangers. These are experiences that have been recorded and reported to the attorney general for the children. From the very one banal fact that the mother’s husband, whom the state considers to be a father, does not give consent to the child’s application at the home of the mother. As soon as he can't apply to that address, there's all these problems I've been quoting for you. It's cases where a husband or ex-husband makes an spite. He doesn't just want to give consent. And I'm asking what if he's not here? What if he really moved to South America and isn't going back to Croatia? How will a mother provide his consent to solve such a banal thing as the reporting of her child living with her at his home? Or God forbid he died. Is it true that the courts in Croatia don't have enough work to do, so we force them to conduct a procedure that looks about like this: that a mother comes before a judge and says I gave birth to a child, and he's a father. Then comes her husband or ex-husband and he says Mr. Judge I'm not the father. And here comes the biological father and says Mr. Judge, I am the father. And then the judge has to make a verdict. But it's going on. Not a month, two not three, nine to fifteen months, and it's not free. Do the judges in Croatia really have no other business but must make judicial rulings to prove to the state, first challenge, and then prove who the real father is? Why are we harassing citizens with court proceedings where they're not needed? Why do we force them to burdened courts anyway with situations where nothing is disputed among people? There were also cases of his ex-husband dying and the question of his mother proving that he wasn't his father, and he was dead, and she got the answer to pay for the DNA analysis. DNA, DNA anyway. What if it wasn't the neighbor's, is that what that means? Would it really not be sufficient to agree on a statement by a 3-year-old person in front of a competent authority such as the Centre for Social Care, based on this document of the Centre for Social Welfare, that is to say, the parent service records the real name of the biological father. And we've solved the problem and reporting the address of the residence, the child's allowance, health insurance and all the problems women face. And get it over with for now with the next one. Why is everything on the woman? Why does a woman have to initiate a paternity dispute against her ex-husband or husband? Why does a woman have to start a paternity dispute procedure? Well, she knows who the father is, and the father admits to being the father. Who's the state in conflict with? Who is this woman in conflict with her husband, her current partner, or the state? Who's against her at that point? So, a very short intervention and an addition to the proposal I made a year would reduce the number of cases in courts, but believe me, what's far more important about these couples, so once they've been through the trauma of marriages and divorces, they'll free up the troubles of stretching, stalling, and I'm not saying that they have to give such testimony to a court like this. And it would be all expensive for parents and much cheaper for the state. So, I have also called for help from the attorney general and the Ombudsman for children, whose opinions are completely contrary to the government's opinion that rejects this proposal. I want to believe that the attorney's authority for children and their attorneys and their arguments for us colleagues and colleagues are no less important than the authority and arguments of the government that says it has to stay that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69380	Thank you very much. We have one application for correction of the alleged, distinguished colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69381	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He incorrectly identified his colleague, Lesar, when he said that we were forcing courts to conduct such acts, namely such paternity procedures are being conducted in the interests of children, and fellow Lesar, if you did not know they are in the minority of municipal civil courts and at all judges and courts do not force and they are not the problems that would cause the courts to be overrun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69382	Thank you. Do the government officials want to take a word for it, Secretary of State? No Committee representatives, legislation, family, youth and sport? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. The first entry was by the Croatian Democratic Community Club and the club's position will be expressed by distinguished counterpart Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the exception of enrolling a biological father in a queen born in case all three foreign mothers, the biological father and husband of the mother agreed on the question of the origin of the child, from the father is unacceptable and unfounded. The additions proposed by the Proposer to paternity presummation contain an exception to the provision prescribed by the current Family Law that a man who is not a husband of a mother can be entered as a father of a child, if a mother, a man who is considered a father of a child and a husband of a mother agree in statements of who the biological parents of a child are. The law says exactly who is considered a child’s mother, or father. Legal presummations about parents of a child may be disputed in court proceedings. So this is not about free will, as the Proposer proposes. The largest number of real life situations covers the presummation of marital fatherhood, which determines the origin of the child from the father, when it is born in marriage or within 300 days of the termination of that marriage. The rule of law cannot be a controversial, individual situation that does not contribute to the fathering of the mother’s husband. In exceptional cases, when a husband is not a father of a child, the current family law provides for the possibility of contesting paternity in court proceedings as well as other situations that we can discuss later. The welfare and rights of a child who are always in the first place as well as the legal certainty of all entities is a circled system of determining the origin of the child to marriage presumption, the possibility of contesting the paternity and its recognition to the legal assumptions. According to the law, parental care is a responsibility, responsibilities and rights of parents to protect the welfare of the child of his personal, legal and property interests. It is the duty and right of parents to raise a child as a free human, patriotic, moral, hardworking, sensitive and responsible person, respecting the principles of gender equality to be prepared for a coherent family and social life with a positive attitude towards nature. Procedural rules have also been laid down in the dispute over marital paternity, and evidence of medical skill is then provided to guarantee trueness. It is not an exact claim that a child born to be married to a biological father who is not a husband of a mother can not exercise his right to challenge the fathership of a child born in marriage. The proposer's new provision on the establishment of paternity outside the court proceedings is also not acceptable because it identifies the identification and recognition of paternity and these are indeed different legal institutes. A proposal proposes a period of 6 months from the birth of a child for the paternity procedure by recognition, followed by the now prescribed paternity procedure in the court proceedings. That's exactly how they would put my child in a position to prevent him from exercising fundamental biological rights, which means that a child would not be enrolled in a queen born into depressed parents, would not have a personal name and the child would not get the documents necessary for the exercise of their rights. It should also be said that the working group at the Ministry of Family, Defence, and intergenerational solidarity, will, based on an analysis of the effects of the application of the Family Law by those bodies that implement it, which are courts, the Social Care Centres, family centres, assess the purpose of changes to family law to improve individual legal solutions. The Working Group is made up of experts from the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb, representatives of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, the Ministry of Justice and the Ombudsman for Children. All of these are reasons why the Croatian Democratic Community Club does not support the Proposal for this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69384	Thank you very much. It's the turn of the HNSU Club's distinguished colleague, Danica Hursa. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69385	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, respected by the legislator, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I have to express a great deal of disdain because this law, like all the opposition laws, comes so late and with a long period of time waiting for a debate in this House. That's why we don't see the reasons and we don't know why it's happening and it's not good anyway. Secondly, I would like to say that the HNS Club, HSU, will support the proposal to supplement the Family Law because these changes are better, faster and better-quality in solving the life situation of some of our families. From the examples set out in these materials, and we heard them here very clearly and in the introduction of the promoter, it is clear that we are in an obligation to help in these difficult and complicated situations of life, which would make life easier for the family and especially for children. By amending the law or by accepting these changes, we are better able to address the issue of fatherhood and motherhood of many families who are suffering at this time because of the provisions of the current law. We heard that these changes were supported by the Ombudsman for the children and the Ombudsman. Another HNS and HSU club will support this proposal to amend and supplement family law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69386	Thank you. The other clubs did not apply we therefore move to an individual debate, and the right application is the distinguished colleague Ljubice Lukačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69387	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do in my debate. I'm going to take a quick look at what the promoter said when he put out his proposal. First of all, I must say that I cannot support such a bill and that we have these amendments and amendments to the law with this proposal we also have the opinion of the Government in which the opinion of the Government has explained in detail what these reasons are that I would not be able to accept such a proposal. I fully agree with that argument, but I will briefly say a few of my views and opinions. I have to admit that when this bill came to us MPs, I gave myself a little effort, so I went to investigate to say on the ground that I would get some information on whether this would be a good way to change it the way the motionor suggested or not. Most of the municipal civil courts where I tried to get information on this topic said exactly the following opinion, that the paternity procedures are not so numerous that they do not last so long and that they are not really an obstacle to the rights of the child of all these rights that the applicant stated in his presentation. Even a few institutions that offer free legal advice agree with such a finding, so one lady asked a particular question about what Mr. Lesar said in his presentation. What happens when a mother has a baby in those 300 days when her ex-husband's paternity is over. Then the expert who gave her advice responded nicely, in a way that they told her that you had concluded a marriage with an out - of - wedlock partner, then he would sign up as the father of a child and you wouldn't have to go through all the problems you're going through right now, so you wouldn't have to go through the paternity procedure. However, the lady did not do so and now, of course, she has an additional problem. Furthermore, these legal experts also say that the circumstance that a child is born within the legal period within which the paternity of an ex-husband is to be judged to issue a child's birth certificate and to exercise all the laws of the prescribed child's rights. So this is another reason why it wouldn't be possible to accept this bill. Here's a few more information I've managed to get an opinion from the municipal civil courts. That there are a lot of cases in which adults are already growing up, so when they are only then do the paternity procedures start. When you ask your parents what you've been doing so far, they say it wasn't that important to us. What was I gonna say? Unfortunately, if there are cases, I will not say that they are frequent, but there are when parents first get married as future mates very easily, then they get a divorce even easier, and the least they can think about is their own children or children who are just about to be born. Unfortunately, out of experience, I can tell my own, because I used to do a job like this, I can say that marriage mates tend to think about how they're going to share property and whether a spoon is going to go in half or in a few parts, except that they're thinking about how they're going to solve their child's rights. And like I said, the procedures that go into paternity courts aren't that long. And when it happens that a wife who is not a father of a child, who is registered as a father of a child, cannot come to him or does not respond to calls, the court will appoint him a guardian under official duty, so it will solve the problem. In any case, my opinion is that it's better for a child, more certain that, even further in the law, in the Family Law, there is a provision like this because what you think, and it didn't happen once, that the fact that a simple mother in spite, which is unfortunately not a common case, is to say that someone is her child's father, and that's not her ex-husband, and that someone isn't really the father of a child. Here recently, just two months ago I just met one of those cases. And that after a few years when that man actually suspected that maybe he wasn't the father of the child was going to determine paternity and the DNA analysis showed that he wasn't really the father of the child. I would not be inclined to believe in people’s statements about divorce or divorce because we all know that in these circumstances people are further angry at each other or cannot agree on ordinary things, let alone what they do to each other and then do to each other out of spite of each other is not good, and all of this is to the harm of the child. In her presentation on behalf of the club, counterpart Klaric noted that the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity founded a working group. There's also a lawyer for children, there's judges, there's department heads in municipal courts dealing with these issues. Therefore, they will certainly say the consequences so far in applying the Family Law, whether he is, and probably some provisions would need to be changed, but it is certainly more useful to wait for what this working group will say and probably when they see the effects they have been, they will probably approach the creation of a new and amendment of the Family Law if necessary. Until then, I think it is in the interest of children and for the benefit of children that the Family Law in this area remains as it has been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69388	Thank you. Next up is distinguished colleague Carmela Caparin. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69389	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I'm not going to accept this bill either, especially after the presentation of the proposer himself who in his presentation says that the state doesn't care who the biological father really is, how the welfare centres force them to reveal the name of the father, then the judges have no other job, to force courts to recognize the biological father. Wouldn't it be enough for him to say that someone says he's a biological father and then write it down like that? So, disastrously one explanation of his law. In the Republic of Croatia, the law regulates the life union of women and men and of course there are legal assumptions about who is considered a child's mother, or father, in relation to motherhood and paternity. Legal presummations about parents of children may be disputed in court proceedings in accordance with the provisions of the Family Law, rather than free will, as proposed by the Proposer in this case. In your explanation, Mr. Lesar would not accept that many people are not officially divorcing but in fact, i.e. They start living separately and then, of course, they start looking for all the family law rights as if they were really together, not in fact together. So that's something that's contradictory. For exceptional cases in which the husband is not the father of a child, the Family Law provided for the possibility of contesting paternity in a court procedure. So your bill of law cannot be based on the free statements you keep mentioning but on medical skills about the origin of the child. You have cases of your mother saying someone's a father, and basically he's not a father. You also have cases that a father who willingly said that a father could say after two or three years that he was no longer a biological father. So let's not get into a situation like this. On the other hand, it is incorrect that a child born into a marriage by a biological father who is not a husband of a mother cannot exercise his right to challenge a marriage father because the legal presummation of the fatherhood of a child born in marriage exists so that a child can exercise all his rights from birth. You often say you're familiar with one case, and then you believe there's a lot of them. That really in your belief I can't be truly convinced. Furthermore, your proposal is based on assumptions, not on actual facts. For example. If we consider your exposure that 5025 marriages were broken in 2008, and then we assume that only 5% of divorces are born to a child whose father is not a mother's husband, etc. So when you pass such an important law as Family Law and Family Law Amendments, then you can no longer assume and question it. You are often contradictory in your presentation, especially to identify the identification and recognition of paternity, which is different from the legal institute. Namely, you are proposing a 6-month period since the birth of a child for paternity proceedings by recognition, and after that you would now follow the prescribed paternity procedure in court proceedings. Pure contradiction. When you get married, it's all legal. Family law regulated recognition of motherhood and paternity may indeed occur in new times, but they must all be based on modern science and on my legal basis. I wouldn't admit it right now, and I wouldn't be able to replace the DNA analysis and be the basis for this bill's proposal. As expensive as it seems to you or not expensive for a parent or anyone, for a mother, DNA is the method to prove it and which you cannot in any case avoid. From all of this, I do not accept the proposal of this law of yours. You're mentioning in your presentation both the attorney general and the attorney general for the children, so if there is anything and if it is done on a scientific basis, on a legal basis, and Ms. Attorney General... for children and public defenders with other experts from the Faculty of Law, with the Department of Family Law, with experts from the Ministry of Family, Justice, the Ministry of Health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I can improve family law if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69390	Thank you. Now it's time for a distinguished colleague of the Sun's Head. Here you go, fellow Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69391	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I believe that we can agree with the conclusion that nothing in life can actually be put into something I'm going to call it a simple catalogue of rights. But that the laws are the way that determines how we behave or the pattern of conduct and that the existing legislative framework is good, I will agree with that. This was also said by counterpart Klaric on behalf of the HDZ club. I find this proposal unfounded and unacceptable for several reasons. Namely, the promoter either does not understand or mix or identify two different institutes, which are the recognition and determination of paternity. By presummating the mother and father of the child, the Family Law provides the child with its biological origin. Always and primarily must be the protection of the rights and interests of a child which I believe exists and solves the existing law. The exemption provided by the applicant cannot be a legal provision. The law clearly determines or defines who the mother is, or the father of the child, and if there is a dispute and there are rules in the dispute, in this way it will be resolved and what it is, I will repeat again in accordance with the provisions of the existing Family Law. I ask myself the question of where would it actually lead us to do something with free will or simply with such free statements. As many fathers as we might have or wouldn't have had to banalize the whole thing. Because that's the proposaling idea. Therefore, I also believe that there is no reason to pass this law, and there is also a saying that the most important things in children's lives are safety, love, acceptance and encouragement, so we are also guided by the fact that they will ultimately make the most of the things that should be the most important, and these are the children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69392	Thank you, colleague. And the following has been reported by distinguished counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69393	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Proposer, colleague Lesar. When I listened to your presentation, and I listened very carefully to it, I was really going to say on the side of your arguments, that is, the arguments you presented, and in terms of real cases, cases that happened in reality. I didn't answer on behalf of the club but individually, because I've really put myself on a mission to think deeply about what you've been saying. I think the incidence and such cases are actually more of an exception than a rule. The law, as my colleague Glavak said, is something that is actually a general rule and relatively well-coordinated as Family Law. I mean, if we just stay at the recognition of three people, in this case three, and by not proving fatherhood in that case, I don't know if you've been thinking about what might happen, what are the consequences that could happen with the agreement of three people, and it could actually happen in the final instance of child trafficking. And it's legalized by, say, a proposal like this. Or it could happen that she's using a surrogate. Oh, no? Why not, three people made a deal. Is there any fee I'm not getting into? What were the reasons for that? I'm talking about these two possibilities that happen as you did about what happened, here are the examples in Croatia. In view of that, then, of the possibility of abuse if we were to legalize such a legal proposal and not prove it. So if it doesn't exist, and today we have such a perfect method of DNA or how you said DNA, acid or acid it doesn't matter to you in English or Latin anyway. And the Croatian DNA is DNA then it's perfectly clear that we have options, we have a way of clearly determining paternity. Since such a legal proposal can be said in which three people would agree on paternity in that case could be abused. Because of the possibility of abuse, and given the times in which we are and certain life situations in which people can be found personally, I would not be in favour of your proposal as a proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69394	Thank you. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. Does the Proposer want to take the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69395	Very short. I was expecting this outcome, and all I can see is that some people didn't understand the concepts of the existing law. My colleague Grubisic is not the subject of the family law that speaks of proof of paternity, and my amendments to the law are not about proof of paternity. It's a second procedure. The proof procedure shall be carried out when there is a dispute or doubt. This is about a completely different institute when a mother has to initiate a paternity dispute procedure and courts don't do it by DNA analysis. I assure you that this institution of paternity dispute to the ex-husband is not running DNA or DNA tests, statements. Because it's not controversial for a father or a husband or an ex-husband or for a mother who is, who is not a father. That's not the point. So, it's not the subject of my interventions when he merges the disputed paternity and conducts the process of proof. You've got that all wrong. I didn't even say it anywhere in the bill. That's it. Secondly, paternity presummation, in the eyes of people who go through these problems, major individual cases, because this is a presummation of bureaucratic nonsense, so what if they're individual cases. What if there are hundreds of such cases, we still have to stay with such a provision and not those cases allow when there is no dispute in anything to be solved. So we only have to intervene in the law if it's a million-dollar number. Otherwise, it's not serious enough to react. If only one citizen in the country can be helped, the model that remains, I did not propose to delete the provisions on the disputed paternity, no, just to supplement where the dispute is not at issue, only where no one is arguing with anyone or doubting anything. IF I had used one example of my colleagues from... I said, I used the experience of 20 cases and I completed one documentation and handed it over. I'm sorry you don't read the papers, so you don't witness these cases over and over again every week. But what was said a little astounded me, colleague Lukacic gave a nice picture of what it looks like when they came to the counseling center and asked how to solve the problem. He says they told them that you didn't marry someone else so you wouldn't have a problem right now. So why didn't you marry someone else? So in order for that woman to escape from the ranks of bureaucratic trouble, she must marry. But there is another problem, that in Croatia the bigamy is forbidden by colleagues of Lukacic, the bigamy is banned because the divorce case can last longer than 9 months so the woman cannot marry another before she is divorced, and she has the child of another partner. What did the counsellor say to her? They must be faithful, there is no divorce in Croatia, no marriages are not falling apart, no children are born, there is no such thing in Croatia at all, who has seen that we have such problems. So where's the case that a woman gave birth to a child 300 days after the divorce without her father being her ex-husband? It's controversial cases, it's being covered up, it's not allowed in Croatia in public, it doesn't actually exist. Because you didn't get married so you wouldn't have any problems. You quoted a statement at the counsellor's office that if you had married your current partner, you wouldn't have had that problem, but she couldn't get married because the divorce case isn't over. No, because she's still married to the first. What if she doesn't want to get married? What's a message? Don't give birth to bastards, that's how you acted, women are against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69396	Let's not have a colleague, Lesar, about kids being bastards here in the Parliament. I won't give you a warning, but it's not nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69397	I'm just quoting what's been said, Vice President, in Croatia, it's a rule to tell women to get married. What is not the usual word in Croatia you have never heard of? You said that to women like that, with your discussions, not me. You don't reject my proposal, you don't reject the solution to my problem, you refuse to help those people you have addressed for help. That's what this is about, you're refusing to help them, you're saying you don't need it, okay. IF IT'S not true that these kids don't have a problem, I've quoted you as the 2009 Attorney General's report that says he has problems. You say it's not true. And in the end that a new working group has been formed to make new amendments to the Law of the Family, you know that the Government's opinion when it was written on 15 April 2010 will be a year. The section still writes changes to the Family Law. And she'll solve those problems. This is a stamping, copy paste problem, every proposal the opposition government must refuse, says a working group is formed that will solve this problem more wisely, better, better. And I'd like each of you to say that this proposal is stupid and unnecessary to sit down and talk to at least one of those women who's been through these cases, that after talking to them, you're saying whether or not family law should be done. If not in such content as I wrote, if I do not know how to write bill proposals, ask the Ministry to intervene urgently with its proposal and will surely be accepted when the Government proposes. It doesn't matter whose law is going to be passed. It's important that we open up the possibility in the Family Law when there's no paternity dispute, when no one argues except where the problem of the state is on the other hand, that it goes as quickly as possible, as easily as possible, and that's a move in favour of the rights of the child. To have his biological father, who lives with him, who feeds him, who loves him, but for so long until the judgment comes, he is not his father. And finally, when all the proceedings end when the mother contests the paternity of the ex-husband, when the biological father elects for the right of paternity, whether DNA analysis or not, you know what else they need to do, initiate a third court procedure to enroll the child's last name father. This is the third court case, because under the force of the current Law, a child will be entered in the name if the agreement is not made by the state and by the last name of the mother's husband or ex-husband. When all this goes through, there's still a third court case to change the name or last name of the child and put it right in the books. Now tell me that's not true either. Read the 2009 Ombudsman’s report for children, she writes about it, she cites these examples, and uses the expressions of an increasing number. If you don't believe me, I can give you copies of those documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69398	Thank you. We now have a few corrections of the quote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here's my colleague Caparin, what's been hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69399	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague has been injured by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 214. And I ask you to give him a warning because he has deviated from all the general rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament with such a dictionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69400	I did it right away, here he was next to me, warned, and he certainly agrees that the term was not right, and that we're talking now I believe he wouldn't use it. ... I would. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Then let's keep it that way. My colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69401	It is not true that a colleague named Lesar claimed that this was one only administrative coup and that it could be solved in such a way. Unfortunately, this bill, no matter how much we agree with this issue, is also against the European Convention on the Protection of Children, which, which is with which our Family Law is fully agreed, because the European Convention requires that the decision to establish, challenge paternity and motherhood as well as the decision to trust the child be exclusively in the jurisdiction of the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69402	Thank you. Then a colleague, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69403	Thank you very much. So here's the incorrect quote of Mr. Proposer, Mr. Lesar when he says we only have to intervene in the law if it's a million-dollar number. This is really incorrect, because exactly the institution of recognition of paternity in front of bodies such as the parent, and the Centre for Social Care perfectly regulates the existing Family Law. Because, Mr. Lesar, the Family Law says that a paternity admission requires the consent of a child's mother. And I have to say that besides confusing and confusing the concepts, that is, the institutions of recognition and determination, you have mixed and confused the institute, too, who can challenge paternity, challenge paternity. So I'm going to tell you that challenging paternity can be the mother's husband, the mother of a child, the man who has confessed to paternity and the man who considers himself the father of a child under different circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69404	Thank you very much. Then the correction of the quote by colleague Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69405	Comrade Lesar, I'm sorry you didn't listen to me. When I, I didn't say first of all, so it's an incorrect assumption, I didn't say that they told her that they didn't marry her, but I was talking about the case where the lady divorced her marriage, so she had a divorce, so they told her what she didn't marry an out-of-marriage partner with whom she was expecting a child to get rid of all the problems. And it would be good for all those who address you with such problems to warn them to think a little bit about what they are doing in their lives, who they are divorcing marriage with, who they are remarrying with, who they are giving birth to children with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69406	Thank you. And my colleague Grubisic, even if Lesara's colleagues are gone, but for the record, you can correct it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69407	And now that Lesara's gone, what am I going to fix? Here's what Lesar said was not about the recognition or proof of paternity, which has been the most common case in this country so far. So paternity was the main problem, and in terms of alimony, etc. Now it has come as he says in order to challenge paternity as a new category, and in fact contesting or acknowledging one and the same because it is about determining a biological father, whether you dispute or admit it. Now, if I were to be sure that the new regulation proposed by the applicant would not lead to a practice in which the legislation could be misused, then I would be happy to be in favour of this regulation, and for the solution to these cases that are here he says 20 in Croatia, 20 of them for these 20 years of the Croatian state, I don't know if it's much or little, but the whole one system changes and introduces something that is, it leads to doubt that it can be abused. I said in what sense. From child trafficking to the institution of surrogate mother etc., and that should also be considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69408	Thank you, dear colleague. We have heard a lot about legal regulation, and about practice, and in examples. And in the end, if we don't agree with anything, then we'll agree to that sentence that my colleague Lesar said where there is no dispute, let's not create it. So I remember the example when one doctor was late for a meeting, so I ask him what happened, so he says the man came all alert, the woman was born 6 months old, says, so he asks what would happen to the baby, so he says I call the hospital all right, 3 and a half kilos, 52 centimeters, and he says what to say to him than possible in the first one, the other kids are already more complicated, if they're born at 6 months and they're still all right. But yeah, we're moving on. Does the Proposer want it? Nothing. If not, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69409	Proposal for a law supplementing family law. Proposing representative Dragutin Lesar. In accordance with the proposal of the Government and the Parliamentary Legislative Committee, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on complementarity of family law is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. The result? With 72 votes for, 13 abstentions and 14 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69410	We are going to the next legislative proposal, which is – - Proposal for a Law on the Commissioner for Information, first reading, P.Z. No. 562 is proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club. ... We received it by mail. [[You don't understand.]] The government gave an opinion. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, as referred to in Articles 144 to 156. The committees also discussed this law, namely the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Reports from the board's session have been received. Would the proposing representatives like to take the floor? Yeah. Dear fellow MP Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69411	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representative of the ministry. The SDP referred the bill to the procedure in June 2010. So before the procedure is referred to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information. So after this proposal, the Government sent amendments to the Law on the right to access information and this law was discussed and passed in December 2010. Some of the things that this bill wants to settle are governed by these amendments to the Law on the right to access information. Some, but not all, and those who are arranged are not arranged in a sufficiently good way, not in such a good way as this law provides. Let us first look at the state of the area of the right to access information. The bodies of the public authorities which are obliged to comply with the provisions of the law have not reached a sufficient degree of education in order to implement this law. Another major problem is that many public authorities do not comply with the provisions of the law in the sense that they have not formed information services. And then, which is particularly worrying, it often happens that public authorities voluntarily, without a legal foothold, deny citizens information that should be available in accordance with the law. And there is no independent body that would assess the public interest in publishing information containing a secret mark in accordance with the provisions of this law. There was no second-degree body prior to the amendment of the Law on the right to access information. This second-degree body has been introduced, it is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. She was introduced as a second-degree body. However, we consider this a bad solution because this proposal provides for this Commissioner to oversee the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. Therefore, the Commissioner for Information would be an independent and independent state body. It would decide on complaints against a public authority's solution in the first instance; it would monitor the implementation of laws and regulations governing access to information; it would monitor the implementation of laws and regulations that regulate the security and processing of personal data; it would oversee the work of the Personal Data Protection Agency because its work is now unsupervised, it is that, it is precisely the second-degree body that oversees itself and what is most important it would judge the public interest of publishing data in cases where the competent authorities refuse to give insight into data for data protection. This judgment of public interest has not been introduced into the amended Law on the right to access information, and we consider this to be the greatest pain. In fact, someone must judge whether something is a public interest and whether this public interest is above the interest of protecting a particular information because it was declared by the public authorities, for example. A secret. I will give an example from 2007 when journalist Mrs. Berkovic, today an external member of the Committee on Media, Information and Information, sent a request to the Government to deliver to her the agendas of her closed sessions and conclusions from these closed sessions. The government has declared it a secret. At those closed sessions, it was debated and decided on the distribution of public money. When the Administrative Court gave Ms. Berkovic the right because he had to carry out administrative proceedings before the Administrative Court, it was established that 70 million kuna at these closed cabinet sessions was divided into a church. It's public money and certainly public interest exists that citizens know where their money goes. And certainly that can't be as secret as the government has declared it a secret. And that logic has to be a body, and here he would be the Commissioner of the Parliament, who would judge whether it's a secret or a public interest in finding out. As we see the practice, the current practice requires that such a body be introduced because when the government does not want to comply with the law itself, which the parliamentary majority has voted here, rather than being drawn to a state secret where there is no state secrets or can be because it is the spending of public money that we need such an ombudusman. The Commissioner would be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the president of the Republic of Croatia. So, not the parliamentary minority, not the parliamentary majority, not the conflict between parties, but the institution of the highest representative body of the person representing, representing the Republic of Croatia and elected in the direct elections. On his proposal, he would, but neither could he name him on his own, but the Parliament would vote him on the proposal of the President of the Republic. He'd have a five-year term with the possibility of a re-election not being exactly rooted in this function. Therefore, regardless of the amended Law on the right to access information, some areas have not been resolved, the judgment of the existence of an assessment of public interest has not been decided, and therefore we believe that this law would be welcome. He would force public authorities to respect the Law on the right to access information because this ombudusman would have the right to oblige them to do so, to give them orders not to conduct administrative proceedings but to give them orders to choose upon the request of the authorising officer if he considers that the request is justified and that he is in the public interest. What are all the possibilities of avoiding this law? Here is a colleague, Jovanovic, who told me that I do not know how many written parliamentary questions to individual ministries, or to all ministries. Therefore, the bodies of the public authorities not only occasionally do not respect their obligations under the law to citizens, not only do they not respect their obligation under the Law to the media, journalists, I have already cited the example, but sometimes they do not respect the obligation to parliamentarians. Not even to the MPs. So, fellow Jovanovic referred the question to the ministries very simply, did your ministry deal with FIMI MEDIA? Those ministries that didn't do business with Fimi-Media said we didn't do business. And some ministries, or several ministries, have answered him that he cannot answer that question. Why can't he? Because there's some kind of investigation going on over Fimi-Media. The law makes it clear that information can be cut short only about the investigation, criminal, investigative procedure. So now I can't refer to the State's Attorney's Office a question based on this Law on the right to access information and say that you in some procedure have examined this person or that person. Well, of course they don't have to answer that because it's part of the process. But the MP asks the ministry if it did business with a company, and the answer is not only a matter of facts, whether it had a business relationship with a company or not, then this kind of response is actually a avoidance of the obligation under the right to access information under that law. If there were an Ombudsman, he would have ordered the ministry to deliver that information and the matter would have been resolved. Or the Ombudsman would have the right to judgment, so he would answer the MP Jovanovic, I don't think it's in the public interest. It's your private interest to find out if any of the ministries have dealt with Fimi-Media or not it's none of your business to the public at all, it's not a public interest, so the ministry doesn't have to give you that information. But in any case, there would be a body, a body that would make such a decision and judgment. As we can see from the bill, that person would indeed be independent. We know who has the parliamentary majority at this time, so the person proposed by the President of the Republic would not have to vote in favour of that parliamentary majority. There would therefore be a need for consensus between the proposings and the parliamentary majority, which guarantees the independence of a truly independent position of such a person, which would certainly mean a lot of trust in that person, which would ultimately mean better protection of public interest. Because the public's interest is to get answers to questions that are of the same public interest. It can't be in the public's interest that some questions are declared secret and where secrets don't exist or secrets should not be. Because such secrets often hide cloudy decisions, illegal actions, and this is all revealed many years later when it's a little late and it's no longer worth crying over spilled milk. And the milk should not have been spilled in time for information. Therefore, because of the very way of choosing this Commissioner, because of his crucial role in assessing the public interest, because he could not be a man or a parliamentary majority or a parliamentary minority, but would be a public man to say in some way, we think it would be in the interest and parliamentary majority to accept this, to show that he does not want to hide anything in the future, to show that he does not want to avoid or play the law, to show in action what the words say he wants to be transparent, open, fair, because any refusal of this kind of law, of course, will, rather than in public with the media, cause citizens to suspect a very likely reasonable doubt, that the refusal of such an Ombudsman wishes to continue with the current practice of concealing information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69412	Thank you. Does the government's representative want to get involved further? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the esteemed representative, Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69413	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to begin by saying what is logical in the end that the SDP club will support the adoption of this law in the first reading, and we hope that this debate will also in some way encourage the representatives of the ruling parties to change their opinion and to still support this bill in order to have the opportunity to discuss it in the second reading. In this regard, when we talk about the right to access information, we should say that the right to access information is one of the most important flows of democratic society, and it is crucial in this respect that a highly developed democratic society with high standards of respect for human rights, respect for civil society, etc. has just developed this component, i.e. that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the possibility of exercising the right to access information. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia is not one such state, regardless of what we are, a democratic society shows a report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information that we cannot boast very much in this area. Namely, this law was passed in 2003 at the very end of the term of the coalition government of Ivica Racan, and this was a very, very significant step towards raising standards of transparency, public authorities and citizens of the Republic of Croatia very positively assessed the law. In the end, the first report on the implementation of this law, which showed a considerable interest in citizens and citizens, even though they were just getting to know the possibilities adopted by this law. Since then, unfortunately, we see that the report says that every year, the interest of the public, citizens and citizens in obtaining information from the body of the public authority falls from year to year. The reason for this is certainly not because citizens are not interested in what public authorities are doing or because certain authorities have established a catalogue of information and have appointed responsible persons in their bodies who are obliged to provide information to citizens and citizens, but because they have met at the very beginning with this circumstance that, regardless of what public authorities are talking about and asking for information that is relevant to them by public authorities, they do not receive satisfactory or non-response, even in cases where they call on the provisions of the law on access to information. Of course, the reason for that was a lot. One part of the reason surely rests in the inertness of bureaucracy, i.e. the lack of education of persons who are obliged to provide information according to this law. Partly the reason why the public authorities are not generally interested in public and transparent and ultimately, is also because the public authorities in a large number of cases do not even want to give the information that the public in Croatia has the right to know. Since the situation has deteriorated year by year, as we have warned during each debate on the report on the implementation of this law, we have decided to refer this law to the legal procedure, the Law on the Commissioner for Information because we believe that it is through the body of Commissioners who would be in the ranks of the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman that could correct existing irregularities in the system that allow the right and true respect of this extremely important law for the Republic of Croatia. And then there is one situation, that after the SDP Club sent this draft law to the Government of Croatia, despite the fact that all interested public were mostly against such a law because it does not address the worst things that have been observed so far in the implementation of the Law on Access to Information, which refers to what the colleague Stazic just said, establishing the meaning of public interest and that second-degree body, or Commissioner body that will be able to force public authorities to respect and implement the Law on Access to Information. The only good thing about this rejection of our bill, or the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on this proposal of the law, came in July 2010 and the question arises why we are only discussing this bill in the 2nd month of 2011 and it is not long after the time of adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Law on the right to access to information. And it would be a minimum of political correctness if this bill of ours had been discussed in parallel with the Government's Law on the right to access information because probably even then, in some way, the debate on these two bill proposals would have been of greater synergy. So the only positive thing about the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that, in its opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia acknowledges that there have been certain shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the seven-year application of the Law on the right to access information. Namely, all previous reports on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information received from the competent authority or the Government of the Republic of Croatia could give the impression that there were absolutely no problems and no shortcomings and that the Law on the right to access information was precisely idyllic and perfectly implemented which was not, of course, the case. And that is why it is nice to read in this opinion that the SDP club was right, however, when it warned year after year about the report on the implementation of this law that the law, i.e. the implementation of that law, had very, very large shortcomings. Unfortunately, in its opinion, the Government calls for then a further proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the right to access information and argues that many of the things that we wanted with the Commissioner's law on information to be corrected, or to allow for the real implementation of this law to be corrected by their proposal for a law that proved to be true during the public debate on the Government's draft law, was not the case. The most controversial thing in the whole story about the law that has already entered into force, which was adopted in December 2010, is this second-degree body, and this second-degree body, the Government has decided to appoint the Personal Data Protection Agency, which is quite absurd because the Director of the Personal Data Protection Agency is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which means that the head or head of that Agency is under direct authority and directly influenced by the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that it will certainly not be able to be an independent body that will be able to exercise quality control over the implementation of the Law on the right to access to information. This is rather unusual and therefore we must conclude that it was not in the government's interest to really correct the situation with the implementation of the Law on Access to Information, i.e. to really force public authorities to respect this extremely important law of the Republic of Croatia but it was the whole idea behind such a solution to cloud the eyes of the public, to create the impression that the Government was listening to the opinions of the interested public and that it decided to correct the Law on the right to access to information which we consider to be in fact a diametric opposite of what was indeed a real interest. Since I have just worked in the Ministry of Environmental Protection on public relations and I know how public authorities are generally treated by this law, I can say that the law is scandalously not implemented. Namely, persons in charge of the implementation of this law not only do they not treat all the enquiries that come to the provisions of the article, the provisions of the Law on the right to access information which is not a condition of law but every request which comes by written means, by fax, either by e-mail, by telephone, or by personal means in the conversation should be treated as a means of request for information in accordance with this law, because then you would believe the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access to information if all these requests were recorded completely different-looking, and you would not have some 2,000 registered requests throughout the year from all public authorities, which is precisely scandalous data. I will look back a little bit on the second part of the Government's opinion concerning certain elements of our law on the Commissioner, in which the Government is in fact being negatively visible about this bill of ours because it bothers them that in our bill the Commissioner would appoint a Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Croatia. We have opted for such a variant because we believe that the President of the Republic of Croatia as one person who must not be a member or member of any political option in the Republic of Croatia would definitely not be influenced by any day-to-day policy and would not be interested in proposing to that place the person under his control. That is why we do not see that this would be something controversial in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and that this would significantly extend the powers of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Then the Government has little to do with the provision where they are surprised by the definition of the necessary work experience, where they say it is not clear now whether it is working experience in the profession or independent of the profession, and if they were so bothered by it, they should have said that, we are giving a positive opinion about the law but then it can be corrected by some amendments to another reading, and also other technical details on which the Government insists and which are concerned mean that there is no President of the Public Ombudsman, but only the ombudsman and his deputies are really things that are very technical type and should not be put in my opinion of the Government on any draft law that should be in relation to what the meaning of the law is. And the purpose of the law is to establish a system that will enable a quality and real implementation of the Law on the right to access information and which is not the case now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69414	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the esteemed representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69415	Thank you very much. Well, a colleague of mine said incorrectly that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data cannot, is not independent and cannot be independent by the fact that the head of that agency is appointed by the Government. We must once get rid of it and realize that these and other agencies whose leaders are appointed by the Government have their own independent position, their structure and their own detour. And as such, their obligation to act independently is guaranteed by law. And some of me would say personal maybe obedience moves for fear of losing our position can't be taken as a rule and we can't take priority as if those agencies weren't independent. They are because the law in some cases and the Constitution gives them such a position.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69416	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Commissioner Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69417	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When we passed the Law on Access to Information, it was indeed one of the first major steps in the fight against corruption. And indeed, despite the fact that many institutions were later established, many laws have been passed in the fight against corruption, the amended Penal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act, in order to improve our institutional fight against corruption but also normative. It is necessary to remain in this situation and, in particular, repeat that the Law on the right to access information is the most important preventive law, the most important law in the fight against corruption. Because you'll all agree that such things, especially the most difficult ones, are the best way to prevent them, because after a repressive way, it's always much harder, with very uncertain results and with a huge cost to the country itself. So, as it turns out, this has already been said by my colleagues on behalf of the promoter and on behalf of the SDP Club, there has been a series of shortcomings in the application of this Act which is later something, or the law on the right to access information. So that's what offered our club, the SDP club, to come up with a bill like this, a bill establishing a new institute, a special commissioner for information. Why it's good and why it's necessary. This simple and our experience practice in applying the existing law and inadequate protection of those seeking information tells us that it is necessary to install a special person who is about to protect information seekers. Every power should be, it's in the beginning suspicious and every power should be checked. The power is not on the defendant's bench that someone else is proving her guilty, but the government must constantly be questioned and prove itself to be doing something right, and that its actions are legal. Let's just remember the beginning of the action in 2004 when the Administrative Court condemned the Prime Minister at the time, because the journalist refused to give any information. What were the consequences of the death of the President of the Administrative Court, and being removed from office? Of course, it was covered by other reasons. There has also been a mention here of how a citizen can get information, when here we are with the parliamentary deputies, who we are asking very specific and clear questions we get answers that are not. You're getting general answers, you're talking about the very thing, and in the core, it's not responding to the core. For such answers the student would get a unit at school, but the government is enough to give such an answer, which has nothing to do with the question, and it's still considered an answer, it can't be an answer, it's an act of abuse of the law itself. After all, the question arises as to why other countries have ombudsmans, who are much more aware, and where countries are much more public bodies open up to citizens than they are with us. Well, here's neighbouring Slovenia, she has an ombudsman's commissioner for information. And why is such a fear of such a single person? After all, we have a very controversial provision that a person, or a public body, who must give his information to the public only by running away from fear, from condemning the public at all on a certain matter, such behaviour, or such an act of his own, classifies itself with secrecy. In such cases, the public test shall be carried out everywhere by this person, the Ombudsman, or the Commissioner for Information. He is conducting this test to the public whether something is in the public interest to be made public or is really some secret, a state secret that must be hidden from the eyes of the public, not that the citizens would not know, but because of their own safety, for the sake of the country's safety. However, which is rich in Croatian recent and a little further history, that often illegal actions, and even some suspicious actions, i.e. actions of serious foundation, are suspected of serious criminal acts, covered and hidden under the cloak of protection of national interests. A lie can never be placed under the protection of national interests, because national interest is not defended by lies, illegality, criminal acts of any kind, but by the least serious criminal acts, but by truth and law. Unfortunately, everything that is today covered and classified as a secret is questionable from the point of view of legality. And we're asking that the weeds, that the weeds of such a protection be revealed. When we proposed this bill, our basic password was public knowledge, and we remain. What does the government have to fear? There are two problems. First of all, how the government understands. We don't have any sense of responsibility today. It is believed that it is enough to gain power in the elections and that there is no one to question that authority anymore, because the citizens have said everything. No, I don't. The citizens just said something. So we have a pre-political state that the gain of the election is understood that the government will and answer questions as it pleases. It can't be. After all, what kind of written answers do we receive, what kind of journalists receive written answers? It's hard and it's not. It is difficult for people to now dare to start an administrative dispute, which is otherwise long-lasting, precisely because of the overloading of the Administrative Court. However, the most obvious example is when at the current afternoon the government is apparently responding to the public, so a public vote. How does she respond? His feelings, his demeanor, when asked specifically about certain things, he demeans himself, difams, and disqualifies what he dares to ask. So you should understand exactly, it's our biggest problem for the government to realize that it's not there for anything but for responsibility. It can be understood differently and so on, but they're also wrong. We're working legally, so why do you doubt us? You have to work legally, and you have to explain it. Because the opposition has the right, the citizens have the right to doubt, and there is the authority to constantly interpret the legality of their actions. So, here, by supporting, of course, this proposal of the Commissioner for Information, we remind you once again of the ruling and the Government that speaks, please help fight corruption, zero rate against, zero tolerance to corruption, so understand once again that the law on access to information and this bill, which is then, we have one round, one whole, so I am the Institute of Information Commissioners, can contribute most to the right not only that the government does not stray from the path of legality but that it is legally acting and that all of those later actions that we have foreseen as corrupt crimes at all come to them and does not come.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69418	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First distinguished representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69419	Thank you very much. Inaccurately, MP Anticevic Marinovic said that the President of the Administrative Court was injured because the Administrative Court passed a verdict that allegedly did not like the government. That's incorrect. The President of the Administrative Court then completed his mandate up to the regular term until the term of office. In a regular process of electing the court president for the next term, Minister Simonovic appointed another person, another candidate, for his assessment that his work programme was better quality. Therefore, no causal link or coincidence of time was made between the verdicts and, according to a representative of the death of the Supreme Court president. And I don't even know if she's aware, the administrative court is sorry, and she's even aware of how hard and unfounded the charges are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69420	Thank you very much. ... Please don't throw away, just take it easy. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction of an incorrect allegation, distinguished representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69421	Well, the MP said the government was responding to the file on parliamentary issues, so I guess she wanted to say in that context that the government wasn't answering the questions of the MPs in the current class. I have to say that the Government overruled, it's incorrect, I think that the Government overly still fits what questions are asked that are very offensive and provocative and that are precisely coming from your party. So I think that the government is extremely correct and indirect in its answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69422	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative Sonja Simunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69423	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, Ingrid, I liked your formulation very much, and that's when you said that the proposal of this law is, in fact, about the Commissioner for Information, a preventive law in the fight against corruption. That's where I absolutely agree with you. Because if certain people and certain institutions had had some information for the past few years or even more, that some issues were being discussed publicly, that many of the problems that the citizens referred to were courageously opening up, and also the opposition, that means some information wasn't being hidden like a snake hiding its feet, then they wouldn't wake up one day like we woke up and realized that the state had been robbed along and across, that corruption had unmistakably devastated only the tissue of our country and all our wealth. On the other hand, colleague Holly said that the right to access information is, in fact, the most important or one of the most important flows of democratic societies. I agree with that, too. We are a young democracy, we are a young society. Our democracy is only about 20 years old and I'm actually not surprised that we have a condition like this that doesn't satisfy us. Democracy is not only on paper, democracy is not electoral laws, the law on access to information, democracy is a consciousness in our heads, in the heads of citizens, in the heads of politicians, until this consciousness grows and reaches a satisfactory level then we must bring as many mechanisms as possible. One of them is this proposal of the Law on the Commissioner for Information. And I believe that over time and during maturation we will come to one level when all information will actually be available and when there will be no mugging, hiding, but there will be one general transparency. And that will ultimately lead to a better and more prosperous society than we deserve in the end all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69424	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It's time to introduce Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm gonna say right away: I can't support this bill for a few reasons. Most colleagues who spoke before me have already said that last year we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Information, and by that law we formed an independent body, namely an independent body, which is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, so as an independent body for the protection of the right to access to information that exercises control over the implementation of the Law on Access to Information, performs the tasks of the second-degree body in resolving complaints and all other tasks set out in the law. By establishing a new body as would be, or an institution, as would be the Commissioner for Information, I think we would actually get nothing more and nothing better than we will have with the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data because here is what the Commissioner should do more or more than that will do this agency. On the other hand, here is from the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we have been delivered here exactly here are a few things that are actually not acceptable when it comes to this bill. I looked at these articles of the law a little bit, so I believe that the SDP colleagues had the best intentions and I don't mean anything by it, but if this information commissioner had the same status as the D.A.'s attorney, then he'd be a state official. And here in Article 7, therefore his deputies would also be state officials, and Article 7 when it comes to the deputy commissioner, it is said that the deputy commissioner has the status of a civil servant. So these are now some things that maybe even nomotechnically here should be fixed. Furthermore, what I would notice here is that if this bill were to be adopted, we would also have to change the powers of the President of the Republic, because in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, it does not say that the president would propose such a single Commissioner for Information. And there are still a number of things to talk about, but it seems to me that when we get the next report, so this year for the last year we'll already have a chance to see a step forward, because it's not true when she spoke to her colleague Holly when she spoke on behalf of the club that all the reports we had so far on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information were good and idyllic, etc. On the contrary, it was written in them what should be done and that it was not all right and that we discussed it and that many units of local and regional (regional) self-government did not provide a report within the legal time limit. So it wasn't exactly like that that everything was idyllic. And in the end, these reports just gave rise to the need. On several occasions I remember in two last reports here Mr. Secretary of State is here so he can say that even in two latest reports he was just being warned about how to access the amendments to the law. I think that by amending the law, we've covered everything that was necessary and there's no need at this moment to pass one of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69426	Thank you. We have two replicas. She's the first law-abiding representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69427	Dear colleague Lukačić, I will not correct your incorrect allegations but I will warn you that if everything was not as idyllic as you claim in the report or that the reports were not written in such a way that everything was good and perfect, the question is why nothing was done to improve the situation. In fact, you are also aware that all ministries are the majority of the public authorities, and ultimately in a large number of units of local self-government in a large number of units of regional self-government precisely your party or coalitions in which your party participates in power. So why didn't you use authority within your own political options to change things for the better, because you had absolute all the mechanisms to make something like that. And we see that the situation from year to year has been getting worse and worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69428	Thank you. And replicated representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lukacic isn't here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69430	No waiting, you say the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69431	I'm still gonna say what I thought. My colleague Lukačić very well established and observed what was happening in the reports that we discussed here every year and established that there were also reports of shortcomings in the application of the law. That's one thing. Secondly, as well as that the parliamentary majority and parliamentary opposition pointed out the fact that the law passed in 2003, which we heard was a very big step in fact, after 7 years of applying, was a law that had to be brought into line with the EU acquis and that the Croatian government was independent when the opposition referred to the procedure of its Commissioner for Information Act, that the government had already come to draft the law in its first reading, and we adopted it in December 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69432	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. It's our guest, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69433	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Well, this bill is quite interesting, but it's late with it, the SDP is late because as the government knows, somewhere last year at 12 months, it was just changing the law on access to information, and a lot of things have changed qualitatively. Surely, the right to access information is one of the most important political rights of citizens because it is an essential prerequisite for freedom of opinion. I will also remind you that the Republic of Croatia is one of the 24 countries of the European State that have and in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia the right to access information. As I said, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has seen certain shortcomings and has therefore proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the right to access information and these amendments and additions, in principle, all those shortcomings which have proved to be bad in the seven-year application of this law have been removed. To visit, it's the 2003 law. This also introduces a more meaningful exercise of supervision of law enforcement, as well as punishment for the offence of a responsible person in public authorities who does not provide an annual report on the implementation of the law within the prescribed time limit and content. Appeals concerning a solution to the refusal of the information request shall be resolved much faster. In an appeal against a first-degree solution, the central government shall adopt a solution within 30 days of the date of submission of the complaint, a more high quality definition of the right to information and bodies of the public authority shall be defined. The proposed amendments and additions to the law also comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The exemption of the right to information from payment of administrative fees, after the adoption of legal provisions to punish the responsible persons. I also think that it should be noted that exactly the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as an independent body has its capacity to oversee the implementation of the law. So I think that many things have improved in that part, and there is no need in all to generate additional costs to the state budget by setting up new institutions, hiring new employees when most of these issues that you are now listed in this bill are in principle resolved through these amendments and amendments to the law, but also through this agency that monitors the implementation of this law. So as far as I'm concerned, I think it's a little late with the motion to pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69434	Thank you. First, we have one correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Mirela Holly, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69435	Dear colleague Kunst, I am correcting your incorrect allegations that you have twice said that the SDP is late with this bill of law. No, the SDP is not late with this bill. If you had looked a little bit further, you would have seen that the SDP sent this law to the procedure in the middle of last year, and that the ruling majority, or the ruling majority in the Presidency of this Parliament, decided to put it on the agenda of the plenary session only seven months after we had referred the bill to the procedure. The question arises, and I said that when I spoke on behalf of the club, which is why it was not decided that this bill of law that went into the procedure much earlier than the Government's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Information had not been discussed with each other, so then I think a little better synergy solutions would have been achieved than here now that we are discussing our post-festum on this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69436	Thank you very much. Your time is up. We have two replicas. First is the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kunst, you encouraged me to this replica when you said that it was important that the public had access, secured access to information and that the government had actually provided between the rest and this last Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the right to access information since the end of last year access to information. However, this also in a certain way moved me to think that it was unacceptable, and here other colleagues could be heard that something should not be known and because of the blasphemy of secrecy. So that's for sure, when it comes to god's secrecy, it's not acceptable. But we heard the same here in the debate and how there was a debate by the SDP under the motto when it comes to how the public has the right to know. I think one and the other is actually a syntagm equally dangerous in their own way. So, on the one hand, when someone says there's something you can't know because of secrecy, and there's no secrecy, so it's hiding something, it's dangerous. It's also dangerous to declare and invoke that the public has the right to know everything. So here's what we see in the daily press is the information that's being published from the proceedings that are just being carried out by the unfinished, there's pressure on, or public opinion is forming, pressure on the courts, etc. On the other hand, we have also witnessed how the public had the right to know, so from the Office of Presidents at a time when there was no need, given what had to be and what had not to be done and when it was coming out of context, so from the context of these documents in a certain way, some truths that someone had to know more, and then are tried both for Croatia and generally for some of the people because of some of the procedures that they did not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69438	Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69439	So, I think we should take very responsibility for this syntagma that the public has the right to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69440	Replicate response, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69441	Dear fellow, there's really nothing controversial about it, and there's no reason for anyone to keep any information from the public. Certainly, the public authorities may not have responded in time, have not answered certain questions, but, as I have said, these amendments and additions to the Law on the right to access information have gone to the fact that, in fact, such persons and such individuals are being punished and that a period is being set within which public authorities have to, and the responsible persons of those bodies must answer if they do not do so in the future. So in some ways we've just avoided what it was, the fact is that there have been some problems with certain public authorities, but there's no reason for that anymore. And I don't think there's really anything to hide and everything that's public must be transparent and the public must have information about it and it's not disputed and that's where we agree I believe both left and right and middle. It's nothing so controversial, but I don't think it's necessary to generate additional costs to the state, create a new institution, create new employment when it's already settled by other regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69442	Thank you. And we have another replica. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69443	Comrade Kunst, if your main objection is why this law should not be accepted that the SDP is late then we are on horseback, then you will vote for this law because the SDP is not late. He let this law go into procedure six months before the government released its bill. Therefore, the SDP was not late, the government was late. Secondly, you're saying that the amended law on the right to access information solves all issues. It doesn't solve all of us, it solves many and solves many things well, but it doesn't solve all of them. Like what? does not address the issue of judgment of public interest, which is a key issue. Does the public have a right to know everything? Well, there's no public right to know everything, but someone has to decide what the public doesn't have the right to know. So it's closely linked to judgment of public interest. And finally, you say extra costs. Well, for example, as presented by journalist Berkovic, the government denied information about the 70 million kuna award it brought to a closed session, and did not want the public to know. She wanted to hide it from the public, so Berkovicki did not answer her request, so the woman had to start a administrative dispute. And you see, how much would this information commissioner cost, that would certainly be several hundred times less than 70 million kunas the government has hidden.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69444	Thank you. Replicate response, distinguished representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69445	Thank you very much. Comrade Stazic, it's better to be on horseback than on donkey, if you can be chosen. But look, when you say someone needs to follow what's available to the public, which will be what won't be available to the public. So you know that it's done by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, that it's just overseeing the implementation of this Act on Access to Information so that we know one and the other who basically takes care of what he can, what he can't be. There is nothing controversial and it works quality as an independent body. But I think you could also agree that in this situation there is really no reason for a new institution to organize, hire new people. Well, you didn't even say in your proposal how much it would cost. So in this bill, you haven't even made any calculations to tell the public, look at that new institution or that new man with his job and possibly the deputy, and I don't know who else there should be to cost this country as much, to hear the citizens in this situation when we really don't have the money to waste what it would cost them, etc. Then maybe we can talk more correctly and more specifically. I don't see why you didn't calculate it and you could. There's no secret there. We don't have to keep it a secret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69446	Thank you. Let's move on to an individual debate, distinguished representative Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69447	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, it's been seven years since we passed the Law on the right to access information and the five-year GONG law enforcement research has been a bit devastating. Hundreds of appeals and administrative disputes prove it. Moreover, the results of the survey show that the law has not fully achieved its purpose, i.e. that the law does not guarantee the exercise of rights if a body of public authority or who does not wish to provide information. Citizens are faced with the silence of the administration, the fact that deadlines are not respected, that this administration gives formal answers, but not contentious, that they are often called for secrecy and that they end up being lost in some months or several years of procedures, complaints, corrections, disputes. And in that I would say absurd game of bureaucracy should really have a lot of nerves, should have enormous patience and at least a degree in legal science. It's not even a guarantee that you'll eventually get what you're right to and what you're looking for. Sometimes it is so easy to get the impression, and especially when I listen to some colleagues on the other hand, of course we have given up the further development of the political system in our society and as if we have given up on ensuring additional, quality, normative assumptions and frameworks for the development of democracy. It is as if there is no more will or motivation to continue to remove barriers by reviving the culture of the political system's democracy. It is a pity that I believe that changes are needed, that they are also needed in the creation of a quality legislative framework and in the implementation of the law. Because I think we've made an appointment on the first and second issues. Yes, of course transparency, openness, public administration is a fundamental assumption of democracy. We've heard that a lot of times. But that's not enough to just say it. And we offer you an opportunity to do something concrete in that sense. The legislative framework must simply enable an individual to access information directly or indirectly regarding his life freely and uninterruptedly. In doing so, political and other elites, I should also make it impossible for them to try and want the practice so far to decide on the character and meaning of existing information by subjective and exclusive law. I also think that the climate must be created that it is not a citizen who must prove and justify his interest in certain information because it is his original and sovereign right. And services, i.e. institutions and everyone else, call them information holders, must be obliged to provide citizens with such impartial information. Some processes, of course, require in time, but it seems to me that it's too often an alibi and an excuse to stand with our hands crossed. The biggest problem, and that is said by many experts, the civil sector. The biggest problem is the absence of an independent institution competent to treat public authorities who are deaf to citizens' questions. When we discussed amendments and additions to the Law on Access to Information a few months ago, then, when we pointed to the importance of the existence of an institution such as the Commissioner for Information, you tried to convince us that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data can and wants to carry out quality and to do the job of monitoring the implementation of the law. So, what we propose to be the Commissioner for Information. It was hard to believe the argument you were giving us at the time and which, which here and now I hear for a number of reasons. One of the key, basic reasons is the answer to the question of who chooses and asks the Director of the Agency. He chooses him and is appointed by the government. Thus, it cannot be an independent body. Secondly, let me say that the Agency that was involved in a scandal with the defense registry has lost a little bit on its credibility. The agency that first said one thing, and then after the prime minister's letter and reaction something completely different certainly lost its credibility. And finally, if the government thought seriously that the Agency could and should do so, it would already be in the process, in the parliamentary procedure of the draft law or amendments and additions to the Law on the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in order to strengthen its independence, with the key choice of the head of the Agency. So, if the government had taken it seriously, it would have already been suggested that the headmaster be the Parliament's commissioner, and that as a public defender, for example. is elected here, not in the government. We believe that the Institute of Commissioners is important, that it is necessary, and it exists in a series of European, non-European democratic states, and their function has proved to be extremely useful and important in these countries. During a public debate held at the Ministry of Administration, most of the representatives of the civil society organisation, and representatives of the public authority, firmly supported the version with the commissioner and the state secretary who was there, agreed that he was a Commissioner, that he proved to be an excellent solution in other countries, even neighbouring countries, and that fighting corruption costs money. It is not clear what happened in the meantime, and where this commissioner went missing, because in the bill we no longer had a chance to see him. We have heard that the reason for saving, but the claim of saving is unacceptable, because the damage resulting from corruption and the decline of citizens' confidence in the institutions of the state is the most expensive, and there is simply no mathematics, it is not some plus or minus mathematics, because the benefits of what are resulting from the failure of the system, therefore the damage from the failure of the system is too great. She's actually the most expensive. So to finish, law and freedom of access to information are not property of a state apparatus, because that apparatus is a social service, and it must finally become clear to us, and information is the property of citizens. Hiding behind the state's interests, under allegations, has led us where we are, and has led us to create a corrupt system, so it will surprise me very much if you don't support our bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69448	Thank you. And as the last individual, distinguished representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69449	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I must admit that I didn't mean to talk too much about this proposal, the proposal is reasonable, but the news that was published on the portals a few hours ago is indeed a cause for great concern, when it comes to freedom of the media, and when it comes to freedom of expression. I'll remind you that in Article 38. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, guarantees every citizen the right to freedom of speech, expression of thought. Yesterday, a meeting of the Defence and National Security Council was held, on the initiative, specifically so that the President of the Government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor was asked. If this information is correct, and we have no reason not to trust the media, then in Croatia we are one step ahead of the introduction of the state of emergency. It literally writes that after Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor's initiative yesterday held a session of the Defence and National Security Council, which includes the entire state summit, it became clear that the protection of senior HDZ officials from the malicious writing of media from first-class national security meaning, much more than Tihomir Purda, from the announced protests of defenders and security of Croatian citizens in Libya. At a meeting of the Defence and National Security Council, the topic was to write about Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. At a time when Tihomir Purda is already on the 51st day, if I counted well, innocent in a cell, at a time when the defense population is unsatisfactory announces a protest, at a time when specialists guard the Bane Courts against dissatisfied young protesters, at a time when Croatia is on the verge of bankruptcy over everything that has happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69450	Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69451	Stick to the subject, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69452	The theme is the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69453	I'm sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69454	And stick to the subject. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69455	I'm sticking to the subject, let me finish, you'll see I won't jump out of it with a single word. I convey the writing of the media and the right to information to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So at a time when all this is happening as I have said, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is calling upon the Council of Defence and National Security to express indignation and dissatisfaction, quoting malicious attacks on her personally by the media, with attempts to equate her responsibilities with the responsibility of her predecessor, the former party chief. But what is even more worrying, gentlemen, fellow MPs, is the fact that information is being transmitted that at that session of VONS yesterday, the State's Attorney's Office, Mr Mladen Bajic proposed an amendment to Article 231. The law on criminal proceedings, which seeks to impose repression against media reporting anti-corruption investigations. In this way, the State's Attorney's Office becomes a repressive baton of HDZ authorities. I'm afraid and I'm asking the public question whether HDZ's authority in the election year might go one step further and ban the media, and maybe even if it's necessary to close down journalists who dare to write what the authorities don't like. Whether the HDZ thinks we do not need parliamentary elections either, but simply to hold an extraordinary parliament, and extend the mandate by acclaiming President Kosor. We know there's an emergency in HDZ, but I'm asking you not to even try to put in a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69456	Your Honor, Your Honor, I've already given you a nice warning like that once.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69457	Mr. President, if this isn't the agenda theme
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69458	It's not about the agenda that you're talking about. HDZ and the HDZ situation is not a topic in this agenda. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69459	If it's HDZ writing
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69460	Oh, please, that's not the subject of the agenda!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69461	Then this is the topic of the agenda. Let me finish, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69462	Your Honor, don't do this, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69463	Don't turn me off. I said. Wait a minute, let me finish very soon I'll be done, very soon. The HDZ, therefore, is not the current authority of HDZ, the current authority when it comes to accessing information must take care that Croatia is neither anyone's mosque nor the HDZ. You must keep an eye on that the DORH cannot and must not be like the police repressive weapons in the hands of anyone or the current authorities. You have to make sure that when the reason was the uneasy dream of the prime minister, then the restless dreams should have been thought as everything that has led many citizens to the edge happened in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69464	Please! Your Honor, I would like to give you a heads-up on non-compliance, and please don't go any further, please, off topic, because I'm going to have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69465	Thank you, thank you, thank you for your warning. I'm here to talk to Mr. Vice President and what you don't like, you understand. And what you don't like.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69466	Please speak within the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69467	Sticking to the agenda is
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69468	It's not the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69469	The topic of the agenda is calling VONS, and
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69470	But that's not the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69471	Calling VONS for repression against the media. I'll be done very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69472	Please, Mr. Vidiche, without throwing it away. Neither side.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69473	Take care, take care.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69474	Because it suits you. So don't make a mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69475	Make sure every force comes to an end and so does this one. That everything in life is coming back and everything is being paid, that they're... It's true, it's true. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Me too. I'm not in the mood to live like a vampire for 300 years. But that these days are numbered, too, you have to become aware because it won't help you either VONS or DORH or the police or special forces or any force of the world because it didn't work out for the greater tyrannys than this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69476	Your Honor, you can't go any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69477	Now let me just show you when I'm talking about vampires.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69478	Appreciation
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69479	Here's where I end up with another one.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69480	I give you a warning and take away your word. Please, Your Honor... That's what we agreed not to go out of order. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69481	Listen to the finish. This is why the government is locked up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69482	Thank you. Appreciation
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69483	At a closed session approved a million and 350 thousand kuna
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69484	Thank you. Your Honor, I'm taking your word and you're welcome to interrupt... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your Honor, I'd like to ask you without being thrown out of the bench. Stop the debate, I've taken your word and you can't speak any further. Thank you very much. Sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69485	To let the public see what the government is paying for.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69486	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative of the Sunana Glavak. Here you go. ... Please don't make me have to take you out of the hall. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Don't make me have to get you out of the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69487	I'll go out myself, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69488	Here you go, and that's much smarter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69490	Don't do that, make a mess in the assembly. There you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69491	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, mostly for Croatia, I believe you'll agree, that it's a civilized country, but here's the exception of this kind of God. And freedom of speech is one thing, and the circus is what we are present with, and the subject is the Commissioner for Information. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the representatives of the HDZ Club will not support the proposed bill, partly for the reason that much of the provisions are covered in December of last year, you will remember the adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Access to Information, and in part that the adoption of such a bill would also mean an additional increase in the state administration, and thus further, I would dare say unnecessary costs and burdens for the state budget. Why do I say unnecessary? For the reason that the said Law on the right to access information allows for the right to access information to all natural and legal persons through the openness of the public and the functioning of the public authorities, and for the purpose of the control of their work. And all the concerns and shortcomings identified by the application of the current law have also been removed. We have repeatedly said the laws are like living tissue, the laws should be changed if we think they could improve our life of course. In this respect, the meaning of the concept of the right to information as well as the circle of public authorities which are required to comply with the law is more clearly established and is extended. Furthermore, the concept of information has been clarified, the concept of a public interest and proportionality test has been introduced in the event of short information.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69492	Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69493	I recall that the amendment of the Law on the right to access information is one of the measures taken to set up new legal and institutional frameworks for the control of corruption. I'll say that, and that's a confirmation of openness in communication and availability of information. It is equally important to emphasise how we have raised this civil right to constitutional level in recent amendments to the Constitution. Therefore, the Constitution guaranteed access to information owned by public authorities, and restrictions on access to information must be proportionate to the nature of the need for a restriction in each case and necessary in a free and democratic society. That is how we established the basis for its consistent legal implementation. At the same time, we must not ignore the fact that the number of requests based on access to information is reduced from year to year and not for reasons such as today could be heard that citizens do not want or no longer have nerves, or that there seems to be no point in reaching this right anymore, but for the simple reason that other means of information or access to information have been used, these are primarily electronic publications, so information on websites and such. Today, of course, more and more people are using information technology, and that is one of the reasons why information can be found in the record in other ways than the submissions in writing or in the statement. I am using this opportunity to point out that there are no true claims that here the Croatian government could hear more closed than open sessions. This is simply not true, and the examples for the government's session in neighbouring Austria are all closed to your information except for the example of national holidays. Furthermore, the conclusions of the session are only not published in Ireland, the United Kingdom, while in Hungary, Spain or, say, Austria are published in part or in the form of a summary. As for the Commissioner for Information himself, I must say, all public authorities have officers in charge of information. All of these are professional and qualified people, people who are in the system, and besides that the law requires education for those who already exist there and know what it is, so I'm going to say that I was sorry to hear that it's scandalous that law is not being implemented in one ministry. I, too, responsibly claim that when I was an information officer in charge of the Croatian government, very responsible and very caringly responded to all the questions. I must also say that we did not remain in debt for any inquiry, so there was no lack of information for those who spoke to us. I'll finish, but I'll just remind you here only for the Personal Data Protection Agency you'll let me just because you forgot about me at the beginning, so I'll ask you to let me finish. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data shall be an independent body for the protection of the right to access information.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69494	I'm sorry your time is up, no matter what a mistake has been made before. That doesn't mean we can give you longer now. It's time for everything, for both of you and the honourable MPs to bring an end, please. Please don't throw it out of the bench. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69495	We are not going to accept this proposal, because we believe that the law that exists, the Law on the right to access information, has arranged it all well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69496	Thank you. Please, we agreed at the Bureau of Parliament and you would use the same thing tomorrow against the chairman. The word of honor is pioneering, as you have not already. Don't do that. Please. For everyone, that goes for me and for everyone else. I can't ask for order if it doesn't apply to everything. Does the proposaler's representative want final? Yeah. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. I'm sorry, no one warned me about... Excuse me, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69497	So I want to correct the incorrect assumption that officials who are in the public authorities in charge of providing information are well educated on this law, because I assure you that they are not. And I base my claim that in one debate on the report on the implementation of this law, the Secretary of State Palaric, who was then in charge of writing the report at the end and controlling the implementation of this law, did not know that all the enquiries that go towards the public authority should be treated as requests for information according to this bill. And if the Secretary of State doesn't know that, then I'm not surprised not even the officers know it, if that's how they educate them on the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69498	Thank you. Finally, the distinguished representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69499	Thank you very much. I am not going to pollomize with what my colleague Sunčica Glavak said, what practice is held by the government's meetings, governments in Austria, Spain, Ireland and Hungary, because we have our own laws here, we have our own government and our own rules. Whether Spain or France or I don't know who's publishing and what kind of announcements from their open or closed sessions, it's my right to tell you that it's none of your business. I know we have open meetings of the government, we know we have closed sessions of the government, I hope we don't have detention sessions of the government. Three things are important here in this debate. The first thing that is independent, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, is it an independent or independent body? Do we have an independent body that assesses whether someone should give information or not? He whom the Government appoints and appoints is dependent on the government that appoints and appoints him. We can say that he is quality or unskilled that he is qualified or untrained to be needed or unnecessary but we cannot talk about whether he is dependent or independent. He is dependent on him who appoints him, for if he who appoints him is not pleased with him, he will be well pleased with him, and he will call off him, and he will appoint someone else. So we don't have an independent body. We could have it if we passed this law. The second most common objection. Cost. Some expense is for the state budget, some expense is the commissioner's cost something. Democracy costs something at all, bodies cost a democratic something, costs something and the government, costs the Parliament, costs the president of the Republic, all of it costs something. I don't think we should be saving on democracy. We can ask ourselves a question, and what's the harm in saving control? And this body should be the control body, the commissioner and the control body. The damage is disproportionately greater if the heads of local self-government, the government, even the leaders of a body with public authority know that they won't have to give information and that nothing will happen to them, so they do as they please. The damage to the device is disproportionately greater. They would fear this commissioner and he would represent better quality control, therefore so much damage and control. And the third most important question, what is the public interest and why we are here. Are we here to represent the interests of the citizens who elected us here or to represent other interests? I am deeply convinced that we are here to represent the interest of the citizens. What is the public's interest, what is the public's interest, that such a commissioner exists or that he does not exist? Does he give citizens more certainty that the information they seek or less security will come to them? If it gives them more security, it's their interest. If that's their interest, then it is our duty as elected representatives of the citizens to satisfy their interest. In these three issues, the independence of the body, cost and public interest should also be guided by the vote on this proposal. I therefore call on the clubs of the parliamentary majority to satisfy the public's interest, to hear it first of all, to listen to it, to hear the citizens' interest and to vote in the public interest at least once by the end of the term.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69500	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Honorable representative of the Sun's Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69501	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to correct the incorrect quote of a fellow Stazic who said unless they give information that nothing will happen to them. Comrade Stazić, you know that is not the case because the new law has introduced sanctions, and it is true, as many as 45% say the bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government have not supplied data, and we have not talked about them today. So it's incorrect that there's no sanctions, there's sanctions, and it's the law on the right to access information exactly determines. And I don't think it's a public interest to have a commissioner, it's a public interest to get information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69502	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69503	Proposal for a law on the Commissioner for Information. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. In accordance with the proposal of the Government and the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on the Commissioner for Information is not accepted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 75 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 29 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69504	We move on to the point, we'll do another point, - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on profit tax, first reading, P.Z. No. 652 Proposer: SDP Representatives Club SDP proposed these amendments and additions to the law pursuant to Article 129. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear representative Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69505	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. For several years now, since 2008, when we felt the first signs of the crisis, the SDP has warned that budgetary policy needs to be changed among other things. This is how we have already come out for the 2009 budget and also for the 2010 budget with several legislative initiatives that should affect budgetary policy and budgeting for the two years, so the year of the crisis. This is also in line with the calls of the Prime Minister who, on every one of our budget reviews, but also the economic policy says suggest something. So these six proposals that we made before the National Budget was to be discussed in the Assembly, and it would be normal for us to conduct this debate before we discussed the 2011 State Budget. So these six proposals are actually part of measures that should dynamic economic progress, affect economic growth and recover the economy. Namely, by amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act, we want to increase the reliefs or tax exemptions or the reduction of the tax base for the tax on profits with three more options. This is to reduce the tax base for reinvested profits, so we are starting from the fact that Croatia needs investments, in particular investments that create new jobs or retain existing jobs, for retained profits because it means increasing liquidity in the company itself, i.e. increasing trade funds. And thirdly, for salary expenses for new employees in the current year, so to those companies that will be employed in these times of crisis. Members of the European Union retain exclusive responsibility for the level of direct taxation and thus the personal income tax and profits of businesses. So we would not be in a conflict with European legislation. They themselves determine the rates of direct taxes, savings and capital gains. Therefore, the provisions of the European Union are not an obstacle to regulating the relationship in taxation of profits in the Republic of Croatia. The existing Profit Tax Act prescribes a profit tax rate of 20%, which is among the lower rates, but is not the lowest rate of taxation of profits. There are also certain reliefs, i.e. liberations and incentives. They are currently seven regulated by special laws. These are reliefs for taxpayers in the area of special state care, exemptions for taxpayers in the City of Vukovar, reliefs for taxpayers in mountain and mountainous areas, reliefs and exemptions for taxpayers in free zones, exemptions for taxpayers who are registered and carry out exclusively research and development activities, then incentives for investments and incentives for taxpayers established for professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled persons. So, starting right from this basic premise that Croatia needs investment, job creation and retaining existing jobs. Why are we leaving this place? Because Croatia has a low share of the working population in the working population. The Institute of Statistics announced that in the first half of 2010, there were 3 million 741 thousand working-age residents, that we had a million and 750 thousand working-active people, and then we had a million and 534 thousand employees. At that moment, 216000 unemployed. So seven, eight months ago. Today, the figure has risen to 334378 unemployed with a tendency to be higher in February. The data then shows that we have very little activity rate of around 47% and a very low employment rate of only 41%. The European Union has declared its goal of employment, the rate of active employment at 70%, many countries have already reached that rate, and let's see where Croatia currently is. There are also concerns about economic activity data so that the first half has been reported to fall in total income, gross profits, gross profits by as much as 46.5% or 5.8 billion kuna. At that time, investments were less than 18 billion kuna or 34%. So, not to repair speech and data in nine months. The government says that such changes and additions to the Law on Profit Tax are not necessary, i.e. the existing law regulates this matter in a good way. I'll only read one sentence from a very broad explanation. It's in the government's explanation. The corporate tax system in the Republic of Croatia is stimulating and encourages investment and employment. There is also one of the lower profit tax rates in Europe which creates a favourable climate for investment and investment in the Republic of Croatia and for domestic and foreign investors. If that were true, statistics would be directed or displayed. And I will now say what is the latest data published for the nine-month business of Croatian businessmen. At the end of the year, we have data that the decline in industrial production is still 1.4%. In the first nine months, revenues fell by 5%, expenditures by 3.9% and we still have this negative rate of revenue and expenditure, which then significantly affects a decline in gross profits of less than 26.5% or amounted to 15.7 billion before tax and is lower by 5.7 billion than in the same period last year. Employment fell 3.1%, wages fell, net wages fell 0.7%. When we look at the size of entrepreneurs only large entrepreneurs, and we know that there are only a few in Croatia or the share is very small they had a 3.2% growth. The biggest problem is middle entrepreneurs. To them, gross profits fell by 59%, small entrepreneurs by 35%. And when we add that to 334378 unemployed then we actually see that this sentence from the government's explanation is just a wish and certainly not a good climate for investment. That there is no investment talking and data on investment in long-term assets. In the first nine months, 29 billion kuna or almost 13 billion less than in the same period last year, which is almost a third, so the decline is almost a third. What's worrying is that not only do investments fall into the construction area that fell by 53% for known reasons. But the decline of investment in equipment is alarming because 23% has been reported in this period. There's no foreign investment either. Last year, in the first nine months, only a billion and 200 million kuna were invested in Croatia, already in known or telecommunications or banking sectors, which is almost, over 30% lower than in 2009, and even 50% compared to the year 2008 when the crisis was at its peak in our environment. Ino investments last year are the lowest in the last six years. And when we look at what we have done through economic policy in the past 20 years in Croatia, that is, 15 years after the war and 12 years after peaceful reintegration, we have devastating results. Industrial production is lower than in the early 1990s by 28%, agricultural production by 23%. In that period, the gross product increased by only 3% while our employment dropped 15% and the number of pensioners doubled. So this is our reality, and unless we are going to take certain measures to dynamic economic flows, the Croatian economy will not have any opportunity to compete competitively with competition in its environment, especially when it becomes a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69506	Thank you. Does the government want a representative? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69507	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So here is the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act, essentially the SDP club, which proposed amendments in two articles that are extremely important and which should, in any case, affect the increase in economic activity. It is therefore that the basis, i.e. it is proposed that the base of the profit tax is reduced, i.e. to be freed from paying the profit tax, reinvested profits, then retained profits, expenditure on the salaries of newly employed persons in the current year. At the same time, it is proposed to amend the article where the base of profit tax would be increased for the retained profit paid, and the fixed profit paid is considered to be the payment of profits from earlier periods which have not been allocated and to which no profit tax has been paid. In this way, these amendments to these articles would in some way eliminate the effects that would potentially result from a reduction in income from profit tax since it would mean changing this article where the base of profit tax would be increased for which the previous tax was not paid, in some way it would be analysed and the negative consequences of the tax reduction in the state budget, Colleica Zgrebec was talking about how we normally gave these measures before the adoption of the 2009 state budget, and we also did so before the adoption of the 2010 budget, but here at the end of the 2 months we are discussing the meaning of tax laws, the change of the Tax on Profit, which means that the Government had the opportunities, she could have wanted these changes that we are already in the 2011 budget. As far as I'm concerned, what I'm saying is, we're holding that such changes would, first of all, encourage entrepreneurs to keep the profits they've earned from not paying, that is, investing, reinvesting in entrepreneurship, that is, craftsmanship, so it would be possible in some way to create new jobs. Since entrepreneurs now have no reason not to pay for the profit they pay for the tax on profits, this proposal suggests that the profit that is made to reinvest means that it is reinvested in production, thus fostering both economic growth and thus allowing so many necessary jobs to be created. So that's what my colleague Zgrebec was already saying, I'm just going to brief on the business of entrepreneurs in the first half of 2010 all relevant business data were worrying. The total revenue has dropped by 7.3% and gross earnings by 46.5%, i.e. 5.8 billion kuna. Investments are lower by 18.2 billion kuna or even 34.3%. During that period, the number of employees is lower by 69 000 and 400, and the number of unemployed is higher by... thousands and 300 people. [[You don't understand.]] Such a situation was in the 10th month of last year when we proposed amendments to this law, but I must say that the situation is now far worse and far more difficult in this year. From the 11th month 2010 to today, the situation has been significantly worsened, as all relevant data speak. Unsettled obligations have been registered with 33,000 and 500 legal persons, which is 6 million more than in December 2009. The total amount of outstanding payment orders of about 33,000 and 500 insolvent legal persons, employed by 49,000 employees, amounted to HRK 29.5 billion at the end of 2010. Data from the FINA show that in 2010, the second year, the consecutive year of high liquidity deterioration and cash flows in the real sector. Over the period of the two years of the crisis, the value of outstanding orders has increased by as much as 17.3 billion kuna or 93.7%. The number of blocked business entities with blocked accounts increased by 23.3 thousand or 44.4%. If we add that the new 31st and 490 unemployed ended in the stock market in January 2011, so that the number of unemployed in January 2011 is more than 334 thousand unemployed, which is for 14 thousand unemployed persons registered to the Croatian Employment Office compared to December 2010. The continued growth of unemployment in January is primarily the result of negative developments in the real sector. The growth in the number of unemployed will also result in an increase in registered unemployment rates, which should be over 19.6%. But there seems to be no fear. We see that the unemployment monitoring committee is just being set up, it was published yesterday in the media, which should professionally explain where so many unemployed persons were suddenly found at the Employment Office. It's about 10 grand, and it's actually a problem that bothers Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. So the commission should determine the reasons, where these people came from, whether they are from Croatia or from somewhere else, and how that figure increased by 10 thousand in a month, which means that the ball is transferred to the Croatian Employment Service, which probably has no good records, so the commission that should investigate it will probably find the causes of that, and otherwise in Croatia it is known if you want things to be hidden, if you want something not to be solved, then usually always establishes a commission. So for this commission that should be established is likely to be, the results will be the same. I would just like to look back a little bit on the obvious given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia about our bill, by amending the Tax on Profits. Here means the explanation is quite large, talking about how much relief, i.e. incentives to the economy and entrepreneurs are given through a number of special laws, I don't know about investment, the PPDS Act, the mountain-mounted areas, and that. But all of these laws can be said so they don't apply to all entrepreneurs of a legal person, they're selective, they're e.g. As regards the area of special state concern and the exemption of profit tax only means if it is invested in that area, and what the SDP club proposes, this means a measure that would be worth all entrepreneurs, regardless of where they live and where they invest. Furthermore, the government notes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the view that it is not necessary to maintain a new tax relief for reinvested profits, i.e. retained profits, since tax reliefs for investments made, particularly long-term assets and job openings, are covered by specific regulations. Well, that's exactly the data I was just talking about, a colleague of Zgrebec spoke about, proves the exact opposite. So all these reliefs and all the incentives that are... the laws, which are found in the Tax on Profits Act, were obviously not enough, i.e. not enough to overcome the crisis, to create new jobs and ultimately encourage investment, i.e. investment. [[You don't understand.]] Likewise, as a reason for not accepting these amendments to the Law on Profit Taxation, the Government of the Republic of Croatia states that the question of monitoring the use of the reduction of the corporate tax base, as well as the control of such use, can be raised as a problem in which the reinvested profit and retained profit is used, for which the reinvested profit and retained profit is used, and in which amount the reinvested profit and retained profit is used. It also says that the issue of the economics of the process is raised, there is also a great possibility of tax evasion. So I have to say, taxpayers means during, at the end of the accounting period, legal persons, it's April 30, they submit an annual profit tax application form, it's a PD form that has over 40 points, and I don't think it would be a problem if those reliefs that we've proposed here were put into those points, because already by the existing law, there's a whole series of reliefs, and there shouldn't be any problem at all in that it simply means what we're looking for, and that's that the reinvested profits get rid of taxation, that is, and these salaries paid for new employees to get rid of taxation. If only it meant installing a new item into the PD form and the IRS means you would have a lot of insight as to the use of these reliefs. What I was going to say next is yes, well. What I was going to say next, and that's actually the final thing that actually surprised me. So here, even as an argument, the Law on Direct Taxes is listed. As I recall, since I worked at the IRS for 22 years, it's a law that was passed around 90 years. '93. the year the law was abolished because it moved on to another system of taxation of income tax and income tax. I can't believe now that we're going back in history and we're going back in the '90s and we're explaining that otherwise this law means direct taxes, I remember it, it was meant to be freed from paying taxes on the profits of the administration that reinvested profits and that this particular relief did not give the expected effects, and for that reason it was no longer incorporated into the existing Law on profit tax. I don't think this finding and argument stand at all. We can't go back to the '90s, it's not the same environment, and it's a different tax system. So in my opinion, this argument, I have to say, is a little bit of a surprise to me, and I really thought it was funny to have such arguments going at all. And in the end, I will say about these reliefs for the new employees, here are mentioned reliefs for the newly employed and those given by the Croatian Employment Service. However, they are reliefs that go exactly to target groups. So, for first-timers, I don't know about special programs for women and that. Here in our proposal we are looking for, in fact we suggest that the base of profit tax is reduced, i.e. not to pay profit tax for persons who are employed. Which means it's the difference. So, for the unemployed. So, if an employer hired an unemployed person, he would thus be entitled to through a gross salary paid by both taxes and income contributions would be entitled to reduce the base of profit tax. What the Croatian Employment Service gives is something completely different. He refers to each other as a whole. This is true for all employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69508	Thank you. We have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First is Honorable Representative Kruno Markovinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who incorrectly states that the government is setting up a commission to hide the number of unemployed. Forgetting that the administrations were hiding or hiding, the SDP therefore, the data that there were 411,000 205 unemployed in January 2002, and in March 415,000 unemployed. So, the records that I believe we'll never break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69510	Thank you. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's the distinguished representative Nada Cavlović Smiljanec said that the reinvested profit of control is what the government says that it's still problematic to control that it's not a problem at all, it has a column in the PD form, it puts that amount and that's it. What really isn't true. If you're going to go to reinvested profits, if you want to end any manipulations then you have to have a reinvestment program that needs to be controlled otherwise you'll have the opposite effect. Therefore, tax evasion on profits. So there's got to be some kind of program. This should have been stated in this law. If you don't have it then you know what's going to happen next. And just like that, you can't work, and besides that, according to this law, taxes on profit would be reduced, and you said it wouldn't be necessary any budget funds. I mean, the whole law is just one big stupid thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69512	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So when we talk about laws like this, then I don't think we should play with false data. You can't say that changing this law won't have any implications for the state budget. According to the IRS, that's about 2 billion kuna down the line. The second thing, you forgot that we had a very efficient system with which investment was simply being accepted, and that was a protective interest. And it didn't take any special forms. You immediately abolished it in 2001 just because it was HDZ's. So we had a great instrument that was introduced right in crisis years that could fit this current crisis situation. And I think the biggest problem with this debate about all these laws is because we haven't united the debate, which we haven't increased the minute around the debate for the simple reason to see how much tax law carries plus or minus the budget because the fiscal impact of these laws is -13 billion kuna. And I think at times when we're talking and we have this deficit of 13 billion we should take from the economy on the domestic financial market. So, I suggested, I'm sorry that you weren't here, but I was talking, and I think it would be better if we could agree to unite the debate. You might have some ideas because, unfortunately, this is a lot of unfinished examples, and you would, with this proposal of the Tax Tax on Profit, I apologize, have made a huge choice of tax administration. We've made a strong choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69514	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, the esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69515	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. In these late hours, we are talking about the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of the SDP Club and, as we have heard from these corrections of incorrect allegations, and expected, fully expected, when something is not supported and not supported, and the proposal was sent four months ago and only now came into debate because it respects the order of debate but simply there is no discussion material by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And it's a good thing the opposition laws finally came to order. And I repeat, if there's something he doesn't want to support, then he's trying to find arguments why he doesn't support it. In particular, the reinvested option or obligation or legal obligation to free the reinvested profits from taxes is something that is normally something that is the alphabet of behavior in every regulated economy, literally in every regulated economy, the alphabet of behavior is the possibility for entrepreneurs of all that they have invested to free them from paying taxes on profits. There are exceptions, it doesn't matter all statistics, it doesn't matter now the count that these are states, but it's important to say that some regulated states only charge profit taxes when the taxpayer pays the profits, so not every little one of them gives me this so how will you end up out? It's only when he intends to pay off. If he's not paying off if he's reinvesting, then he's tax-free. It's very simple, it's easy, it's software that's perfectly acceptable and I don't see what the problem is. By reading this opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this bill that came to us on page 7 which lists 8 different regulations, which is precisely in its basic content, giving entrepreneurs the opportunity to tax discharge, that is correct. That's true. However, what are the effects of all this application? Have our jobs increased? Tax on profit which is the income of the state budget. For the first half of 2010. 3.65 billion years ago there were 5.3 billion so 30% decreased. All the numbers say, all the numbers only say if we want to read the way they write, or we want to distort that bitter truth, that's another question. So this is an opinion, too, what have we achieved with these eight? What are the effects? In which segment are they present, known are they visible? Has there been an increase in the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises? Did they reduce their risk to banks? Did the banks go cheap with their interest? Whether they are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and this measure is primarily intended or intended for small and medium-sized enterprises but certainly... one very potent financial potential sector which is logical because they are dealing with this and that is the banking sector. How much profit derived from the Republic of Croatia to make this profit more taxed, which is also one of the SDP colleagues' proposals from these 6 laws, if it had been strongly taxed, would surely have been a stronger, speculative capital for the Republic of Croatia. Telecommunications and not to be too long is very clear why it is not accepted. The first reason is because it is the opposition party's proposal, the opposition party. It's number one, and it doesn't need to be specifically justified. It doesn't even need to be elaborated. And the second reason for this explanation is the government only on the page. 7, and this is going to reduce income means of 7 pages exclusively on page 7, writing what is true, and this is going to reduce the revenue of the state budget. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is not ready and unable and does not simply want to reduce total consumption, there is no power, there is no way, there is no willingness and simply does not want to accept and provided that let's show one community so let's accept a proposal that is basically completely logical and useful to entrepreneurs, those who create a new value, who employ their people, who are on the market every day. So let's show one good will, one good desire to give them support and let's accept it. However, the parliamentary majority simply cannot accept it because it lacks in the budget. What do we get from this bill? I'll only mention two things. Capitally strengthens, indifference decreases, as funds enter the flows of small and medium-sized enterprises, the economic sector better said, I am quite burdened with small and medium-sized entrepreneurship they are the most injured at the moment. It increases their capital base, increases their potency and reduces the risk to the banking sector, invests in new technology, increases productivity and a whole range of things. Nothing special, everything he knows and everything he knows. It is also known that we are witnessing the fiasco of the economic recovery program of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have witnessed that model A,B and C experienced a total fiasco special model C. When I speak fiasco then I would especially like to highlight the assessments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we passed laws here in the Croatian Assembly on the effects and model A and model B and model C and something that is clearly happening. We're witnessing a complete fiasco and the Law of Incentives of sales of unsold apartments, something we discussed less than a year ago when we warned about what was going to happen and happened. Therefore, nothing is done. And it certainly is necessary and necessary a complete solution, absolutely certain. Both colleagues from the SDP and we from the HNS both have this very clear position and colleagues from the parliamentary majority agree with us. Probably not here publicly, but to each other when we talk, that we need one full reform, one reform that will give the ability to breathe more normally, first of all, to punish entrepreneurs, and on the other hand to punish those who punish us daily. This fellow Maric, in very nice words, mentions what they are in his discussions. We therefore agree, if we agree, let's support this proposal by colleagues and colleagues. As much as he's a partial solution, as much as he's biting himself with some of the solutions that the government has made in its opinion I expect from the president of the tax administration, there are the most competent at this point, they have the best picture, and something that hairs, which hasn't shown that it's effective let's end it, let's cancel it, let's simplify the system. Furthermore, I also fully agree with my colleague Shuker that protection interest was one great instrument. It's true, it's true. If it happened that she quit, then why didn't we bring her back? Why didn't we bring her back, why didn't we perfect her, so she did have eight years of time. You did have time. Well, it's good, I think everyone's making a mistake, let's get out of that position, but let's finally agree on something, and we all agree that one urgent injection of entrepreneurship is needed. We all agree that the banking sector should make its contribution not by calling for coffee but by very concrete measures. One of the measures is this, besides those proposed by a colleague from the SDP. One of the measures is that. So we all understand what needs to be done, but there is obviously no readiness. If the reason is just what it says on page 7, then it's not good, then it's a bad message to everyone and to these people who are here right now right next door. That's a bad message. Not to accept this bill, among other things, because it will reduce the state budget. That's a very bad message. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Retired Party have jointly fully agreed its views on the way, the possibility and need to lead the country's economic policy along with its SDP counterparts. We fully agree that this legislative proposal is at this point, so after four months of being filed in the procedure, that this legislative proposal is a partial solution. We fully agree that we need one whole solution. In the absence of a complete solution until then let's support it. Among other things, and that is why the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired Party club will support this legal solution and we expect you not to deny the quality of this solution, I am talking about the parliamentary majority, but make a more quality move in the space that has been solved so far with 8, tax-listed 8 legislative proposals, and they have not fulfilled their task and have not given that quality that was expected. I hope and believe in the impossible that this legislative proposal will also be supported consensually by all MPs in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69516	We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's an incorrect finding by colleagues to make stronger taxation work. From the experience of a few years ago, so when we reduced the profit tax rate to 20% and abolished the tax on profit tax revenues, they practically increased 100% within a year and the 20% rate is not something high. And when we in Croatia realize that tax exemptions are not something that will encourage entrepreneurs to invest but something completely different then we will probably think differently. And secondly, it's not true that model A experienced a fiasco. By way of model A 2 billion credits was granted to Croatian entrepreneurs, however, model B indicates exactly what we should be discussing here tonight when we talk about the Tax on Profits Act, which is the low capitalisation of Croatian companies and their inability to borrow and invest. And that's the real truth, and we can discuss that truth and that truth if we find a consensus then we can agree to do something together, and this is just a political move that unfortunately only brings a minus 2 billion to the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69518	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69519	But I repeat, model B, we're going to have the Guarantee Fund Act, it's model B. Here's a chance for us to...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69520	Thank you very much. ... Excuse me, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative, no throwing away, please. ... And don't threaten here, don't threaten in the assembly room. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Your Honor. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69521	So I think after this statement, colleague Anticevic is simply illusory to anything to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69522	Thank you very much. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69523	Thank you very much. My colleague Koračević, your debate inspired me on the replica, but I can't, so I will correct your claim that the known effects in the regulated states are the benefit of not paying taxes on profits, on reinvested and retained profits. This is not true because I ask you what benefit the Republic of Croatia has from keeping banks profit, not paying taxes on retained profits when they hold that retained profits through excess liquidity in the National Bank. There's no effect on the lack of liquidity. And they have excess liquidity, these are the most liquid entities in the Republic of Croatia. Or, what use does the Republic of Croatia have from... T-HT and such companies hold surplus or retained profits held deposited in banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What good does that do? Nothing but damage because it's the main source of high interest rates. On the contrary. And that's why I object to this solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69524	Thank you. We're moving on to individual... Please don't throw it out of the bench. Please, nice little order, don't be. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69525	I'll start with these corrections. So if you're opposed to a suspended profit, you put in an amendment so that there's only one piece left. We may agree on that, but it seems to me that you object to all these suggestions. And now I'm going to say one thing. If things are viewed this way, whether it's a billion more or a billion less in the budget. Well, normally if the rate is lower, there'll probably be a lower profit tax. It's elementary mathematics. So... No, I don't. [[You can't hear it.]] If the tax rate is lower, then 15 is less than 20, right? You'll report for a debate or a replica, and then explain. But if we were to ride that logic, we had 10 billion kuna taxes in 2008. We haven't changed anything, and how much profit taxes we're going to have this year or the past, half as much. So we haven't changed anything, and yet we have 5 billion less. And this logic that you are now talking about here and the government and individual HDZ representatives were then speaking when we proposed a similar law. We're going to have less profit taxes, we're going to get the money out of the budget. Well, we broke it out one way or another five billion less. And how fortunate that we had then accepted the SDP law, which was addressed in the procedure of 19 November 2008 when some ministers said that the crisis would not touch us, that it would nick us, that there would be no problems. I wish we had passed this law because maybe the consequences wouldn't be as they are today. The fact that we wouldn't have a profit tax, maybe five billion, maybe four and a half billion or four. But it would certainly have an effect on the fact that there wouldn't be 340,000 unemployed people. Jobs would be preserved. They'd encourage economics to reinvest, foreign investors, maybe open up a job no longer opened in this case. And we two years ago, in 2009, so we have already sent that item to the Croatian Parliament together with the set of laws for 2 months 2009. We held the debate on February 5th, 2008 at the 11th, 2009 in the second month we discussed and rejected our law on February 6th. And what happened for the next two years? We had an economic downturn of 5.8%. 2010 almost 2%. We lost 8% of GDP during that period, and the argument was better not to touch it because we're going to violate tax revenues. We'll have damage from such a law. On the contrary, I am convinced that we would benefit and that at this point we would not have 340,000 unemployed. The fact may be a little less profit tax, but we wouldn't have a hundred and a few thousand people without a job in the past two years. And that is, I would say those effects of the inaction of the HDZ government that are now and you can see how destructive they are and how Croatian citizens live for it. We claimed, or not us, but HDZ's government claimed in 2008 that the crisis would not hit us. A budget of 125 billion kuna was proposed. We weren't aware of what was ahead of us. We've lost almost 8% of GDP in two years, 100ths and some thousand jobs, and now we're talking again with the same logic that there's nothing we can do except break out some tax revenues. And my theory and claim is that it's better to ever do something than to stick your head back in the sand and work on the benefit of our own damage as we did in 2008, 2009. And to see what a shame it is when we compete with countries in the environment. Last 2010 foreign investment in the Southeast European environment grew slightly, 1% but grew. In Croatia, in the first three quarters of 2010, these investments fell 31%. Maybe because we didn't do anything, there were no proposals that would stimulate people to invest, and maybe those foreign entrepreneurs and investors we're talking about now have something to gain. Unfortunately, we didn't stimulate them. It is almost 600m euros in less investment that remained at the 2009 level as remained in the environment. What a shame it is I don't need to talk too much. The results are visible and I'm sorry no matter what certain appeals exist for discussion, and I remember then the minister saying the former was to talk, to make a deal. We suggested it. No discussion on these proposals was except for the mathematical sum of how much something brings or takes into the budget as if everything could be reduced exclusively to figures and as if something when you cut did not stimulate perhaps some other income. It's possible when we look at a plastic on a calculator yes, but life isn't a calculator, and that's seen from the fact that then the thesis that we're going to lose 2 billion kuna taxes on profit is now visible. We lost 5 billion because we didn't do anything. And that's what needs to be discussed and that's what Croatia is essentially paying the most and its citizens, unfortunately, are now hearing little of how the people revolutionized in front of the Parliament are standing as we debate here, and the consequences of this very dissatisfaction are unsatisfaction. Mrs. Rocksandic, I know you didn't mean to, but don't test now. Here's a few more minutes. Yeah, everything okay. Unfortunately, the consequences are inconclusive, as I said the GDP drop almost 8%, 340,000 without jobs that could work and not work, and so we could make all economic indicators aware of that. We didn't suggest anything, we waited for a miracle to happen, and miracles didn't happen. And unfortunately, we're going to pay for a long, long time, and we're going to feel that not only this government, but also the government that's going to come after it. Unfortunately, neither guilty nor obliged to solve problems, and I would say the backlogs and consequences of what the HDZ government has been doing for seven years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69526	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69527	Thank you very much. Well, I think it's time to clear up whether or not someone admitted it was a crisis. If I'm not mistaken, my urgent return from America, the amendment of the law on the secured savings of Croatian citizens, was a clear indication that the financial crisis was cotura in Croatia. That was the first thing. It's another thing. The draft budget I said not once publicly that I would never forgive myself for why we didn't adopt it, which proposed freezing expenditure at the level of 2008 you had the chance to support. Only fellow Maras, unlike the opposition, the government couldn't afford to speak at these times of crisis, because with this Law on Secured Savings of Croatian Citizens we prevented the stampede on business banks. If we hadn't stopped it, our financial sector wouldn't have stayed safe, and I think at last this argument that just says it's not true what you say, but you're in an opposition position to say it, and the government isn't. But if the government proposes an increase in security savings, so what's different than admitting that there's a financial crisis at the door. For God's sake. If you're proposing a budget with, it was a colleague in 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69528	Bring the end, the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69529	I know exactly what I'm talking about. Also, the proposal for a budget to remain at the level of 2008 with the freezing of salaries and pensions, in 11 months 2008, clearly says the economic crisis is at the door, and gentlemen, we need to limit consumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69530	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69531	That's when I didn't come across your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69532	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69533	And that's a fact and that's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69534	Thank you very much. Here's what we're gonna do. Please, without it, tomorrow you'll have a chance to continue the debate. So a few notices first. We'll break up now. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:30. We still have five individual applications. The first will be Ivo Jelusic, a respected representative tomorrow. The vote is tomorrow 11 o'clock, so please consider that. And I wish you all good night. We're starting today's work. I apologize for the short delay because there's been some misunderstanding. Today we will discuss the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax. Continuing the discussion of the individual. And the first is the order I announced yesterday by distinguished representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69536	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the first of a series of legislative proposals offered by the SDP here in the Assembly, which are on the trail of finding a solution to the economic crisis in which Croatia is apparently located. So, as an opposition, we wanted not only to control what the executive government is doing, not only to criticise but also to offer solutions and seek solutions to exit from the crisis. So this is the first of the laws we're going to discuss that we've given in the procedure. What's our goal? Our goal is therefore, and what did we want when it came to profit tax? So it wouldn't be misunderstood if the SDP was not paying the profit tax, it wasn't SDP to not fill the state budget with that base. We are for each income to pay tax or profit, especially for profit, but for that profit and for that income which indeed ends in the pocket of those who earn it. And the profits are made by shareholders, the owners of companies, and the profits are what they have left after they cover all the expenses. And let them pay it off, and they should pay their taxes, but not for that profit they don't pay, and which doesn't end up in their pocket, but stays in the company, stays as a held-up profit. Why is that necessary? Well, because at this time indifference is so great, the Croatian economy is looming in indifference, 36 billion are reported claims. That is, somewhere more than a third of the budget is what is lacking in the mutual demand between entrepreneurs and needs to be helped in every way and ensure that as many craftsmen as possible remain in the economy, stays with the companies so that this indifference is also less. On the other hand, bank loans are expensive, hard to come by. Especially difficult to reach are companies that are hard to operate and are in a blockade, and we will discuss this under the second item of the agenda. Therefore, this intensity of our proposal is that it does not end up in the owner's pocket in the company, that it is not taxed and that it is thus de facto stimulated by shareholders and owners not to pay their profits but rather to remain in the company as trade funds and to settle other suppliers, pay salaries to workers and to reduce liquidity. Otherwise, nothing else is stimulated by shareholders not to make that profit because if they have to pay the tax and the profit that stays in the company, and then she says when I've already paid the tax, then I'll put it in my pocket. This is therefore to help the liquidity of the economy, but also in some ways to start a new investment cycle. And that is why we suggest that those funds that are reinvested, which are invested in new development, are also not subject to tax. So the funds don't go into the hands of the owner, the shareholder, but to invest in new development, in new investments. And that investments are needed by Croatia and the Croatian economy should not be specifically discussed. We are one of the few countries that has a very low level of investment. Investments in last 2010 are a third less than in 2009, less than in the previous years. So we have a very low level of investment. And without investment, without new development, there is no new employment, there is no new value, there is no higher standard of citizens, there is no higher salary, etc. Therefore, investment is also low, so let's help in this way not to tax the invested profits increase investment and to go finally into the economic recovery that we are waiting for. In Croatia there is very low employment, somewhere around 41% of us have employees. Countries in our environment, especially underdeveloped, have over 60%, tend to have 70%. Therefore, let us also enable this law to be untaxed, which will reinvest to start investments and new employment because this is the only way to get out of the crisis that we are clearly in. What unemployment is really not to talk about. Of course, I am sorry that the government did not support this law by justifying itself besides the fact that it would be a lack of funds in the budget. Yes, in the short term, yes. But apparently, the government only looks at the short term, how it survives this year, and then it will be over if it doesn't interest her. The budget will be short-term, but in the long run, if such an economic policy continues, it will be missing every year and we will increasingly be in debt not only 14 and 15 billion as it was the previous year and as it will be this year, but also more if economic policy continues like this. So, you can't just get out of the economy, just worry about whether it'll be enough in the budget. You can't keep milking the cow, not giving her anything. Therefore, you should think about how to get out of the crisis not only how to patch up this budget and how to survive this year because clearly the government's goal is just to survive this year by not thinking deeper. So one set of reform procedures needs to be done, and in tax policy, this is one of the laws that is on that track. The following is the Interest Tax Act, etc., in which we will therefore seek solutions and offer solutions to get out of the crisis. We offer these solutions civilized, reasoned, clear. I'm sorry the government doesn't accept it or the majority of the council. We're not for that, so when I say we offer clearly hope and loudly, it's loud enough here in the Parliament. I'm sure there were louder people here last night who were gathering at Mark's square, but we'd better discuss it here and listen to what's being said than listen to protests. We're not about to settle things with protests, we're a democratic country, and we need things democratically... to look for solutions somewhere else. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Therefore, we suggest that you accept this proposal because it is on the trail of economic recovery, because it is founded and reasoned, and let us not let things and problems begin to be solved elsewhere and not here in the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69537	Thank you. There is an individual debate, distinguished representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69538	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Let's just go back a few months at the time of the state budget. Remember, we're approaching the figure of slightly less than 300 thousand unemployed, economic growth is approaching the rate of 6% of the negative trend, so the country's liquidity of nearly 30 billion kuna, over 12 billion unpaid bills to the state, based on taxes, contributions, the investment trend negative in the two-digit figures, the country's growing indifference. And in this Croatian Parliament we bring a draft budget. On the one hand, the Government of the Republic of Croatia according to the same consumer budget model with 17 billion or slightly less than 17 billion deficits scheduled for this year, with certain restrictions to keep spending at last year's level with some hope that we will have a stagnation rather than a further economic downturn. And the SDP's proposal to make a completely different approach to making the state budget, to try to reverse trends in the economy with new economic models of tax policy, to start the economy to resolve its liquidity, to launch final investment activities in the economy, to try to keep at least the employees from going further and, in some ways, to achieve more positive results in the economy. And by very different tax policies, we can change the currents of the economy. Most in this Croatian Parliament have opted for a government model, and what we can say today, the situation is even worse. 334 thousand 378 unemployed, 37 billion indifference, unpaid bills to the state over 13 billion, another 20 billion unpaid bills to the state, but there's no way to say they made it. The general functioning of the public service is becoming less and less public expenditure in the budget for the reason that revenue is decreasing. The investment trend is even more halted and the losses are piling up. Better say when we look at the foundations of the new law, which will be taxes on profits markedly and further down the profit tax in this year because the Croatian economy records growing losses and other than the banking system are very rare, which show positive results, which show the profit to which the tax will be paid. Yes, without changing economic policy, without changing tax policies, there can be no change in the economy. It confirms our state budget adopted only a few months ago, and what's most tragic in February we are but in the next few months these trends will not stop. And now we can go back to the controversy whether this law would be useful or not. And the polemics between us here in the Croatian Parliament are what have startled us, because it is evident that the current policy does not produce results, we note the growing negative trends, we fully passively follow the collapse of the economic system,... individence, non-investment, dismissal of people and we argue that this Law would be even worse. It's something that theoretically is very difficult to understand practically even less we can understand. Gentlemen, is it possible that we don't trust the economy anymore? All messages to the real sector must try to get Croatia out of the crisis, the real sector, and how do we move towards this real sector? They're con artists, they're gonna steal us, they're not gonna pay taxes, they're tax criminals, we're not gonna be able to track them, and all the incentives towards them are lost money for the state budget, that these are messages from this House, and what we think about this real sector, which we think is the reverse, that the real sector would get us out of the crisis. The SDP Club does the opposite. We need a real sector, without the real sector, there's no getting out of these problems. And that's why we think it's necessary to achieve the real sector of every kuna he wants to invest in investment, and the tax administration is doing his job, so let the state organises properly and we trust them won't cheat on us. They didn't cheat on us in the past. Also why we're afraid of leaving money that the real sector itself is trying to solve its indifference, whether the number of 37 billion that rises from one billion a month means that we all have to get involved in solving this huge problem. So let's leave them some money if they want to use it, they won't cheat us, don't keep telling me about the banking system, you have the next law that talks about a tax on huge interest, let's deal with that banking system. But no, the banking system is a reason to say we won't leave them money if they hold it for liquidity, so how are we going to solve that liquidity, so... each other doesn't pay, destroy each other, close jobs, no more production. Well, it can't go on like that. And thirdly, are we aware that we can't solve that we don't have any measures to solve the number of employees at all, we don't have them. See the latest report we received from the Competition Protection Agency, which discusses incentives for employment. So in 2010. 60% less, only 46 billion. A year ago, 136 billion. So we don't give any money at all, we don't have any programs to encourage economics, keeping jobs, keeping employees. We're offering a new job here, new workers, so we leave that businessman at least a tax they'd charge him for profit if he's already engaged in employment. It's one of the measures that goes directly to the entrepreneurs. That's the difference. On the one hand, we don't believe in the Croatian Parliament because we make laws, we bring budgets, we don't trust these entrepreneurs, theoretically we talk, the real sector will pull us out, and when we propose laws that show what trust we have towards them, we give them opportunities, we give up financial potency, we give up some of the funds in the budget to give them the opportunity to start these negative trends. And now I'm going back to the effects in the budgets. So you hear, if we really don't think there's going to be a turn of trends, then there's no way out. But with these incentives, there must be a shift in trends. But if it comes to turning around, all that we invest that we temporarily give up, tomorrow it returns through greater economic growth, through greater profit, greater efficiency, greater success of this real sector. That's why we expect more money in the budget, not less. This is, of course, something that if he doesn't think it's part of economic policy, part of the measures that we're essentially dealing with problems in the economy and then we're filling the state budget, then we really don't understand each other. So we thought one of the measures. We can talk it won't work, it'll work. But be assured without the real sector, without faith in it, without its promotion the Croatian economy will not be solved by anyone. Therefore, one of these policies is mandatory to address part of the economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia through relief in profit taxes directly given to the economy. It's a suggestion from the SDP, and it's up to you to judge as a majority whether or not we're going to turn around.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69539	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Linic incorrectly stated that it was a public service threat. That's incorrect. However, whether pensions are regular and in time, they ate the available and quality health care provided very decently, whether the rights and social protection are secured, whether the rights of Croatian defenders are secured, are, but they would also be good to remember when you were the Deputy Prime Minister. A doctor’s work obligation was introduced, a reduction in the salary of nurses not to talk about educators who had to pay back when we came to power and all other rights. How was this responsible and how was this done, and was the team at risk of public service? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69541	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure expired at 9.54 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We are continuing with an individual debate, and it is up to the distinguished representative Davor Bernardić. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Then it is the honourable representative Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69542	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I will briefly refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax. Namely, it should be said that the Tax Tax Act was passed in 2004, changed several times, the last time in 2010, when we almost unanimously supported it in order to increase the tax discipline of taxpayers especially in the part of the use of the company's funds for private purposes, because the practice showed that there really are entrepreneurs who, in a tax sense, abused the purchase of eaten forms of long-term assets, so they used it for their private purposes. The fact is that profit tax is 20% among the lowest rates of taxation, which certainly affects the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Proposers listed established tax incentives, exemptions and incentives. I'm always up for accepting changes if they're really well-intentioned, if they have a purpose. I'm never gonna be a braker if something special happens if it's about the economy. But I have objections to this final draft law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act. First, what is seen is that in Article 1 of the Law, an amendment to the provisions is proposed to the Law on Profit Tax of 2004, however, the Law on Profit Tax still had 4 amendments to the National Journal 90/2005, 57/2006, 14/2008. and 80/2010. A year. So, if he wrote the law, he couldn't write the Tax Law on Profits of the National Journal 177/04. He should have written these other amendments, because this is how an entrepreneur who has read this law will only look at the 2004 law and will not look at these changes. And I don't think whoever actually wrote really read these changes and supplements and I think it's inconclusive. In the same point, point 1 says the proposal to introduce a new point 8. expenditure on unemployment salaries in the current year, it is indeed not clear. It is assumed to be referring to newly employed persons because, in the context of Article 1, the term paid for new employees in the current year is used, but I think if one law is written which is all two articles, then it must be true. It must therefore be stated above that it is the Tax on Profits from which year, changes and additions. That's to see that you read it so you know what you're changing anyway. This is how you change something you bring entrepreneurs into a dilemma, because they will read only the 2004 law will not read this amendment. The proposal also states in point 1 that the current points 6 and 7 of the applicable law become points 9 and 10 are also not applicable because the same points have been deleted by law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profits Act in 2006. My dears, you really haven't read the law, and that's not how the law can be proposed, where I say three articles that if I really accepted, I don't know what entrepreneurs would do. As for the reinvested profit, then you should say, because this is how it's said. This proposal therefore proposes to reduce the tax base from two articles in the first article, which is therefore calculated in the PD form when making annual accounts for reinvested profits, retained profits and salaries for the unemployed in the current year. In the case of reinvested profits, the question is, therefore, how is it calculated, from which positions the balance sheet is entered into a PD form which proves that the entrepreneur will invest in investments, so that he will have to justify it in the event that the investment period lasts for several years. Whether to place the amount of PD form based on some elaborate or mother-based form, it passes. The fact that if this is put in place, so the reinvested profit is reduced tax base, and the entrepreneur does nothing about it. What are the sanctions? If there's no sanctions, then there's a possibility that most entrepreneurs are being manipulated. And so I think the law should be unequivocal. So this is something that's really not defined. Secondly, the second article of the proposed amendments is therefore proposed to increase the tax base also through a PD form to say 14 for the paid-up of the debt and to give the following interpretation, quote. In the absence of a tax, the Commission notes that, in the absence of any advantage, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as with Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular with Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the So I don't understand what accounting category of earnings held back from earlier years on which no tax was paid when the retained profits in earlier years were determined after tax. I also don't know what time period it was before. So if one law is passed he must be unequivocal and accurate. And here is now in the debate that Mr. Linic had, he said, we give up some of the funds to get out of the budget to help entrepreneurs what is indeed, since Mr. Linic here is the legislator of this law and as a proposing that this law will not touch the funds from the state budget. So this is where we give up, and this isn't where they're gonna touch. Therefore, he should not be so hypocritical. I think it's just a law that goes for some pre-election purposes, that he's undefined and that whoever wrote it hasn't even read it and doesn't know what's changing and how. And this law can't really be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69543	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69544	Thank you very much. Comrade Nevenka, you've noticed well in your discussion, but I think there's one more thing to note. That the government has just increased the salaries of the category of employees most needed by reducing tax rates per income. You know three tax rates have been introduced. In this way, these existing rates have been reduced and these very tax rates have contributed to the fact that the salaries have increased precisely that part of the employees who have lower income, which is very significant, so that as far as that part of the government is concerned, in any case, it has been thinking through this Income Tax Act. As far as this law is concerned, I think you've noticed that he has in any case one populist note in this part, he's handsomely heard, it's convenient to see and it's normal to have something important in principle and he's not going to get rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69545	Replica reply, distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69546	Thank you, Mr. Kunst. This law really wasn't meant to get rid of anything. Because if it were written then it would be written in a serious way. So he would also be legally accurate, unequivocal and entrepreneurs who would read it would know how to act. He was written in addition to that, I read and that it was not legally called for in Article 1. So, the law and these changes and additions. And I'm saying again that when an entrepreneur takes this law so he can't handle it. He would have been reading this 2004 profit tax bill, and all these changes would not have been taken. Thus, it was not even done at all, it was not even read to the end. And it was written only because it was said that the opposition had prepared laws that most here did not want to accept. I think it's really unserious, and you should say who proposed it since the law really doesn't stand, which isn't really well written. So it was prepared by representatives Zoran Milanović, Milanka Opačić, Dragica Zgrebec, Slavko Linić and Ivo Jelusic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69547	And replicated representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69548	We are used to this House that every proposal we make, but every proposal, especially in the domain of budgetary policy, is characterized as illiterate, unprofessional, stupid, primitive. And now we've heard that we've got the epithet that we wrote it, but we haven't read it. Indeed, I must say such a level of controversy about such serious things is really always useful at the time when there is nothing to say for the quality of the proposal. We don't mind. In fact, we are trying to address you, but apparently these discussions can only benefit if someone sees them seriously from the side, so he observes what makes a difference. On the one hand, insult and protection of the wrong policy that leads to disaster. And every proposal that is being made even though your Prime Minister and our Prime Minister are calling for work and an attempt to help. But of course, one is an act for the public and the other is that we have insult and defilement. I have nothing on you and I can be illiterate and unprofessional and ignorant and stupid. But there's something you need to know, I don't care what you think of me. I'm trying to communicate with you, you're trying to insult me. I don't mind, but there's something else you need to know. You can talk about government measures but try to explain how you have reached 334 000 unemployed, down to wages, up to the growth of strategic food products of the Republic of Croatia, to the enormous growth of energy, to the suspension of investments and to the indifference of 37 billion. Just explain it when you're going to change your policy to stop exactly this disaster that you, with your insolent behavior towards any proposal, are trying to continue to lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69549	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I didn't, I didn't think you'd be offended, but really. ... Well, I did, I read the name, but if you say in Article 1 of the Law on profit tax, then you have to know, if you've ever written anything, applied the laws, that if you're writing "The People's Newspaper," no. 177/04. Then you have to say the follow-up to "The People's News", 90/2005, 14th and so on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, because if your entrepreneur takes these amendments, this law, he will see the 2004 Profit Tax Act. You can laugh all you want, but if you're working on this job seriously, responsibly, to run some accounting or some company's finances, then you should know it's very important. It is not clear to me that you have not all noticed that you have made a mistake in Article 1 or point 8. where you have said expenditures for the unemployed in the current year. So who pays the unemployed in the current year? How could you write that? So tell me, is that stupid? I think it's stupid. It may be a new employee, but you made a mistake here, you had that bill, you said how much. Here, as of November 18, you could have made amendments, amended your law, I think that would be best. It's so unserious, you really haven't read the law, you don't know what you're changing, and then you let someone else handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69551	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, respected representatives of the Ministry of Finance, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In order to be able to discuss, properly, and to talk about profit tax and about the need to exempt the income tax, we need to know the main elements and categories. We need to know the tax system, we need to know the budget process, we need to know the structure of the Croatian economy, we need to know the structure of the entities in the total profit achieved, we need to read the balance sheet, read the balance sheet of the real sector, read the balance sheet and the financial sector. We also need to know that profit tax is not a tax burden on economic activity, it is a tax on the effects of economic activity on the ultimate effect, and only on the positive effects. We need to know that in Croatia the profit is almost exclusively generated outside the real sector, most of all in the financial sector, banks, Leasing societies, insurance houses, and in telecommunications, TDR, wholesale drugs, and monopolies trade. That's where the profit is generated. Real-sector balances are in a catastrophic state, there's almost no gain, and we have to be aware of that, and there's no profit due to these others where 90% of total profits are realised, and they only employ 7-8% of the total employee population. That's the problem we need to know. We also need to know that gross added value is mainly created in the financial sector, not in real terms. We also need to know that tax exemptions, income tax payments only have economic logic if profits are included in the investment cycle, and in the financial sector the retained profits are not kept in the investment cycle and therefore there is no economic logic or social justification to exempt such profits from paying the profit tax. And we need to know all this for the sake of knowing who we'd eventually release from paying the profit tax. Will we release the tax on the profits of the telecommunications sector, which has made all the profits on the patents of depletion, draining of the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens? And in the most unscrupulous way and the most expensive impulses in the world? Is that what we're gonna do? We're gonna set this guy free? I would never. In my thinking of leadership, I find economic logic, economic legality, and general social, or national interests, and that logic prevents me from applying the methodology as it was at a time when Pliva 3 and a half billion kunas were released, and later and 3 and a half billion ended up in Switzerland at the expense of another company. This guide also prevents me from giving consent to the exemption of the tax on bank profits, such as it was to the Privredna banka Zagreb when it was sold and it did not benefit Croatia, nor Croatian society, but only the private benefit was. The same leader tells me that I cannot give consent to the release of financial sector entities. You are asking to support tax exemption on the banking sector, to free those who have earned 30 billion kuna in recent years, to free Zagreb Bank from taxes on profits that have never been privatised, which generates billions of kuna profits, and that retained profit benefits to pay dividends, i.e. shares to its members of the administration, and thus avoid tax. I'll never give consent to that. To free the payment tax from capitalism's main protagonist's profits, with an inhuman dimension? To free those who promote a high level of injustice by forcing profit orientation to the heart of a man? You want us to free the profit tax like that? Free the main protagonists of Croatian society's decomposition? No, I don't. I'll never let those get rid of paying taxes on profits. Free those whose money has become a religion? To free the pay of the income tax of those who throw millions of euros to show their faces in public in a different light than their real face? To make their faces more beautiful? You want us to free the profit tax like that? A face that doesn't sustain their true character. A face that is not a face, but a mask, and these masks are masks of dishonesty, and hypocrisy and service, and that of foreign service. And if we did and freed them from profit taxes, what would we get? Will this result in a reduction in interest rates? Not for a single prom. Will this result in a reduction in the price of telephone impulses, a reduction in the price of cigarettes or medicines? He won't. Is that why he'll come, to hire at least one more? It won't be safe. Will this result in an increase in gross social product, at least for one promil? It won't be safe. So will there be a positive economic effect for that? He won't. Then how can I support a proposal like this? To be free of the tax on the profits of those who earn the most in the state, who publicly order it, you are a risky country, you are a risky country, and we will finance your debt with 6% or 7% interest. First we release them from the income tax, and then they tell us you're too risky. So how come we're too risky? So if we're too risky, why hasn't any of the owners shut down any of the banks in the Republic of Croatia because of that risk? How risky we are when all of the bank's credit activities create exclusively from domestic savings without using a monetary multiplier at all. Why don't the banks leave Croatia? Because they're more comfortable here, warmer than anywhere else in the world, they're warmer here than they are in Mauritius. And that we're freed like that. No, I don't. What Croatia has to do with freeing those who will eventually deposit profits with banks and have a high interest rate on such deposits. Croatia has nothing to do with it, it has only great damage through high passive interest rates. To liberate insurance companies or fund management companies that fictitiously, the real estate market fell, and they fictitiously increase their bookkeeping price of real estate and their assets and charge for it. To free that kind of profit? I'll never agree to that. It'll never be my consent. Are we going to release the profits tax payments from the cartel wholesaler organisation that has financially built its empire in the state and in the sick citizens? I'll never give consent to get rid of the profit tax. I'll never be able to give consent to get rid of the income tax of those who have turned their lives into life, except the life of bonuses and privileges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69553	Thank you. And now we have one correction of incorrect allegations and 11 replicas. Well, let's take it in a row. Correction of the incorrect quote, distinguished representative Ivo Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69554	Thank you. I am correcting the inaccuracies of fellow Maric that this is about the exemption from paying the profit tax. It's not the intensity of the proposal to free anyone from paying taxes on profits. It's an incorrect, incorrect and habitual prank. So, we don't release the payment tax, but this law I said it wasn't going that way. We want anyone who gets paid to pay the tax. Here we just want her to profit that doesn't pay, which doesn't end up in the owner's pocket so she doesn't pay taxes and that she stays in the company so she can work with her suppliers, pay the workers and the rest. So we're not asking for a tax exemption for profit to be paid to anyone who gets there puts it in their pocket and who's going to spend it on their own needs, but we're looking for the part of the profit that's going to be reinvested and invested in new development and for the part that's going to be left in the company as a trade capital for paying suppliers, workers and the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69555	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas. First is the distinguished representative Nevenka Majdenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69556	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Maric, I really agree with you that when a law like this is passed that you have to know accounting policies, you have to know where the balance sheet sits in a PD form, without having knowledge then you can't even propose laws. I agree with you, you've done very well, who in some way would have the benefits of this law and I agree with you that you really don't need to be released, you don't need to add extra benefits, some extra bonuses. What's also important about all these laws, I'm talking about that this law really isn't, maybe it was a wish, but it wasn't well written, it really has to be exactly legal, it has lawyers, so it needs to be checked. Put in all the articles you need if you want something. But here's an example of a law that has led to great consequences and liquidity, and also to pay these salaries without contributions. We know it's the 2002 Payment Law, because then that institution had the right to control before. So when he brought in some company's salary, then both net and gross, i.e. contributions and taxes, were controlled. After that, the new Law on Payments is no longer available. This is the consequence of a 2002 law, a law that has been passed by the SDP and their coalition, and this is an example of how this law should be taken into account in its final adoption. So he must have one positive intention, but he must be well and written. Here, in that I mean yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69557	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69558	Thank you very much. My colleague Majdenic, I would support this proposal if the total in Croatia were mainly generated in the real sector. Then it makes sense not to pay profit taxes and make investments. However, if profits are generated exclusively outside the real sector, then there is no economic logic to not pay the profit tax because it cannot obtain any positive economic effects. But if there are cases that would be released from paying the profit tax and if we expect positive economic effects then such a proposal should be supported. However, because of this, when in the financial sector it is exclusively profit and that profit is not part of the investment cycle, then we cannot expect positive... effects, nor will it affect employment growth, nor will it promote economic activity nor investment. It just doesn't make any economic sense then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69559	Thank you. There's a replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69560	Thank you very much. You just said one of the things why your colleague Maric is good at this law. You warned of a large profit in one sector, in one area of the economy leaving Croatia. If you are in favour of this gain and that money achieved by economic activity in Croatia should remain in Croatia, we should support this law. Because if taxes are paid on that profit and it pays off that money will leave Croatia when we talk about banks. If the banks are forced to reinvest profits and have some economic interest and the purpose of this will remain money in Croatia. So that's exactly the logic we've been leading to make sure the money doesn't come out of Croatia. And when we talk about obtaining banks, the problem is Mr. Maric is that your government is one of the best committees of the sector and these banks, in debt at 6.7%, then banks can hardly lower their rates to Croatian citizens below that. And there's a fundamental problem, and that's where it needs to be solved, and then the banking sector will have a more interesting competition and lower interest rates. And that is why I hope that you will support and change your opinion by the end of the debate on this Law because it is going in this direction to keep the profits in Croatia, not to get out of it, to stay in it, to keep the profit reinvested, to open jobs and to benefit from it from Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69561	Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69562	A colleague, Maras, and so far, no one has been stimulated by banks, nor has anyone made it impossible to pay his profits to shareholders, and they have not paid out, out of their narrow interests, not the interest of the Republic of Croatia, as far as I am concerned and the interests of the Republic of Croatia let free banks pay their profits to their owners, none of this will have any damage to the Republic of Croatia. Because it increases the value and wealth of shareholders only, and neither the Republic of Croatia nor the gross domestic product benefit. Let them pay their profits freely, it will not affect liquidity or anything because they anyway have excess liquidity, and they cover their entire credit liquidity exclusively from domestic savings without using a monetary multiplier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69563	Thank you. It is the turn of the replica, the esteemed representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69564	Here is a colleague, Marić, you have noticed that someone benefits from this Law, as well as from all other laws proposed by the SDP, in one of the employers, in other employees, etc., it is all convenient, populist but all at the expense of the budget, which in any case is now insufficient. It should not be forgotten that 950m euros should be paid back these days for bonds issued in 2001, that all expect increases from this budget, that the mass of what we are all talking about should be calmed down, but let's look before I hear the threat of fellow Maras, they will bring you down, you will see this, thank you fellow Maras but they mention us and you together, so that there are no too many expectations. So let's see, we also hear about the unemployed, the unemployed in 2002 at the 3rd month there were 415 thousand, 415 thousand and dear colleagues, don't be afraid for that record we won't break it. You will be remembered safely in history as the government that produced the most unemployed. Your strategy you are offering is really great, here is your main economic, political analysts saying that in the Kukuri coalition the most important economic strategist is Radmir Cacic, who praisedly paid salaries to the Coning workers right now in the 10th month. So, you're big fighters against those who don't pay salaries to workers, and your most important partner coalition in the Kukurik coalition is the one who doesn't exactly pay off, and you shut up like a bunch of other things, like all the consequences that your proposed laws need to go to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69565	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69566	When you mention bank profits, your colleague Markovanovic is not exactly aware that the banks made 4 billion kunas in the last year, the data is not entirely accurate. They are not included in their Leasing companies, insurance companies, holding companies, let's remember the real estate of some, not including pension fund management companies, pension funds their profits are much higher than this profit, at least for a third. They increased their profits by 30% then and in times of the biggest economic trouble in the Republic of Croatia, and we need to know that part of this gain makes up positive exchange rates that banks with 31. The 12th draws the line and decides how big it will be. Is that a virtual profit we have to free the pay of the profit tax, I can never agree to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69567	Next replica, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69568	My colleague Maric is very clear to me about your bile regarding the financial sector in Croatia but we are back in history and we see that these are actually what happens now. And the consequences of what? The consequences of the privatisation of the financial sector in Croatia, and let's remember when the financial sector in Croatia was most privatised, let's remember that period. This was the period when the SDP was at the head of the coalition in power and then he didn't think about what the consequences would be on the citizens, what interests would be on those citizens one day so that this law on profit tax seems to be cleaning up someone's guilty conscience and we simply need to see and I am about, how to tax those banks that are really rudely high to get wolf in Croatia, have huge interest and then hear from some bank leaders say we can lower them, we will lower interest but only when Croatia enters the European Union because we are now a too risky country, it's total rude these same people were at the head of the banks and before they were privatised. And where there is sensitivity to this Croatian citizen, there is no. Unfortunately, that's the problem. In your debate, you said that if this Law were accepted, nothing would be achieved in fact as regards the opening of new jobs, and I ask you if something would be achieved to preserve individual jobs so that there would be even greater layoffs, etc. And then I find it interesting when Mr. Linic says, let's see why this government doesn't tell the public why there's been indifference, unemployment so much, it would be the same now that I'm asking you why you didn't explain to the citizens why there were 420 thousand unemployed, 120 thousand workers who worked didn't get paid, how there was a reduction in salaries to civil servants, tenants, freezing salaries, etc. It's now a circle that could be discussed by morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69569	Goran Maric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69570	Thank you very much. You've told me so much that I can't answer you in 10 minutes, but of course there won't be any more employees, but I'm sure they'll continue firing. This financial sector has raised all its production to the highest possible level and above all the European Union average has only increased at the expense of firing employees and they will not stop at this process. So the positive economic effects of this cannot possibly be, and what their sensitivity to citizens is best shown by the fact that 127 billion kunas of credit were implanted, and only in the last year did they earn 11 billion interest without fees, without fees, without other costs. This is how they poored Croatian society, that is how they poored Croatian society, and at the same time they did not want to finance the Croatian economy and Croatian companies, and this is all for the benefit of large banks, and the small ones want to destroy, and the Croatian economy has just saved the Republic of Croatia, but with high costs that are the same as for large banks with these repressive measures, they are being disabled and put in danger of even failing, and this will only be the greatest damage to the economy of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69571	Madam Representative Carmela Caparin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague, I'm not an economist, but with your debate, you've encouraged me to report for the replica. You said well that we need to know the structure of the economy in the Republic of Croatia that we need to know the structure of the subjects in achieving profits and one of these entities is pharmaceutical houses. A large number of pharmaceutical houses have huge profits. It's such competition and competition where certain media are involved, then there's such an atmosphere, that's what we need, that vaccine we need. Recently, we had an example of a vaccine that was trying to introduce itself into a regular vaccination program, which is completely pointless because we do not yet have research for this medicine, nor what are the consequences, nor when it is necessary to vacate, so it is pointless to enter the regular program, although of course it does not need to be rejected. But large cities such as Zagreb have completely begun to vaccinate a certain population and some other cities in the Republic of Croatia and others have not received this vaccine. So one spending campaign and selling that vaccine was created. Not only on this vaccine, but on certain other medicines where certain companies really have a monopoly on these medicines and where they have a terrible profit. For me, it is unthinkable that such companies with such a large profit would be free from paying taxes on that profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69573	Mr. Representative Slavko Linic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69574	My colleague Maric, why so much fear and mistrust. 93% of Croatian businessmen are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen working under the Law on Profit, 93%. Their total mass gain is small, but still needed for Croatia and needed to be well directed. Mr. Maric, you have read the rest of our laws, and I remind you of the Law on Contributions, where we reduce contributions, but that is why we are asking for the introduction of the capital gains tax and the SDP has been insisting for 5 years. Why? Because I don't agree that Telekom's taking dividends in Germany, and the German state's making telecoms charges profits, taxes. We also agree that bankers pay dividends on paid capital gains. Yes, for 5 years, the SDP has been offering you, and now he says to this package, if the banks that will have to write off because 37 billion kuna, there is their money, they will have to write off and save the Croatian economy and then they will need to capitalize the banks. So we say when you capitalize to save the Croatian economy you will be exempt from profit tax, but if you go to dividend then you will pay for it. But you see you're not going to change your tax behavior, that's the problem. It means when we say that investments, that saving the Croatian economy and banks must be saved together with the state, then you will be exempt from profit tax, but your dividend will pay taxes, you will give to the Croatian state, but you will not change the tax policy. So look at the whole concept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69575	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69576	My colleague Linic, I am for tax policy change, but systematically it is necessary to analyse and not bring any part of the year. The tax system needs to be changed at the end of the year and completely. And all you talk about here is the profit paid, and I'm talking about both paid and held back. The retained profits in telecommunications and the financial sector, the banking sector has no economic effect and you are aware of that. The telecommunications sector will only deposit those funds with banks, which it is now collecting 6.5% of the interest. And in the banking-financial sector, the retained profit does not seem to be part of the investment cycle and has no financial and economic effect. That's why it doesn't make sense that on a suspended profit you don't pay a profit tax. And it's true that 93% of what you've said is a small number of total economic operators, but 93% of total profits are made by just those who shouldn't be given the opportunity to get rid of the profits. So... in favor of 93% to contribute to some who make up 7%. It's not economically logical, and I can't support it at all, but let's just talk about this law and not the law package, because this is on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69577	Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69578	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Maric, this law applies to all entrepreneurs, so not to the financial sector and the telecommunications sector, or pharmaceutically, as we could hear there. Therefore, if the banking sector, if it reinvests its profits, therefore increases the underlying capital, certain security is obtained. The resources may well be more favourable at that time. If he keeps his profits, doesn't pay the dividend then increases his liquidity, then there will be a larger amount of money in circulation, in the offer, sure he won't be able to keep this high interest, he won't have reason to have high passive interest. It's similar to the telecommunications sector. Why would an annual billion kuna paid dividends untaxed in Croatia and acquired in Croatia charge some other countries by operating in Croatia? At least 2.5 million kunas annually leave paid dividends that are not taxed in Croatia. I agree with you, in Croatia is the best life, life on a bonus and privileges like you said, but what does our government do to allow a nice living on bonuses and privileges? I'm afraid nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69579	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69580	Comrade Zgrebec, when you say about the banking sector, one day it will show where the main problem is, one day it will show whose responsibility it has been for everyone and whose interests it has promoted. I only hope that day won't come too late. But the truth will come out. The lie is still running around Croatia, and the truth is only wearing shoes. But when you mentioned the pharmaceutical industry, I least trust her. Well, it's right in the pharmaceutical industry that ended up being president of the biggest drug company's board of directors freed Pliva 3 and a half billion kuna taxes on the profits of the slide for research. And right after that, he sits at the head of the board and the biggest drugstore. And now we're free of profit taxes? It's really in conflict with common sense, with economic logic in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69581	Thank you. Now we have one registered for a replica that, chairing a little illiterately wrote. Who is now before counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinovic applied for the replica? No, you're later. Anybody got any more before? What? It's not you. You're third, you're registered. But now this one that's here. My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69582	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleague Maric. Refusing this proposal of ours, saying it is not systematic, you are forgetting the entire package of SDP bills. You reject that, and then you keep focusing on the good life of those who live on the bonus, the privileges of the financial sector. I'm not surprised, and maybe you're doing it right. However, what did your colleague Zgrebec do to you, who gave them such an easy life? Who allowed banks to have a citizen when he didn't pay the last war for his apartment or to lose his house? We suggested and opposed it. You've all raised your hand for it. We're proposing a law that will detimise banks to raise interest rates on apartments, on real estate. You refuse. Tax also on dividends, capital gains. You reject all that, and now you mention it. Therefore, when the Government says give, help, do something really cannot be helped by those who will not be helped. But what will your party president and Prime Minister do? She's going to ask nicely, so don't worry about the banks because Mrs. Kosor is going to ask the banks nicely. But the way that they've got their backs together is the question of whether they'll have the courage to ask them, and then you help her do it. But you know what? While the government is acting like... The boot goes on them I... [[You can't hear the phone.]] But as long as the banks knock on the citizens' door, know that the citizens won't be so polite when they knock on the doors of the government. [[You can't hear the phone.]] [[Thank you very much. Replication response.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69584	My colleague Antičević, I haven't forgotten anything about how you called me just talking about a point that's on the agenda, not about others who aren't on the agenda. I'm not even talking about the causes because it's not the same on the agenda that led to this condition. Why and how it is privatised and never privatised Zagreb Bank. Well, I won't be investigating it! Let the State's Attorney's office investigate it once before. And that no June came from the sale of that bank to the budget of the Republic of Croatia. But they can't not pay profit tax, for example, real estate funds, fund management companies living off the state, living off a fee. And when they're prevented by an institution of control, the state's then told me he's an enemy, we're enemies of a state regulatory institution. They are not the enemies of the state institution, but they are the enemy of the law if they operate illegally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69585	Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69586	Thank you very much. So, colleague Maric, your debate, which I can say is correct because you only tied yourself to one small segment - the banking sector. It is that these answers to your past replicas have acknowledged themselves that this law is not worth observing, but should be observed as part of all these laws that SDP colleagues have offered. And I just don't want to believe that in that context you don't see the solution to that problem either. However, when we talk about the banking sector where you're all tied to the fact that the business of banks is one huge disproportionate to the business of the economy. And the fact is, and I believe you'll agree, and I want to hear from you whether in a serious, responsible country that is wisely guided and that thinks about social categories like this, that the banking sector is doing well and economically bad. The fact that with 50% of the financial flows since we are a highly centralised state is managed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with 50% of the total cash flows. Is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its strategy, is the Government of the Republic of Croatia trying to change something? And I'm sure the reinvested, taxing on profit for reinvested profits isn't enough. Surely the first step is a strong taxation extra profit. I'm sure it's the first step. Surely this second step is beyond that, which is to exempt taxes on reinvested profits. But there's a strategy for that. It is absolutely certain that management of financial flows, that good management of financial flows cannot be measured by quotes of fantastic water savings with blueberries and joints. This is certainly not one responsible strategy in managing financial flows.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69587	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69588	I didn't just focus on the banking sector. I stressed, I focused on the sector that makes 90% profit in the Republic of Croatia, and that is the financial sector in which both banking and all others enter, and that is the telecommunications sector. I've listed major drugstores, I've listed TDRs, I've also listed a monopolies trade. So, the ones, only the ones that make the profits. And this law only benefits them, not the real sector where profits are not realised. By applying this law, the damage per budget would be 5 billion kuna, and it would be suitable for those most profitable and still have 5 billion kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69589	And Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69590	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I almost gave up on the replica, they asked me colleagues here, so what are you going to do about Maric, and I say, I always learn something from Maric, and I listen very carefully, as many times he and his colleagues on the left listen carefully with approval, but when he somehow opposes them, then the rules of the game change a little bit. But I remembered one thing about fellow Maric where you said that the profit was generated outside the real sector, and that's where you mentioned the order of the bank, and I got a little stuck in the ear of the TDR. Of course, I can't discuss TDR, nor am I professional enough, etc., but as a doctor, I can mention little about the damage and consequences of smoking, so over 3 billion are set aside for treatment, because of smoking, 10% of the sick are more smokers than non-smokers. I'm just saying, let's not talk about malignancies that we've brought the resolution on. So let us remember how much difficulty we have brought in those laws, about smoking and enabling healthy life to those who don't smoke, so this remains a lasting goal and a lasting need to work on protection, and in that part, regardless of the gain, we must not meet and continue to endure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69591	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69592	My colleague Milinkovic, you surprised me with this definition of generating profits outside the real sector. I see you've learned a lot in a short time. And you said yes, you mentioned TDR. So imagine that the retained profit of the TDR is free of the pay of the profit tax, that they buy the rest of Croatia and other companies in Croatia, that they buy shares of the INA as they intended, so they said 5 billion kuna that we buy shares so it costs us something, in return you will get Plomin, HEP, already with one law firm with ready contracts to sign what the state will give them if they buy the shares of the INA. So what good does Croatia benefit from TDR buying shares of INA? Nothing. Only they would benefit, because they would be more expensive to sell tomorrow to partners who would not be interested in selling shares to those partners and earning more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69593	5-minute debate, SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I would like to remind you of a few facts. The SDP sent the first version and the first proposal of this and another 20 laws to the procedure on November 19th 2008. It is very important to pay attention to this moment, i.e. for the moment when the SDP warned that Croatia is seriously entering the recession and that this government is not doing much, i.e. that it does not want to admit that Croatia has economic problems and that these problems will be even greater. Then some ministers, the former prime minister of the government, said that the crisis will not leave us, there will be no problem, Croatia will, since there is a small market, and the crisis is happening in the world, it will not feel it. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that, it was an excuse not to do anything. We have proposed 20 laws, one of these laws was the Tax Tax Act, and the argument at the time of Minister Shuker and fellow government is what you propose will be a reduction in certain tax revenues in the budget, and will jeopardise the sustainability of the budget. They were talking back then, and now they're talking about 2 billion kunas of profit tax. What happened after, for the next two years, not that it took us 2 billion kunas of profit taxes from the budget, but it took us 5 billion. In 2008, the profit tax paid to the state budget was 10 billion kuna, in 2011 the estimate will be around 5 billion kuna, and that is, unfortunately, so when you look at certain proposals only from a mathematical point of view, that is how much revenue or expenditure will bring more or less on the basis of these indicators that you can calculate, and you are not looking at the environment, you are not looking at the direction in which Croatia is moving. And what has HDZ and coalition partners done in the last two years? We've reached a record unemployment rate of 334 thousand people. That was not the rate, and such a number has not been since 2004. Seven lost years after this power, in seven years, there won't be one less unemployed than when they took over. Seven lost years. We've reached 37 billion kunas of internal indifference, we've come to an economic downturn of 8% in the last two years, we've come to a collapse of investment. Last year, Croatia alone has 30% less investment in the environment than other countries, which have increased the number of investments. Croatia is the only one in this part of the world who has achieved an economic downturn in 2010, and that is all the consequence of what you have failed to do, to do what the SDP warned in 2008 and for which we have proposed 20 and some laws, and that is the difference between responsible and irresponsible behaviour of the authorities. Unfortunately, you will leave this country in a situation worse than it was in 2000, and unfortunately these all consequences and dissatisfaction of the people we see these days are exclusively the fruit of your unhappiness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69595	Thank you. Three corrections. First Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69596	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's an incorrect assumption that we have a record unemployment at the moment. The record unemployment was at the time of economic growth, and when you ruled the state in 2003 you had an unemployment rate of 415 thousand people, so you had a record unemployment which we can't even reach now despite a severe economic crisis, which is not only in Croatia, but in the whole world, almost in the developed world and Europe. And when you speak to countries in the environment, I don't know what you mean? Yugoslavia? What countries do you think are surrounding? Look at Slovenia, does it have the same economic downturn? There is, there is a bigger one. There's a bigger deficit in the state, what are we talking about? What countries do you mean, what environment?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69597	Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic, next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69598	Thank you very much. Here's what I remind my colleague of is that I'm correcting his inaccuracy when he's talking about record unemployment. Well, we just heard that record unemployment was exactly when you were in power, so it's incorrect. Far greater numbers than it is today. When you keep talking about 37 billion dues, debt, then I must remind you that we have a transfer from the former Yugoslavia, so it's pulling out of 90 over 20 or close to 20 billion. Therefore, please do not say that this is a debt that was created back a year, two, three days, and especially not to talk about the global and economic crisis that has ruled the whole world, and you only show it in Croatia that this government is responsible for this situation today. So please don't persistently deceive people when that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69599	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69600	Well, my colleague said that all he's going to say in the country is the fruit of your unhappiness, like the unhappiness of the HDZ. I will remind you of what is normally incorrect because you know very well, and this is a little EPP for the public what you said, you know very well what is affected Croatia and the environment of Croatia by this crisis. But remember what the fruit of your work is. The fruit of your work is 4 billion kunas that Croatian citizens had to pay for because at that time your government did not want to respect the legal regulations of collective union contracts. 4 billion kunas that had to be allocated, imagine that 4 billion kunas are now, how much money it would be to help both the unemployed and the employees and everyone. So I mean, let's not be hypocritical.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69601	And final review, on behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I already said yesterday that these six laws are actually part of the budgetary policy that we wanted to present before the adoption of the budget, the adoption of the 2011 budget. I will repeat that given the government's frequent calls for the opposition not only to criticise or to stop just criticising that we have been proposing something for several years, we are actually constantly proposing certain laws, a few dozen in this term. However, specifically about this law, amendments and additions to the Law on profit tax other than the Government's opinion through debate, through replicas, through the corrections of the ruling majority, we have actually failed to hear new reasoned reasons why we are not changing part of the tax policy, and what have we heard? We've heard insults, we've heard a return to the past which is what anyone left to whom. And I think today is the time when most of the countries in our environment and the world are coming out of the economic crisis, and we are still deep in the recession that it is time in Parliament, if we cannot achieve dialogue elsewhere. Dialogue opposing different opinions, ideas and then coming together to some solutions. Obviously, in this assembly of Parliament, we cannot achieve the Croatian Parliament. What did we hear? Nomotechnical remarks. This is the first reading, and we can't give our colleagues amendments. We saw that we had a typeefeller, yesterday a correction came to the bench. So, in the first reading, we can't make amendments, we've made a correction. If there are any other nomotechnical errors possibly in the second reading, it is possible to correct it until the second reading. What else did we hear? We have heard that the adoption of such a bill would lead to a deficit in the budget revenues of 2 billion kuna. And what do we have for a continuous three, four years in a row? We have a continuous drop in economic activity and a drop in tax revenues. And if we keep this up with this tax policy, we're going to get to the point that we're not going to have 15 billion deficits, but maybe by the end of the year and 20 billion deficits. Just consider that in the last two years there will be a deficit with now planned and achieved last year's 30 billion kuna. If we don't raise economic activity, we'll still have drastic tax revenues. If we are not to introduce, reduce existing taxes, and introduce new ones, i.e. increase the basics and introduce taxes on those incomes that are non-taxable today, we will indeed come into a situation that no one will be able to pay taxes anymore. We focused on income tax, profit and consumption. Consumers fall, wages fall, unemployment rises – of course you have no tax revenue. And when here, in fact, the biggest controversy led to that we want to free that financial and telecommunications and some other sectors that are highly accumulating do not pay taxes it is not true, do not pay the tax on profits. It is true that we want to invest in Croatia. Investments were held at a very low level in 2010, and what kind of year it will be in 2011, no one dares to predict it. We don't have foreign investments, they fell 50%. They are the lowest in 2010, the lowest in the last six years. And we think that by joining the EU, we will increase foreign investment. If we are not to spread the tax base, there will be no discharge of current taxpayers. And I will repeat, we propose to reduce the base for the tax on profit on reinvested profits because that means that we will either increase technological equipment and retain existing jobs, increase productivity or invest in new facilities, and reduce unemployment. When we say that the tax base is reduced by retained profits, it means that we will increase liquidity which is catastrophic, that companies that will not pay the dividend from which tax revenue does not come in the budget, that they will have more crafts and that there will be a less need for expensive loans. And when we say that the tax base is shrinking for the salaries of new employees, then it means that we will release the payments of a part of the tax that is now overpriced for most of our entrepreneurs. The average salary in Croatia is taxed when you take taxes and contributions almost 50%. It's an unsustainable state and if we don't see it and if we don't figure it out then we're really going to get into trouble that's going to deficit growth that we won't be able to cover with loans anymore. Thank you, everyone who took part in the debate, I hope that through this debate and through the debate on our next laws that we have proposed, we will still come up with some results and that the Government will nevertheless perceive that these problems need to be addressed. The issue of records and what the government actually wants to show itself as a problem is really not a problem. In today's era of computerisation, keeping business books, records in business books, and any changes in the balance sheet are actually visible and very easy to control, and in the existing law and in one tax law there is no developing techniques, the technique is being elaborated by regulations and so on, and so on, and if such an idea were to be accepted, this would be developed by no law. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69603	Thank you. Two corrections, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69604	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's a false and incorrect assumption from my colleague Zgrebec that we have a continuing downturn in tax revenues. What you said about us having a continuous downturn in tax revenues is false, why? Because you could read that in January, we had a higher income than taxes by 1.8% compared to January last year despite the fact that we didn't have the crisis taxes we had last year in January, so last year. We had abolished crisis taxes and we had a growth in tax revenue by 1.8%. To what does this lie serve you, this falsehood only to justify a senseless law that would only please those who are the richest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69605	Mr. Representative Ante Bagaric. Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69606	Comrade Zgrebec, you said you could hear insults here today. That's not true, because there were no insults here, and I've been here the whole time, I haven't heard a single insult unless you're experiencing that the HDZ attitude versus your laws is bad and of the 20 that you're saying you proposed, there were several of those in the field of health. Which I know reliably that the uninformed may not be so bad, but they have only one flaw that is inconclusive. According to that, if they're insults, I accept them, but I'm saying there was no offense, but you've proposed laws that are simply inconclusive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-24-0.u69607	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax on Profit. Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. In accordance with the proposal of the Government and the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft law amending and supplementing the Tax on Profit Act is not adopted. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. The result? With 75 votes in favour, one abstention and 29 against the proposed conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is over. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing the March 2nd session at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the Final Proposal for a Law on finding, marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II.
