ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67415	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. I warmly welcome you all, and I hope that during this weekend, you have taken advantage of the time and nature of the weather and that we have recharged our batteries so that we can continue our work. Here is how we announced the item on the agenda - The draft plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2011 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Law. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67416	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Allow me to present to you a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2011. As every year, complete and timely information on all legislative activities stemming from the process of accession to the European Union should be provided to the Croatian Parliament and the Assembly MPs, and this is of particular importance at this final stage, the final year of the negotiations. I would like to begin by saying that Croatia has fulfilled all obligations relating to the harmonisation of national legislation with the current acquis of the European Union in the accession process. Bringing 507 so-called. The laws of the European Union and the 1274 sublegislative acts in the period from 2000 to today have brought our legal system into maximum conformity with European law and have transposed into our legislation the best legal solutions resulting from the acquis of the European Union. Therefore, Croatia started with optimism in 2011, it will be the year of completion of the accession negotiations and the year of signing the accession treaty for Croatia to the European Union. In the current course of negotiations, of a total of 35 chapters, the negotiations were opened in 34 chapters. The reason why they are not in 35 is only one, because Chapter 35, which is called the rest, opens and closes at the very end of the negotiations, is therefore a formality. Of these 35 in chapter 28 negotiations are temporarily closed. In this last 2010 a total of 6 chapters were opened, temporarily closed 11 chapters, which really entered the final and decisive phase of the negotiations. The remaining 7 chapters we intend to close and conclude negotiations by the end of June. Since, in most chapters, work on meeting the closing criteria is largely complete, I would dare say that it is fully completed. We expect that at the next Intergovernmental Conference announced on 19 April this year, we will close the additional three very important, demanding, complex chapters, which are Chapter 11. Agriculture, Chapter 13. - Fish and Chapter 22. Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments. Croatia also continues to implement the necessary reforms and all other activities necessary for membership in the European Union, but primarily to strengthen the Croatian economy and society as a whole. We are therefore determined to make every effort necessary to complete some of the most demanding reforms such as the Justice and Public Administration Reform, the fight against corruption at all levels, the processing of war crimes, the resolution of refugee and minority issues, and the restructuring of shipbuilding, and will be a major emphasis in these areas in the coming period. The full readiness of Croatia at the moment of membership will, of course, be our great success, but also the best indicator of the success of the policy of enlargement of the European Union and of the European project as a whole, but also of Croatia's success, Croatia's conclusion of the negotiations will also be a motive for the countries of our neighbourhood of Southeast Europe to move more decisively with reforms and that they also follow our Euro-integration path. We are extremely pleased with the support we have from the member states, we are also pleased that the conclusion of the Croatian negotiations is one of the priorities of the Hungarian Presidency. You saw and heard yesterday what Hungarian Prime Minister Orban said and announced that we expect him to get the date of the negotiations in April. So we have very strong support for member states, we also have support for other important international actors, so we expect that we will bring the negotiations to an end by the end of June. As I pointed out earlier, Croatia fulfilled all obligations relating to the harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union in the accession process to the European Union. So, as far as the negotiations are concerned, we have brought our legislation in line with European Union legislation. The Government of the Republic of Croatia referred the Croatian Parliament to the adoption of all legislative proposals provided for by the legislative plan for the conclusion of negotiations on full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union for 2010. And here they came to us yesterday and today they will come to the Parliament and the final laws that are important for meeting the criteria in Chapter 23. This is the Law on the financing of the political activity of electoral promotion and the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. In addition to these laws, however, the acquis of the European Union is constantly developing and Croatia will be obliged as a Member State to comply with its national regulations with the acquis of the European Union. So, and after we have finished negotiations, we will have to align our legislation every year with the legislation of the European Union because it is also changing, and therefore it is not the same, it is not permanent and it is changing in line with the interests, in line with the changes that are taking place in the Union itself. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up and adopted this year a Programme for the acquisition and implementation of the legal property of the European Union for 2011. We have joined this document in preparation for Croatia's functioning under the conditions of full membership in the European Union. It is a programme for transposing the new acquis of the European Union, such as other Member States, which carry out regular annual coordination with the new acquis of the European Union, so that the Czech Republic, Poland, Lithuania, Bulgaria, and a number of Member States, through specific information systems, are accompanied by the timely takeover of the acquis in accordance with its entry into force. An integral part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for the adoption and implementation of the legal acquis for 2011 is the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2011. This plan provides for the adoption of a total of 40 laws that take over the new acquis of the European Union and where Croatia changes its legislation in parallel with the Member States of the European Union in line with the recommendations of the European Commission and the follow-up of the active monitoring of the development of the acquis. This is how we are already in this year and in the Croatian Parliament is passed the Law on Amendments to the Witness Protection Act, the Law on Confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the EU and the Republic of Croatia on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the programme for lifelong learning and the Youth Programme adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and sent to the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, the Act amending and supplementing the Electronic Communications Act is adopted for the purpose of harmonising with the amendments and additions to the European Union regulatory framework in the field of electronic communications adopted in November 2009, and will enter into force in the Member States of the European Union in May 2011. Subject changes and additions to the regulatory framework that has been in force since 2002 are primarily aimed at strengthening the rights of users of services, further strengthening the independence of national regulatory authorities, encouraging and facilitating investments in electronic, communication infrastructure, and opening internet access for all citizens. Furthermore, Croatia will be in line with the new acquis in the field of the internal energy market, on the liberalisation of the electricity and gas market, and it is necessary to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities, the Law amending and supplementing the Electricity Market Act, the Law amending and supplementing the law on the gas market, the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. These are laws passed by other Member States. And here is the information and EU Member States are obliged to implement the necessary adjustments to national legal systems by 3 March 2011. It is therefore exclusively about the laws that are in line with the new rules of the European Union and the additional recommendations of the European Commission, and with the follow-up of commitments made in the already closed chapters of the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, by presenting a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union in the current year, I am assessing that the adoption of this document gives Croatia a clear sign that, in parallel with the conclusion of the negotiations, Croatia is also preparing for active membership in the European Union. With continued harmonisation, we will ensure timely and correct application of the legislation adopted. This way, upon entering full membership, Croatian legislation will be fully complemented by the current acquis of the European Union. With this approach, Croatia is clearly showing its readiness to act as a Member State at this time. We will also bring these programmes in the coming years of our membership in the European Union when we will also be able to work more and more hard to promote both our national and national interests through participation in the creation of common policies of the European Union. Finally, the amendments to the Constitution of June 2010 established the exercise of the supervision of the Croatian Parliament over the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the institutions of the European Union, which will be regulated by a special law. The adoption and monitoring of the implementation of the plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union may also be considered as one of the effective means of implementing that supervision. Given the key role of the Croatian Parliament in discussing and adopting legislative proposals, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67417	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67418	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Government, Croatia's first legislative harmonisation plan was made almost ten years ago. It was not our obligation at the time, because the obligation of this kind of document to make this kind of state gets when it becomes an official candidate for membership, and on our part we did it because we thought that we would have a clearer view of the jobs that we should do at that stage. This was primarily related to the implementation of obligations and Stabilisation and Association Agreements, and in this respect to the adaptation of legislation, and on the other hand, to ensure that our job of harmonising legislation with the acquis of the European Union starts to work systematically, and that negotiations on full membership are already part of the work done, and thus reduce the duration of the negotiations. However, while learning from others who had passed this process before us were willing to conduct negotiations that could have lasted record short because of reasons that we were largely unable to influence, our negotiations are now among the longest-running ones. In that sense, some of which we could hear these days, such as yesterday's Hungarian Prime Minister Orban whose country holds the presidency of the European Union in this semester, which is how we should get the official position of the EU member states in April on the final date of the negotiations in this sense, are welcome. Because after all these years, we will be among the transition states, but not only among the transition countries, we will be the most ready new member of the European Union. We hope that the date will be as announced by Prime Minister Orban for the Hungarian presidency. So, in 2011, Croatia finally wraps up negotiations, and in this year, a transition begins for all our institutions. While so far when EU membership has been a matter of attention, it has been focused on negotiations, standards and everything else that is related to accession from now on, we need to focus more and more on issues that prepare us to function as members of the European Union, and that, although many still do not, it will be a real continuous and big job for all. So we entered a period during which all in Croatia, who are in a certain way participating in the big and responsible business of preparing the Republic of Croatia for membership, have a big job. This is true, both for the government and its bodies and negotiating teams, and for us in the Croatian Parliament. However, the census does not end at the government and the Croatian Parliament. Everyone must prepare for membership. For example, to mention only some of the most prominent, there is a whole segment of the judicial authority that has a large and important job in the Justice segment, there is an economic chamber and other institutions that represent the economic sector, which are working on the preparation of this sector for action on the demanding common market of the European Union, there are regional and local self-government that will need to participate in the structural funds of the European Union, etc., etc. In that part, I also see one of the tasks that we, among others, have, are parliamentary representatives, which is that in our election units we should also encourage representatives of local authorities and institutions, and companies to prepare more actively to function in the membership of the European Union. And if we had entered a qualitative new phase, when it comes to harmonisation of legislation, we would have witnessed exactly the document we are now discussing. Unlike earlier years, when the national harmonisation plan was a document with a large number of pages, this year we have 40 laws that represent a plan to bring national legislation into line, this time with a new acquis. And this will be the main job that the Croatian Parliament will have to do with the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. However, as we now coordinate legislation only ex post, our job will also be to monitor the preparation of new legal gains. In accordance with the provisions of the Lisbon Treaty, national parliaments have been given more power, and they include, among other things, reviewing the subsidiarity of the acquis, and under certain circumstances, a proposal for a new regulation for which a sufficient number of Member States' national parliaments determines how this matter should be regulated at national rather than at European level. In order for us to be able to do this great work, the Croatian Parliament will have to prepare for the daily reception and processing of hundreds of pages of documents that will come parallelly to several addresses in Croatia. Finally, the Croatian Parliament has done a great job in the context of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, taking into account that some 500 laws are in line with the EU acquis in its preparations for membership. However, as the poet said, "only the change is eternal," so from now on, we will have new alignments whose dynamics will depend on changes in the legal gain, and that it is intensive shows the information that we need to bring 40 new laws into line this year. Since this is a commitment that each new member assumes through the conclusion of the negotiations, and negotiations are one of our high priorities, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support that proposal for a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67419	Thank you. One notice. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr Petar Selem, called the committee today at 13:30 p.m., on 9 February at Stjepan Radić's Hall 133/I. I also ask the clubs to ensure the presence of MPs and representatives today at 12 o'clock in as large a number as possible to supplement the agenda that we have to do, so that some of these laws that should be passed within a certain period can actually be passed. So it'll be very short at 12 o'clock, so you can do other things, with a shift of 5 minutes. Here's today at 12 o'clock. I'm asking the clubs to secure it. Okay. We're continuing with this agenda point. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party, HSU, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67420	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Director, colleagues and colleagues. This bill of harmonisation plan is indeed, as the minister said, to the greatest extent that the changes that have taken place in these laws under the legal acquis of the European Union, in the meantime, so once we have brought them into line in the Croatian Parliament, since the content of the acquis is changing and in the European Union itself, then it is necessary to align with the new situation and its legislation, and that is, of course, our regular work that we have to do. However, there is a great chance that these negotiations, it seems, are also the basis of an existing general political will, which is also an important moment in Croatia's entry into one, including a political association, so there is a critical mass of positive political will that our negotiations end in June this year and indeed all of us would have to concentrate on this job together. We, de facto, have six chapters left from the negotiations, and the 7th, which is called other issues that technical nature will not negotiate much, but these 6 are also largely the most significant, most complicated and financially demanding chapters. The Hungarian presidency was scheduled by two intergovernmental conferences, so the two meetings in which these chapters are closed. One is scheduled for April 19th. The Intergovernmental Conference should close the chapters of regional development and coordination of structural instruments, the agriculture chapter and the fisheries chapter. On 2. Three remaining chapters should be closed at the Intergovernmental Conference on 21 June. It is a competition in the context of which our shipbuilding, the judiciary and fundamental rights and financial and budgetary provisions are closed at the end when we see what obligations are taken and what is the situation in these chapters. It would be of great interest to us as a country which, therefore, I say to all of us, as a country that has achieved its first and so far the only political consensus on this European project, to try to be ready to close some of these chapters that have been left for the last term, so for June this year. Let's try to be ready to close those chapters eventually and something sooner. So, to see with the Hungarian presidency whether there is a possibility that any Justice, any Market Competition we try to close on, if the Hungarian Presidency accepts or recognizes it as a need, we try to close at least one of those 2 complicated chapters at a possible extraordinary additional intergovernmental conference in May. Which of course means that on the Croatian side one of those two chapters should be fully prepared. By Friday this week, so until the day after tomorrow, it is time to send out all documents showing how we are making progress on reform in the Chapter – Justice and Fundamental Rights. You know and remember that here in Parliament we have passed some laws that really change the level of legislation of what is happening in the judiciary and how institutions are elected, as they are called. First, as elected by the State Judicial Council. The second round of elections for those two councils is tomorrow. And on the other hand, we have roughly 10 in this chapter, if you factor them out, you can get to 50, but formally 10 criteria, but of these 10 criteria we have 6 so-called. track-records. So at six points, we have to show not only that we have changed the laws but that we have started to enforce these laws and that it has some effect. So, what's practically happening. There was now the final selection of judges of some combination of the old system and the new system. Let's just say that this was some transition phase, but there's no transition phase anymore from tomorrow. So, we do this chapter if we do not respect our own laws in which it writes taxively what the State Judiciary Council is required, not arbitrarily but necessarily, to respect in the selection and promotion of judges, and just to remind you that there are 16 criteria formally prescribed in the election law at this stage until they have completed the State Judicial School, 3 points or 3 criteria regarding the number of points and the State Judicial Council is obliged to respect it in decisions, to make a ranking list, to publish it on the Internet and to respect it in the appointment of new judges in the order of that list. Everything else disqualifies us to complete negotiations and disqualify us all to close Chapter 23. Therefore, it would be good if we were able to close it, or at least have a closure, for example, at such a hypothetical Intergovernmental Conference in May this year. Since we have come close to the end of the negotiations and the first chapter we should close on 1. The Intergovernmental Conference, therefore in the group's first three chapters, is also regional policy and coordination of structural instruments. Let me present some information and make a proposal on behalf of the HNS-HSU club. Therefore, in this chapter, the Regional Policy and the coordination of structural instruments are also funds and cooperation with European funds. I have here data on the use of funds pretty fresh. So, on January 21st, 2011. This shows that we have made relatively good or even very good use of those funds that involve paying foreign consultants. But that we have exploited the weak or extremely weak funds involved in financing our projects. So projects in Croatia. So I'm going to mention it, and that's IPA A, B, C and IPA 4 and IPA 5, just to repeat to myself and to you what that means. So, Transport, Environment, Regional Competitiveness, Human Resources and Agriculture. So as far as traffic is concerned, there's still not a deadline yet, but so far and so far for these funds, and it's always going to be 3 years further on that last deadline, so 2007-2009, as Prometheus used 17.46%, as far as the Environment is concerned, I'm not talking about foreign consultants, but directly for IPA 3A projects. IPA 3B – We used 16.16%, for regional competitiveness we used 44.68%, we used 64.93% for human resources development and we used 5.9% for agriculture at this stage agreed or assigned, so in the final phase. So, of everything that was available to us and is available to us in that period in 2007-2010, we used below 6%, 5.9% This is if you take all categories from IPA that's from 283 and a half million euros, 23% on average. So 64 million and 700,000 euros. In some cases, such as human resources reach 65%, 64.93 but in some areas such as agriculture reach 5.9, i.e. the environment 16.16, i.e. transport 17.46. Obviously, according to this, this data tells us, I mean, without some possibility of us mistaking the conclusion that we funds from pre-accession funds will not be able to use. Therefore, the proposal of the HNSH Club is, and as far as I know there is a certain willingness, let's say preparedness to consider this by the European institutions, that these funds remaining from pre-accession funds are proposed to be proposed according to the criteria of development, you remember that we brought here last year the index of development of municipalities, cities and counties in the Republic of Croatia precisely in order to benefit from the allocation of funds for projects, however, this development index is later not very useful, that we are now using this development index and that according to that criterion we will not be able to use, and I think I can freely say that if we have now used 283.5 million euros, we can freely say that there is room for around 100 million euros from these pre-accession funds, which we are obviously not able to use, that according to the indexing of development and the distribution of municipalities, cities and districts and counties that they can, which are now not be able to prepare for projects in the projects to be prepared. You know that we enter when we finish negotiations, we enter the stage of using structural funds, they are no longer pre-accession, these are what we talked about a billion and a half 2012, but obviously we will not finish it all, but in principle 2012 and 2 billion euros 2013. However, in order to withdraw these funds from municipalities, cities and counties must make projects, and projects also cost, we remain with funds from pre-accession funds. On behalf of the HNS and HSU Club, we suggest that the possibility of funding from pre-accession funds that we will not be able to use is allocated to municipalities, cities and counties intended to create projects with which to run for structural funds, for the funds that are coming to us when this process is over. And finally, on behalf of the HNSH Club, I draw your attention that both the Government and the Parliament, if we want to prepare ourselves, and if we want to use the structural funds that are ahead, we will have to make a decision on how local, at the level of municipalities, cities and counties will finance the development of projects, in principle and in the future. For this first phase we suggest, people have to have some security, who's going to pay back that money, how they're going to set themselves up, whether they're burdening their budgets, whether they're getting extra funds. For the first hand, we think it can be isolated from these and rerouted 100m euros for the first phase of project preparation, and for the future, the government and parliament must make a decision. Various countries have decided differently, we can take models of others, but some decision on how this will be financed at the level of municipalities of cities and the county must be made. One more sentence, people need to start a campaign to inform citizens. Wide, not this chamber we've had so far, wide open, with all the MPs and people who can get involved in it. If we're going to successfully bring this to an end, we've had to start a campaign to inform citizens. With these suggestions and comments, the HNS and HSU Club will support the adoption of this plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67421	Thank you. We have one correction by MP Marija Pejcinović Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67422	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to correct the incorrect assumption that we haven't used funds to fund our projects. I would appeal here it is not good to talk about projects whose deadlines have not been completed, the only criteria that the delegation of the Commission the European Union recognises are agreed projects and payments according to agreed projects. In this sense, Croatia's data from last year were all above 85%, when it came to bargaining, the CARDS, FAR, ISPA which could measure then, the SAPARD was 62, and as far as paying all Cards were above 90, for the Far 2005 was 79%, so please do not talk about what has not yet been completed, only about transport or environmental protection. You've got big projects, you've listed 21. One could have been 22. 2 or bargaining and then maybe the use would be quite different. Don't talk because it seduces the public, and brings discouragement to those who want to report to the projects, you can measure the contract later payment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67423	Thank you. Vice-President and Minister Jandrokovic, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67424	Thank you very much. Here I wanted to get back to you, given that some things have been presented that really do not correspond to the real situation, so first for the Croatian public, and also for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, Croatia is among the better countries in exploiting pre-accession funds when it is combined with countries that have entered the EU in the last wave. And that's simply a fact, Mrs. Pusic, whether you like it or not, that's how it is. As far as this data is concerned, it changes every day. So if today is something 16% one big project can take advantage of up to 60, 70% and we've seen it in the funds we've used so far. This is how it will be with the IPA and there is really no reason to panic and there is no reason to panic, because Croatia is quite solid and that is the assessment that we received from the European Commission, it fully meets what is necessary to use funds from pre-accession funds. Furthermore, you mentioned a good proposal that funds from pre-accession funds are used to create projects for structural funds. Well, respected MPs, that's what they're doing. And here I am now informing you and the other representatives, the Croatian public that a part of the funds from pre-accession funds is now intended for the preparation of structural funds documentation. So, it's good that you suggested it, but here's what you gave me the opportunity to inform the Croatian public that it's already working. As for the communication campaign, yesterday we had information at the government about it and here we are in a very soon start with a stronger information campaign than before, and of course in the period before and after the signing of the treaty as before the referendum we will have an intensive pre-referendum campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67425	Thank you. We have Mrs. Vesna Pusic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67426	Thank you, Mr. President. I mean, it's not true that my data isn't accurate, they're correct. Maybe since 21.1. in these two weeks something's changed and God forbid it's changed. The data is what it is exactly agreed and assigned and I'm not talking about projects 10 years ago, I'm talking about projects now. Of course there's still time and thank God there's time. But if we're going to be at the rate of exploitation of 5.9 today, then it's not realistic that we're going to use it within 2.5 years, and it's going to last from 2007 to 2010, that we're going to use everything else within 2.5 years. But I don't understand why you're complaining about taking money, I mean, there's no malice. These money people don't need to be defended from that money, they need to be taken, they just need to find a way. And these funds that are left of them should be rerouted to municipalities, cities and counties. That's what I was talking about. So, not funding projects at state level, the state has its own resources to finance from, but one part of these funds must go to municipalities, cities and counties, and they are not going because they have nothing to rely on, they have nothing to pay for and therefore do not dare to enter these projects and have nothing to pay for the project. But these people are nothing, and I don't argue with you, and it's not malicious, but just let us use that money.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67427	Thank you. Mr. Bernardic's correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67428	I will correct the incorrect assumption that Croatia is the best at exploiting European funds. That's clearly not true. That's not the way I'd say he'd fool the public. What needs to be done to try to obtain EU funds. You said the rating is that Croatia is using the funds quite solidly. And what will he write you? Well, it's not in their interest to give us the money. It's in our best interest to take it. That's what this is about. Croatia must take the funds. Europe will not clap if we take these funds to any extent, especially if we take them to great lengths.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67429	In fact, the minister said, among the best, not the best Croatia. All right, let's move on. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Mr. Representative and Vice President Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67430	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, the Honorable Madam Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. After 10 years of harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis, we are now entering a new phase of this harmonisation. We are entering a phase where we no longer reach out to say the old content of the European acquis needed to close certain chapters, but we are entering a phase in which Croatia reaches, as well as EU member states, and is harmonising its legislation with what is changing in the European acquis after the vast majority of the EU accession chapters have already been concluded. Therefore, this is a phase to be welcomed, a phase in which the Parliament also has clear merits and a very clear role in achieving such a new phase of harmonisation of Croatian legislation. In these 10 years of harmonisation, this Assembly passed over 500 laws, with which the European acquis is being incorporated into Croatian national legislation, of which more than half of such European laws were passed by this assembly of the Croatian Parliament. In this regard, the Parliament was the place of debate on the European content of the laws and the place which was not in any respect the narrow throat of that harmonisation. What I think the next task is to say so for the Parliament is to ensure better supervision of the implementation of such adopted European laws. The implementation is extremely important and from this SDP address also the call to the President of the Parliament and the Presidency of the Parliament to ensure that the relevant committees of the Croatian Parliament, not only discuss new legislation and propose the adoption of new legislation, but that, in a systematic manner, together with the Government, monitor the implementation of certain important system laws of these Europeans and, of course, others not exclusively related to European adaptations, in order to identify problems, in order to identify better possibilities in the implementation of this legislation. The three fundamental roles of the parliament are in the legislative process. It is the first to plan legislation with a previous impact assessment and a budgetary and regulatory ex ante check. Here are the annual coordination plans that contribute to better legislation planning. The second role, of course, is the classic one to say, by passing legislation, and the third role is this particular impact assessment and implementation assessment. It means an ex post assessment of the effects of the laws adopted and the assessment of the implementation and ways and problems in the implementation of the legislation. In this last area, we have not had a systematic approach so far, especially not to assess the regulatory effects of any previous or subsequent laws. The budgetary impact assessment system has been developed, and in each law, this is precisely what the specific statements indicate how much budgetary resources are needed to implement each law. But the laws are more than budgetary effects, the laws also bring with them regulatory effects, bring together different institutions that participate in their implementation, bring about the need and consideration of changes in other parts of the legislation. Therefore, it is a part that the Parliament needs more than ever to develop. However, it is important to say and it is important to repeat again here and on behalf of the SDP Club, I repeat that Europe does not start in laws, does not start in the acquis of the European Union. Europe begins in the head of each individual, in its understanding and its respect for European values and European behaviour. That is why, whether this European behaviour and these European values are recorded in laws or not, or remain at moral level, it is extremely important that we concentrate, not only on the adoption and implementation of laws but also on the way we behave in accordance with European values. Only in this way can we progress towards membership, and that is the only way we can guarantee the status of an orderly, normal member of the European Union later. Unfortunately, some of the events lately, and I would say even since yesterday, have just shown that there are a lot of problems with European behaviour at political level, on a political stage. Yesterday's statement of some I would say that the ruling party's high leaders in Split are just stepping away from such a way of European thinking, from such a way of respecting European values and such steps we can't unfortunately characterise and we can't just condemn them as chauvinistic, as nationalist, as those who simply, whom we thought belonged to pre-European times, belong to pre-political times. As a result, without condemnation of such concessions and such non-European behaviours, without their condemnation on the political scene, we will certainly not progress towards the closure of the total negotiations with the European Union. The European Union will not tolerate such non-European behaviours and such non-European values for 50 years or 50 years of our membership. It has therefore kept and blocked the activities of individual Member States of the European Union, and it is doing so and will continue to do so. Therefore, we advocate not only the adoption of European legislation but also the adoption and implementation of European behavioural practices and the protection of European values in every political, but also the everyday performance. In the end, I'd just like to say one more thing about this legislative alignment plan. Of course, the SDP club supports him, welcomes him, accepts him, but I'd say only three four things we hold to make sure this plan is better. We believe that for the 4th quarter of this year, it is not good to predict some important legislative activities, simply because of the elections that the Parliament will prevent from working in full force during that quarter. So it would be good to think about a different time dynamic for the adoption of the legislation provided for in the fourth quarter. It is also evident that some laws have already been passed in this House this year, during this session, and not in this plan, were not foreseen in this plan, such as The Law on Peace, the Law on Attorneyship, the Law on Amendments to the General Tax Law. They were all adopted and were not previously planned for adoption in this plan. There are the same laws that have been passed under this plan, they are listed in this plan to be adopted and passed, but in our House they have not been marked as European laws as P.Z.E., and in the plan they are so marked and thus adopted. And perhaps even the last example, the two laws are set out in the terms mentioned in the criteria for closing chapter 23, the Law on the financing of political activities and the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. They are really necessary to close the chapters, but they are not listed in this plan that they should be brought. Therefore, with such a little more detailed study of what stems from the negotiations or from what stems from the general need for harmonisation of legislation, this legislative plan can be even better, but in any case the SDP club will accept this proposal for a harmonisation plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67431	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67432	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Vice President, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. If anything is clearly needed by Croatia, then Croatia needs good news. This government behind me, I don't want to raise tensions, but it really leaves a wasteland and the only good thing that can happen to us this year with a good tourist season that we're sure to have, not because of Egypt or Tunisia, but this season is going to be good, it's going to be good. So, what would be even better is that, eventually, in the 6th month, negotiations with the European Union are concluded and then in the 10th month before the elections as agreed, citizens are offered a referendum on accession to the European Union. It is clear that this referendum in the 10th month, I see Mr. Shex's smile, the government will use for its own campaign, for its own promotion, clearly by public means. On the one hand, we will talk nicely about the cemetery of communism, and on the other hand we will talk about the European Union. On the one hand, they return to the past and look back at Europe on the other. Referendum yes or no? Absolutely means yes. Why is that? Croatia has withdrawn the circus from the European Union over the past 10 years, I don't know that I would like to know from the minister 1 billion euros. Before, Mrs Pusic mentioned an IPA fund of 283m euros. By 1.1 million euros were withdrawn this year. However, we must be honest and also talk about Europe from what it has managed to gain at the premises of the Republic of Croatia. The companies from Europe after the recovery of our banking system, I don't know THT, etc. You've been taken over by large national companies. And in 10 years, when they gave us 1 billion euros, they only took over Croatia's profits or made 10 billion euros here. If we add to this the goods surplus that the world has achieved, we should say Europe in trade with Croatia then we see that there were some $100 billion surpluses there too, and so no one can say that Europe of these Croatian spaces or current policies that has always been more prone to the outside than inside has benefited. Croatia is, again, going to say, 1 billion euros from the European Union, but Europe or these European companies from Croatia, so through the import of goods into this market they exported or we imported about 220 billion dollars. That's how much our import was, the truth. We took out about 10 years of 120 billion dollars of goods. A clean profit from these companies from Europe, meaning in those 10 years with the 10 billion euros in profits achieved in Croatia was still or was still around 30 billion euros. So Europe needs Croatia, too. It is clear that Croatia needs Europe far more than Europe needs us. Because Europe can do without our exports, and we can't survive without their market. What is also the same when I talk about these financial data Europe received from Croatia, so I claim in the last seven, eight or ten years, there was washed over Austrian, Swiss, Liechtenstein banks to brother 1 billion euros from these premises. The second one will say that Europe has through workers, labour and supplies to Croatia or more than 10 billion euros to our citizens. Clearly, it is not all, but in some ways it should simply be observed. So Europe needs Croatia, Croatia needs maybe five times more Europe than they need us. Without Europe, life would have stopped in Croatia within 24 hours. Without Europe, we would go bankrupt. Without Europe now, it could only be grass like sheep to fall. So we need Europe. Europe has earned another way and very well from Croatia, especially after the collapse of our credit rating right next to bankruptcy. Only on interest from Croatia in the last 10 years have they received a brother to his brother 10 billion euros. Mrs. Pusic said that where we have proven ourselves extremely in the withdrawal of money, these are the consulting companies from Europe. Clearly, they were interested in getting their money back through this form. In fact, I'd even dare tell the team, the lunches here are here with us, and they've pulled not 100 percent but far more than 100 percent of the money. But now it's less important. So, to our critics who claim that Europe is not needed for Croatia, there is also the financial data that should be presented to those who claim that without Europe we can. Secondly, I think we really need Europe right now. Without it, this country would sink even deeper than it sinks. But one who's not ready to face the numbers, to put on the table what they get, what we get. It's simply not well-intentioned, and everything else in some way is a second-rate question because these numbers are let's be honest, these figures mean life. As regards the harmonisation of this legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal gains of the European Union for 2011, it is necessary to say, well in 2011, which is logically entered after 2010. We know what marked the 2010 escape of the former prime minister. But of these laws, what it will mark are certainly these financial laws, the Exporting of Goods Act, for example, with a double purpose, the Energy Activity Regulation Act. Then, in the second quarter, there is the Law on Mandatory Relations, Commercial Society, Combating Drug Abuse, Weapons, Consumer Credits, Electronic Communications, Air Transport. In the third quarter and fourth quarter there are general tax laws, then the Public Sector Payments Act, and not to list any further. Croatia can hardly make it into the European Union before 2013. It will be more realistic in 2014 than in 2013. In the euro zone, it means to the euro, and it means life to us, I doubt that we can do it before 2017, 18 and perhaps 20 years. What is also now perhaps current, not so far to the European Union, but to one member of the European Union these are TV signals higher and higher which half the western coast of Istria, but now more and more Dalmatia cannot monitor television programmes. I hear the minister, we read, yesterday addressed the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Italy, Mr Frattini, but I'm afraid from that one decade of correspondence, we're not going to solve anything until the moment we step up our signals, but I'm actually asking the minister to do something about it. Not only does he talk to them, politely, culturally, but he simply strengthens the signals so that they have the problems that we have, and then maybe after that, that problem will be solved. One of the parliamentary deputies mentioned the problem of Croatian shipbuilding. It is clear that the rescue of the shipyard or shipbuilding is one of the vital national interests, it should be mentioned that Croatia has singled out 28 billion kunas for the rehabilitation of shipbuilding from 2000 to today, ending somewhere with the 10th month last year. From 1.1.2000 to 1.1.2004. Eight and a half billion kuna. From 2004 to today, another 20 billion kuna. It is equivalent to 150 to 200 thousand jobs in shipbuilding or with shipbuilding, especially we in Istria are very interested in surviving, but we should say what was done with such money is, I don't even know how to express it, extremely irrationally, because it is possible that one shipyard in Pula did not receive these subsidies from the state budget, and others have somehow divided 28 billion kuna, and now they are in a phase to write off around 12, 13, 14 billion kuna. What makes me far more tangled, which means the announcement of the arrival of the giants, say, in Brodosplit, or Mr. Končar in May 3rd, the Queen, Trogir, etc., and what time will show. We see that we simply did not move away from Mr. Polancec, his measures, his concept today is the concept of government and around TLM, and aluminium, and about shipbuilding, so how then one prison or detention, and others continue to work on these projects. There's obviously something wrong with that. And what if this privatisation just doesn't work out, although I have the impression that I'm being cynical, that in some environments, in Split, they're more occupied by the celebration of the 100-year-old Hajduk, than by the opportunities in their shipyard. Of course Hajduk is not only part of the identity of Dalmatia, but also of Croatia, but also of the smugglers actually means life and that is what I would tell everyone's life in these areas. For the end, it's understandable that we'll support this, this program. Once again, I ask the minister to stand up for that unfortunate signal in Istria. There are cynics that say the government didn't get involved in television signals until the Istrians couldn't monitor television, but when the programme with the monitoring of TV has the Dalmatians. All in all, I think they need to be strengthened by our signals, like if I'm not mistaken, the Swiss, the Austrians, so maybe they'd come through such a form to the green branch. Tomorrow it is likely to be debated about this Law of Conflict of Interest. It is clear that this law needs Croatia, it needs a new law, but not as the government proposes, where it is being trained again, I don't know as if we are guinea pigs in this House. ... Tomorrow we will talk about him, Mr. President, but it is not good for us to adopt a law that no one in Europe knows in such a form, where one quasi body will take over the function of both USKOK and UDBA and the court and inquisition, and I don't know who they all don't, because it simply doesn't work out anywhere in Europe, so when we're talking about Europe, then let's pass on European standards, and not that they simply practice through us their ideal democracy, not on us, not on ourselves, but on ourselves. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67433	We have one correction, Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67434	It is not true that colleagues of Kajin are more interested in Split and are more concerned with the celebration of the 100-year-old Hajduk, rather than with the situation in the smuggling. In fact, the Split public is sensitive to the situation in the Split square, and I don't think there is a man in the town of Split who doesn't give solidarity support to the smugglers, the survival of the Split Square, which doesn't mean that with pride on Sunday at the Croatian National Theatre we won't celebrate the 100-year existence of Hajduk, because it's also one big date for Split, and also for Croatia, and I would say more widely. So we don't rule out each other, we take care of the smuggler, we fight for him, but we don't forget Hajduk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67435	Thank you. Here's a good one... The celebration of Hajduk is you. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Mr. Vice President and Minister Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67436	Here, President, I've come to remind you of Dinamo, because there are those of us who cheer for Dinamo. But I didn't answer for it, but I did answer for a brief reply to Agent Cain, even if it wasn't a subject, regarding the letter I sent to Minister Frattini. So this is not the first thing that Croatia does to remove this problem with entering Italian signal distributors or what is exactly called in Croatian frequencies, we have already taken a whole series of steps, this business in Croatia deals with HACOM, it is an agency that is responsible for monitoring what is happening in that segment of frequencies, and it is registered back several months to crash the signal in Istria by Italian programmes. For his part, HACOM sent dozens of letters to the competent authorities in Italy, and also wrote to the competent international organisation responsible for monitoring the use of frequencies, but so far we have not achieved the results we expected. We believed that at the technical level, at the operational level, we would succeed in obtaining consent from the Italian side and withdrawing from the space, from frequencies that do not belong to them, which belong to Croatia under international conventions and contracts. After we failed to achieve results through HACOM, on several occasions at political level, through embassies, the Croatian Embassy in Italy and the Italian Embassy here, we again asked for the problem to be resolved. When we didn't achieve the desired results, I decided to write a letter to Minister Frattini. You said it was a decadent correspondence. It is a common diplomatic practice where I expressed my dissatisfaction with what is happening and asked Minister Frattini to be involved with his side in order for the competent Italian authorities to do what is necessary, so that Croatian citizens in Croatia can calmly watch Croatian programmes. So because the problem was not solved at the technical level, we decided to ask it here as a political question and that is why the letter was sent to Italian Minister Frattini.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67437	Thank you. We have two corrections. First Mrs. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67438	Mr. Minister, unfortunately, it's not true what you said that you always react because you didn't react when it came to the essence, so it's not surprising that they don't listen to you even now when you react to this technical level where this technical question, of course rightly, you want to raise to a political level. In fact, you haven't reacted back in a few years, and this has already appeared twice, when the then minister, and now recently he is the Secretary of State in the Italian Government, so not anyone, said openly that the ministry has neither sent nor responded in any way at all, and who have chosen to declare that Zadar, Dalmatia and Istria have remained and were Italian historical countries. Wasn't he supposed to react? Such reactions were during the coalition government, but then it was Minister Picula who chose to react and sent a protest note. So that famous mayor in exile who won the prize, or coat of arms, never because of our protest note was handed to him by the president of Italy. So we can gain and preserve our reputation as a small country only by principled policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67439	Correction, Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67440	I'll say first that I support what makes the minister around this unfortunate television signal, but yes, but without us bringing them to the final act they're simply not going to stop disturbing ours, I'd say, distributors. And that's the only way we can turn up our TV signal. It may seem absurd to someone, which is what we're dealing with right now. However, I assure you that for citizens along the western coast of Istria, and more and more looks like Dalmatia, this cannot be a marginal issue until the moment they regularly pay a television subscription.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67441	I'd like to inform you that at 10.45, it's past 10 minutes for the hearing. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67442	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I must react first, although I did not raise the table of correction of the incorrect allegations, to this comment by Mr. Minister, so I think these letters and these protests by Croatia, Croatian representatives, are now also the ministry towards the Italian Ministry like walking on eggs. Quietly, quietly, and in no way can Croatia clearly and loudly articulate its position. And as Mrs. Anticevic said just consistently and courageously express what is bothering her, which she is absolutely right about. So, the TV signal in Istria or as our Istrans say have the opportunity to watch Italian programs now, ours are distracted. So now and in Dalmatia, so we cowardly did at the delay of ZERP. So just cowardly so now our fishermen are moaning for fishing, reduced fishing, or minimal fishing. We did so cowardlylyly as I said in that debate when it was both treasonous and in connection with an agreement with Slovenia that still has its tails and which follows in connection with the arbitration agreement. That's what we do about our shipbuilding because they're so that they don't accidentally compete with some of the others who make ships in Korea and elsewhere, and the large companies they have are also leased Korean shipyards. This is how we deal with the survival of one sugarcane in the Republic of Croatia of the 3th total, so it is Virovitica, Županja and Osijek. Whichever will disappear, which will have to close their plants and workers sent to the Employment Office is hard to say. But we know that there are pressures and we know it from whom, and from which countries even exist in the EU, so that when Croatia has finished negotiations then, the EU's parliaments confirm this agreement on the conditions that they will then set, which they are already pointing to. They're interesting, too, these memos as if they don't exist and some other fresh ones, starting with phone calls and online notes, aren't they? So a few months ago it was announced on television that the Prime Minister sent a letter to ministers regarding savings in ministries. I mean, she sent an interesting letter to the ministers. I don't know what kind of letter if they see each other and hear each other every day. But I guess that's the way you say diplomaticly, Colloquially called it. ... But let's talk about the subject, Mr. President, you've warned me well. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is about the fact that here, the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis for 2011 where the new laws that are to be said fresh and the EU are sorted by quarter this year so that Croatia can adopt these laws as well. It's one thing to adopt laws, and the other to apply laws, well noticed. So, laws to adopt, but also to apply. They say a broad public information campaign should be organised and in connection with EU accession. What will we inform the citizens of? The 26 chapters are closed. Who among the citizens knows what is negotiated in these chapters? So here today we have contradictions about how much funds have been withdrawn between the president of the National Committee, which should really be and I think it's informed and well informed, and here's Mrs. Pejcinovic from the HDZ Club. About how much Croatia has withdrawn from IPA pre-accession funds 1, 2, 3, B, C, etc., SAPARD, etc. What's the difference in that data? And now, according to the proposal of the President of the National Committee, it is proposed that 100m euros which we are not likely to withdraw from these pre-accession funds be redistributed by the European Union's goodwill to cities, municipalities and counties so that they can make projects related to EU structural funds. So those access and funds that already exist in the EU not as pre-accession but as structural funds. When I summed up with healthy mathematics that of the 283 million euros, 64 million or 23% were used, then I see that there are 220m euros left and Mrs. President of the Committee proposes to redistribute 100, where there are 120 others. We're gonna pull something else, come on, God forbid we pull another 120 million euros, they're alive, so we'd be glad to see it. Mr Cain has well noted that the European Union needs Croatia. It is true that it needs Croatia, why does it need Croatia? So you see the perception of the public that really is politeness, legislation and all that the European Union represents in the perception of citizens, is the light in the tunnel after all these corruption affairs, or with corruption, they have picked up the corruption of some, so after all these affairs after crime, thieving, nepotism, clientelism that plagues Croatian society. The exits are seen in some legal property of the European Union, which will then sanction it all when we enter the European Union. Obviously, we are neither Tunisians, nor Egyptians, nor Greeks. So in one lethargy and apathy we wait as we look forward to entering the European Union. To convince citizens that it is good to join the European Union, we are obviously leading or ruling a leading policy as best as possible. The worse in Croatia, the better in a referendum to join the European Union. Is that so? Well, we can best see from the present that's in Croatia today. Family treasure, family silver and gold, bank, T-com has been sold out, the privatisation of what nature and God gave to Croatia, water, forests etc. The total population of the Republic of Croatia has been impoverished, significantly impoverished. How much is Europe or how much have the companies got by doing business in Croatia for the last 10 years. Mr. Maric, an expert on the economy, is not here, so Goran Maric once said that the profit in Croatia in the last 8 years until 2008 was 222 billion kuna or 70 billion euros. That's a terrible number? What is the deficit of trade between Croatia and the EU and between the world, but above all when we talk about the EU. How much money has gone to our citizens and legal entities on interest as high interest as no one in Europe, all these money has been drawn and sucked out of the Republic of Croatia, to get a billion euros in aid, billions of dollars have gone and come out of Croatia and a billion euros have come back. So, Europe has its own interest which is exclusively financial and nothing more. No one loves us because we are the throne of Christianity, the relic, but loves us because we still have the country we have, the most beautiful and most valuable in Europe, that we have the most beautiful sea in the world and that we have resources, which are food, water and energy and forests. That's why they love us, because they need it. And above all, unpolluted, clean, non-GMOs without significant resources that are otherwise invested in the country by pesticides, herbicides, etc., unpolluted land. Here, from the presentation of the President of the National Committee, I called on April 19th to be an intergovernmental conference on the chapter of regional policy, agriculture, so regional policy. Where did we come from with regional policy? When did we discuss this? What's our strategy? And what are we going to close the chapter on regional policy with? I'd like to know what's in that chapter, it's only two and a half months, I'd like to know what Croatia negotiated in that chapter and about agriculture I'd like to know. What shall we say as representatives of our peasants in Slavonia, waiting for them, how shall we know. And it is said that we should go to a wide public campaign towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, let us go, but we need to know what, what has been negotiated, what Croatia has achieved in these chapters. So, I am afraid that the price of negotiations and individual presidencies in the European Union, starting with Slovenia, Sweden, and now Hungary, etc., is very high every 6 months and that every 6 months we have a new partner in the negotiations, I would not scrutinise the partners in the negotiations, nor those in the chairmanship, but everyone has an interest, so yesterday we heard on the news that it is a joint investment in gas sites, oil in the area between the border of Hungary and Croatia. Therefore, in addition to what the EU Presidency said about Croatia, and many say about when Croatia will enter, there is indeed one colourful thing about it, and then as Cain in 2013, 2014 and 2017, so well as we'll be hitting on more with that date of entry, as if that's even more important, or it's more important to prepare and organize quality for EU entry to prepare our citizens, to know what they are waiting for and that they will also adapt to it and that it will be necessary. Because it will be when these rules are applied and what's signed and what they say are closed chapters, there will be really problematic areas above all, I mean agriculture. But today is not about agriculture. We'll talk about it some other time. And here's something else Mrs. Pusic mentioned, it's 6 months, finances, etc. It's still coming. And we adopted almost protectionist law two weeks ago, that Mostar Aluminium, TLM. Isn't that protectionism, at the last minute or last minute, and even that law that is more pedantic than all European laws on lighting bodies and protection against excessive lighting, etc. Did you have those elements to say protectionism? There is. And we sign with the EU and adopt laws on the free market. Clearly, the HDSSB was never a Eurofob, nor is none of us a Eurofob. He's not even a Eurosceptic, but Eurorealists do, so we'll accept this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67443	Thank you. An individual debate. Mrs. Representative Mirela Holly. Here you go. ... Did you have a correction? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. One correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I almost gave up the correction when my colleague Grubisic said after this Europhobic debate that he was not a Eurofob. I would correct a series of incorrect reasons just two, so the one that we're trying to destroy shipbuilding so that we don't have to be competitive with anyone and that we want to close down some of our sugar candies. So, my colleague Grubisic, our shipbuilding has a structural problem for the past 30 years, and therefore the current plans agreed on show that the government wants to restructure the shipyard, preserve jobs and that this important branch of the economy continues to work. As for the sugar box. If it weren't for the EU and if it weren't for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, there would be no Croatian sugarcane, because in that contract, a special regime for exporting sugar is agreed for the EU and in negotiations I can inform you because I am a member of the National Committee we have discussed, even better conditions for Croatian sugar candies we are looking for. So you don't have to be afraid of it. And as for this practice of resuscitating funds that remain, this practice, Mr. Grubisic, has existed for many years. Remember, in your Slavonia, 3 million euros came from the flood damages when they happened. Thus, the government and the people who work in this work certainly have in mind that when there is some money left that there is a repurpose in the areas that need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67445	Thank you very much. Ms. Marilla Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67446	Thank you, Vice President. So I, as our colleague Mimica said, will support this plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis, just like the rest of the SDP. However, in my debate, I would like to warn of some illogicalities, which I spoke about when last week was on the agenda of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act. In fact, we knew by then that the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to comply with the meaning of the 3rd European energy package and we knew that we would have to amend that law in this regard. And that's why I think it's really absurd that we change this law twice in a month. And I think that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament should not actually allow such a thing because it is very unserious and brings a very big confusion among Croatian citizens. I do not know why the amendment of the Law on the electricity market did not mean that during the previous proposal he had already installed those obligations stemming from the 3rd European Energy Package, given that it was very well known that Croatia was obliged to comply with these 4 or 5 laws by 3.3.2011, because this is a condition stemming from the temporary closed chapter 15, so I think it is a lot of creaminess and so something like that the government and Parliament should not allow. What is also controversial about Chapter 15, which is not seen of course from this harmonisation plan but which should also be kept in mind. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia to fulfil the obligations of Chapter 15 that the storage of radioactive low and medium radioactive waste in the Republic of Croatia, which is also part of this chapter, will define all low and medium radioactive waste from the Republic of Croatia as not only produced at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute but also from different technological processes, from medical institutions, to store in a completely inadequate, unsuitable warehouse of radioactive waste that has existed for 30 years at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. Since the proposal for a new Council Directive on the management of fuel and radioactive waste was put in place at the end of last year, which regulates obligations not only concerning waste from nuclear power plants, but from medical sources and research from technological processes, it should be resolved through permanent landfills by 2014. I would like to remind you that in 2003, the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed an agreement together with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia which agreed that the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia would solve the problem of the dump of low and medium radioactive waste from the Nuklearka Krško, but today, in 2011, Croatia has absolutely done nothing about it, so we are now reading that the Republic of Slovenia has decided to solve the issue itself, that it has decided that it will build its disposal of low and medium radioactive waste near Nuklearka Krško in Krško itself. Whether Croatia will also join the Republic of Slovenia in terms of the disposal of its part of the nuclear waste there, which will be incredibly expensive for the Republic of Croatia, we do not know. And unfortunately, from the government's response to my representative's question of these scandalous decisions that radioactive waste from all over Croatia is being stored in a completely inadequate warehouse of radioactive waste in Ruđer Boskovic, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has responded that it will be able to resolve this by 2015, showing complete ignorance or ignoring of certain processes currently taking place in the European Union because this directive will also bind us as well as other members of the European Union. Another illogicality in this harmonisation plan refers to environmental laws. We see that during this year several laws will be amended or even new laws will be passed in the field of environmental protection. This refers specifically to the Law on Waste and to the Law on Air Protection, which go as completely new laws that are in line with the Framework Directives for those areas, but also to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Act. I would like to remind you that we have changed the Waste Act and the Chemical Act almost every year since 2007 until today, which is quite unusual, and every time we have these amendments to the law in the procedure, we are told that these amendments to Croatian laws are in line with European Union directives, i.e. the European acquis, which simply does not stand because European directives covering the problem of waste and chemicals do not change as often as we change our laws. I would like to say here that any amendments to the law cause major problems in the economy and units of local self-government and testify either to the inability of the ruling administration or to something even worse, especially when it has in mind all affairs and doubts about the corrupt actions in the fund precisely related to waste management procedures, waste recovery or waste disposal. So I think that these coordination plans should also include a little more seriousness and responsibility because it is definitely not for the benefit of the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens as often as possible to change legal solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67447	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67448	Thank you very much. We coordinate with Europe, we coordinate with legislation, legislation, and that's good. The problem is that in this alignment, some cowardly eggs like this are often planted. This Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which is here today again proposed by the Government to extend the agenda in its second reading. The law is not listed in this harmonisation plan at all, nor is it a requirement for Europe to amend this law. He doesn't even have the P.Z.E. mark, and he can't have it because that law is anti-European and anti-democratic. There's no law like that in Europe. That the ruling party, in the evening of its departure from power, is trying to control the opposition through a law like this, it is completely anti-European and I do not know what Europe will say when it hears such laws are passed in Croatia. Europe is also not just laws, Europe is law enforcement, Europe is also a European behaviour. On behalf of the SDP club, a colleague of Mimica said something, but I think that thing should be said both more clearly and openly. You know, Europe has one of its standards of respecting the rights of minorities, national minorities, political minorities and Europe will certainly not be so silent that a prominent HDZ member yesterday in Split has a chauvinistic statement that offends his colleague Jovanovic for his nationality. You know, when it happened in Austria, Heather Austria was put into isolation. Europe can't stand it. And we can coordinate legislation as much as we want, but as long as it turns out like this in Croatia, and they are not convicted, the chauvinist fools are everywhere and always, and they will always turn out, but when a prominent member of the ruling party does so and when it goes without judgment, it is not European behaviour. Then we're not Europeans. And I'm afraid Europe won't see us for 50 years if this behaviour doesn't change in Croatia. Is European behaviour to re-emphasise a member of Parliament, our fellow respected Hebrang requests political...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67449	Dude, this isn't a topic. My colleague, this is not a topic, not the behavior of any party member, any party. The theme is the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union and please choose to stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67450	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, and the other speakers have so far spoken of the practice of European or non-European behaviour, I don't know why you forbid it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67451	The other speakers did not speak, but only this was declared in a short part of their presentation by Mr. Mimica's representative on behalf of the SDP club. That's all it was. And it should not also be presented because the topic is very precise and clear. Do not enter now discussions concerning the behaviour or actions or speeches of individual representatives or individual politicians outside this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67452	I am talking about European behaviour and I will continue to talk about European behaviour and non-European behaviour. In Europe, I think it would be completely unimaginable for any member of parliament to request a police investigation, and for the interior minister to announce the investigation in that same parliament and for the investigation to begin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67453	My friend, I'm warning you again. Don't speak off topic, completely off topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67454	Well, Vice President, do you think this is also European? What do you want me to do? You want to shut me up, give me a warning, kick me out of Parliament, forbid me political action.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67455	I warn you to speak beyond theme. I am obliged to warn every MP from the chair of the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure that he must stick to the topic. If he doesn't stick to the subject, then he needs the chairman to take away his word. You're asking me to break the Rules of Procedure? You're not looking for safety. So you can't. I won't let you break the Rules of Procedure. Please stick to the Rules of Procedure, so choose to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67456	I stick to the Rules of Procedure and the subject and I'll keep going. So, it's quite contrary to any European practice, it's quite contrary to any European legislation, and we tend, we all want to go to this Europe, we're all in a hurry there, it's totally unacceptable that a colleague of Hebrang through these...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67457	Thank you very much. I warned you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As a result of the second call, the Rules of Procedure, when the speaker does not hold the agenda theme, the President will take away his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67458	And why do you show such anxiety in front of my step-by-steps?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67459	I'm taking your word. I take away your word in accordance with Article 210(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. Yeah. Representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67460	Yes, Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the SDP Club for consulting the club on a further way to participate in this debate, I'm asking for a recess for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67461	I'd love to. Ten minutes. Here you go. After the break, we'll continue the session. Stanku was sought by the SDP representative's club, Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67463	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP Club asked for a break after I don't know which time in this assembly the chairman of Mr. Shakespeare took the floor from a member of the SDP club. In this case, my colleague Stazic, when talking about the accession of the European Union and the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the European Union, did not really speak anything or offensive, nor did he call anyone in any kind of abusive word. He was talking here about some facts. He was talking about the fact that some things were said by people in HDZ yesterday at a press conference. He was talking about the fact that we are harmonising legislation with the European Union, but that one part of people does not coordinate their behaviour with the European Union, and that I do not know by which times the members of the SDP and here also the representative who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club are taking the floor, it certainly does not belong to democratic standards, neither the European Union nor the Republic of Croatia. Parliament is the place, the name tells it, the place where it is spoken. And the only thing that we have as assembly representatives is speech, speech, word, we don't have another one, and then we have the only mechanism and the only tool that we have in politics every little bit here is taken away, because someone doesn't like what we're saying. When it comes to insulting speech, I agree, it should be stopped, but here it wasn't. My colleague Stazić didn't insult anyone, and he only talked about the facts. We will continue to fight for freedom of speech in Parliament, for the possibility that every representative will deliver his opinion, even when some of us disagree with it, and that is the purpose of Parliament. What we have been doing lately to make it impossible for us to speak here is not the purpose of Parliament, it is the meaning of some other states, and some other systems. Therefore, it would be good for all of us to be here together, and primarily those who chair the session refrain from making it impossible for us in our debates, and in bringing our views and opinions, because really if this continues, then the question is whether the laws are brought only on paper, and whether the time has finally come for some individuals to start acting in European style, in democratic style, which is that they know how to hear and criticize, to know things and at their expense, to hear when we tell them that they were wrong, and they were wrong, because what was said at the press conference yesterday has not been heard long ago in political space in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67464	Thank you very much. The topic of the agenda is harmonisation, a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2011. The topic of the agenda is not the behaviour of HDZ members at press conferences, or outside the assembly. That's not the subject of the agenda. And because of what STazic wanted to talk about the press conference, which was one member of the HDZ at the press conference in Split, he wanted to talk about what Hebrang was saying about the non-European behaviour of HDZ members, so the non-European behaviour of HDZ members is not the subject of this agenda and this agenda item. So I was obliged, because this Rules of Procedure is the Constitution for the Croatian Parliament, a speaker who does not stick to the topic of the agenda, and I have, on several occasions, also warned my fellow Stazic to stick to the topic of the agenda. When he did not stick to the subject of the agenda, and when he obviously wanted me to agree that the Rules of Procedure should be broken, I told him in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the warning, and about this extent, it is executive and it is not debated. Therefore, I do not endanger your freedom or any freedom or right to speak to representatives in the Croatian Parliament, however, but this freedom is regulated by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It's not unlimited freedom. It is limited so much that it is limited to discuss the subject and talk about the subject which is now in the assembly according to the established agenda. Otherwise it would mean a complete deviation from the Rules of Procedure, completely if in the assembly, this wasn't Hyde Park Corner to be put on the bench and to talk about whatever it is you want to talk about. That's why we have the agenda, which is why we have agenda themes. So I protect the Rules of Procedure, protect the MPs, and I will always protect them. And if some president has some different criteria and rules it's his business, but I'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. Now we have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67465	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67466	Mr. Vice President, allow me. I've been in touch, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67467	I didn't give you my word. You can answer it. I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67468	Mr. Vice President, you saw my hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67469	I'll give you my word. Please, I'm in charge of the session. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67470	You're the only one who leads and don't forget.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67471	How could I forget you? Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67472	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will correct the incorrect quote by my colleagues, Stazic, when he said the ruling party, referring to HDZ, proposed and passed some laws on the eve of leaving the government. It also costs the adoption of legislation, harmonising Croatian legislation with the EU, and also the imagination, has some wishes as well as in 2007 before the parliamentary elections on the departure of HDZ from power. That's what your colleague and some of your members wanted. These other members are aware that this will not happen. And in 2007... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67473	Please, peace! This is a correction to the incorrect allegations of a speech by MP Stazic, who spoke of the law being passed. What law? A law to prevent conflicts of interest that has nothing to do with this subject. Correction. ... Peace, please. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67474	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's just correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Stazic. Let him continue to fantasize about the departure of HDZ from power, and the Croatian people will make a decision on whether counterpart Stazic and his like will lead the Croatian state or whether it will be further HDZ with his coalition partners. Thank you. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67475	My colleagues and colleagues, please! You've just claimed that freedom of speech is being threatened, and now that the representative is speaking, you're disturbing him to speak. It won't be this, I repeat myself while I'm president and as long as I chair this won't be Hyde Park Corner while I preside. Representative Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67476	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting a completely incorrect, according to my conviction, quote of my fellow Stazic, who is actually accusing Croatia of violating national rights of national minorities and disobeying certain standards in this segment, and based on the blatant insult of one person to another. Therefore, the accusation that Croatia does not meet European requirements and European standards in the protection of national minorities on the grounds that one person offended another is completely wrong and I would say quite nationally unconscious and actually harmful. Imagine all that Croatia has, what Croatia does in the protection of human rights in general and the protection of national rights of national minorities certainly falls within the very top of Europe. And based on one of these findings to accuse Croatia of disrespecting it all is actually national irresponsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67477	And Mr. Representative Kulusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67478	A colleague, Stazic, says HDZ is passing laws before losing the election, that is, in the evening of the lost elections. Which is not true. Apparently, there was a lot of anxiety in the SDP ranks from this rhetoric. However, when we talk about European behaviour then European behaviour, if European behaviour is bathing on Brijuni for 7 kunas of individual SDP members, then it is indeed a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67479	Mr. Representative Dinko Buric on behalf of the HDSSB club. Here you go. But a colleague of what, tell me? First, wait a minute. I gave you, you asked me to give you my word. I gave you my word. And tell me what this is about. You can't just come to a pay phone like that. You need to tell me what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67480	Dear Mr. Vice President, I came calmly at the same time that the distinguished representative Opačić asked for a break, and so did I. For the same reason that you are violating and disabling in the conduct of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. I must point out
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67481	A colleague of Buric,
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67482	That we don't come here, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67483	A colleague Buric, a colleague of Buric's, can't talk and talk, come easily.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67484	I can, I can.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67485	You raised your hand, I gave you my word and
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67486	The moment the break was requested and I asked for a break to explain to you why I was looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67487	So you want to explain now why you're looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67488	In very short, in very few sentences. It won't be 15 minutes. We'll leave that next time. So, Mr. Vice President, you must be aware that none of us, at least not those who do not belong to the ruling party, are coming to the Croatian Parliament to raise travel expenses rather than to speak, as the distinguished representative Opačić said, because this is also our duty and obligation, but to talk about everything that the citizens of Croatia want to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67489	Would you like to explain your reasons for the club break? Explain why you're looking for a club break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67490	I'm explaining, just don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67491	I'm not nervous, I'm warning you to explain the reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67492	Lately, Mr. Vice President, it's very easy for you to take notice and take away words, there are calls to the guards, and you're acting more and more like Lucky Luke.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67493	I'm warning you one last time, I'll take your word for it. Explain the reasons for asking for a break on behalf of your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67494	Well, here's your worrying level of nervousness lately, not now as a representative, but as a doctor, it leads to the conclusion that I'm gonna give you a psychiatric advice, and given the high level of compliance, I'm recommending a psychiatrist to you. -Stanimirovich.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67495	I take your word. Do you give a warning or not? No, I don't. The warning may be given to a person who has similar qualities to be received in the consciousness of the one to whom it applies. I won't go on. Here, Mr. Buric, you asked for a break on behalf of the club, you explained it to all the reasons, here I am now calling for you to speak on behalf of the club, if you want to speak on behalf of your club. What? Not about the agenda point, you'll talk about the agenda point at the end, the 5-minute debate is at the end. What? When the time comes, according to the Rules of Procedure, when the time comes. I would very much like to give you a chance but you will get it when a 5-minute debate comes to present yourself in the best light to the entire Croatian public, I will give it to you, I would certainly not miss such a chance to show up again in a bright light. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, with an associate, colleague and colleague. Therefore, we have before us a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2011 and that plan should absolutely be supported as an integral part of the Government of Croatia's programme for the acquisition and implementation of the legal property of the European Union for 2011 and, to that end, to highlight its two basic characteristics. The first of these characteristics that the Republic of Croatia has fulfilled almost all the obligations resulting from the accession process to the European Union, i.e. in terms of harmonisation of legislation, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent all necessary legislative proposals to the Croatian Parliament, and the Croatian Parliament has accepted them. We've had opportunities to hear this information, it's over 500 laws, over 500 legal projects. The second feature of this proposal for a coordination plan that is ahead of us, therefore, is that it is the final process in terms of the adoption of these 40 laws, the final process which takes over the new acquis of the European Union and in fact fulfils all the assumptions in this sense that the Republic of Croatia successfully wraps up negotiations and signs the pre-accession agreement. I think it was understated what business it was and how much effort and time it really took to bring this job to an end successfully, and in that sense let me present a few relevant figures or data, and so far, something has been said about them. As far as the negotiation process itself is concerned, it should be pointed out that out of the 35th chapter, we see the total 34th in the argument that we can consider all 35 of which the negotiations in chapter 28 are provisionally closed. In total, 6 chapters were opened in 2010, and 11 chapters were temporarily closed, bringing the Republic of Croatia into the final phase of the negotiations. The remaining 7 chapters should be closed in the next time period, thus meeting all the preconditions or assumptions for the conclusion of pre-accession negotiations. I'm not going to list those legal projects that are still ahead of us, and that's for sure when we get them all round up this story. However, I would point out two legislative projects that will be in the Assembly procedure this week and there is no reason not to discuss them in the Croatian Parliament and not bring them in. Therefore, it is a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the Law on the financing of political parties and electoral promotion, certainly two very important laws, which, when they are passed, will certainly result in the fact that it is Chapter 23 of the judiciary and human rights and, in this normative, legislative sense, can be closed and that all the objections we have in this sense had to be avoided so that this normative activity would now be rounded up and, as a country which has fulfilled and in that sense, everything that was meant to be fulfilled in order to be able to sign the pre-accession agreement itself without any objection. And then it ends the negotiations. Finally, I think what is important to emphasise when it comes to the conclusion of legislation or the implementation of European legislation in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, is that the acquis of the European Union is constantly developing and Croatia will also be obliged as a Member State to comply with its national rules with the acquis of the EU. So, we are discussing and discussing a process that will never be fully what is said to be adopted, it is one area that will always be, even when Croatia becomes a permanent member of the EU subject to harmonisation, or those institutes that are accepted as such at EU level will necessarily need to be harmonised, when, of course, needs are shown in national legislation, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, I think it is important to stress that this and this approach makes it clear that Croatia is ready to operate as a Member State at the moment and enables its citizens to apply all the rights that come out or come out of the legal gain of the EU and apply to EU citizens. So, once again, this proposal for a coordination plan should absolutely be supported. It's a big job done. This final part is ahead of us, and I think that in a very short period of time, the full-time legislation of the Republic of Croatia will be in line with the legal acquis of the EU, and in this way the big job that was ahead of the Croatian Parliament is actually completed and all the preconditions have been met to conclude the negotiations and sign the pre-accession contract in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67498	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67499	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is when we are discussing this package of laws that will adapt and comply with European legislation this year, then it must actually be said that it is a list of necessary laws that have already been amended and a list that, as so far as the practice of harmonisation so far, works in a single way, without a big public debate, I would say, I would not say under great secrecy but insufficiently covered by the professional public and by citizens with frequent changes and with a large space for manipulation. She also said something about her colleagues, Mirela Holy, when she mentioned amendments and additions to the Waste and Chemicals Act, which had already been amended several times in this House, and always with the same explanation, in line with European legislation. Of course, of course, European laws change but not in a way that changes 4 times in 4 years, for example. The Insurance Act, explaining that it is in line with European legislation. And that's the space we rightly suspect, and that's the space that opens up a variety of possibilities for broad interpretations, so I would also say about manipulation, often some things are pushed into these European laws that have nothing to do with the relationship in European legislation, just enough to go through in a package of European laws. But what is much more important when it comes to European laws is the application of European laws and respecting EU good practice recommendations, guidelines that would not have left 90,000 people out of work in the last year and a half. As soon as the global and European financial crisis took place, the EU issued an economic recovery plan with two key components. As a conscious opposition, we have proposed our plan for the recovery of the Croatian economy. But for a year and a half, the crisis was waiting to be recognized at all. And that's why we now have a situation where 90,000 people have lost their jobs, that internal liquidity or non-payment levels have reached 35 billion kuna levels and that our entrepreneurs, or our economy, are at a daily business risk of regular business. Because if you can't pay your regular claims, someone recently stated, our entrepreneurs are not risk-oriented, so who will be risk-oriented when their regular business is on their own risk, because they can't collect their liabilities, they don't know if they'll pay their workers in 1.1. This is what puts a major questionnaire on how European regulations apply and how positive EU recommendations apply. The EU said that, to reduce VAT, you can reduce VAT to food, to basic energy. Did we do that? We didn't. Did we suggest? That's right. She said you had to cut the payment deadlines from 60 to 30 days. Well, we've had payment deadlines so high that for two years they've been incontinently generating an indifference that's now at 35 billion. Internal non-payments. Business risks, job losses, the number of insolvents in these companies is about 90 grand. While we are talking about this today, now 90,000 people in Croatia are directly threatened and does not know if they will receive next month's salary, does not know whether they will be able to afford their family bread next month. And that is the main problem when it comes to respecting the EU's positive recommendations and the recovery of the European economy. We didn't accept that. It is also said that European companies that have their own representations earn money here. Well, of course they make money if the free European market tolerates it, allows and is normal. Of course, the EU is our strategic interest. Why? Because we're simply too small to be out of the circle in which I would say the existence of our future business as a country just better. We must enter that circle. But the EU protects its interests through its legislation. They will neither recover our economy nor solve the accumulated problems so as not to list inequitableness, from unemployment. So that's the job we have to do ourselves. The European Union foresees, in the envelope, a certain amount of funds from pre-accession funds, later from structural funds that can be used. That's what you're supposed to do, that's what you can take but you don't have to. That they'd be very sad if we didn't take their money? Well, he won't. Well, that's why they wrote a letter saying we're a solid asset. But with the right of what my colleagues and colleagues have said before me, if the implementation of the IPA programme is 5.9% of pre-accession aid. Whatever our guarantee is, in the next year and a half, we'll get to the level of the full funds if we haven't been able in the last two, three years. That's the big problem. Well, normally from the plane, you can tell we won't. With a simple eye. Now, what is lacking in Croatia is information about what Europe will bring us good, and in this process are negotiators who must tell the public, citizens, entrepreneurs, economies, people in shipbuilding, farmers, what we have chosen for us, for Croatian citizens, what you have voted for Croatia. Did we just sign the laws, stamp and say another European law that went into the process and will apply more or less. What you have fought for farmers, what you have fought for shipbuilding, what you have voted for for our entrepreneurs, what you have voted for for the citizens, what you have chosen from the European Union in this negotiating process. It's a basic story. We have the OIB yes, the legal provision was to bring the tax number by a unique let's say it in a uniform way that applies throughout the European Union, okay, 2007. But what was done with this OIB, whether it was listed property, whether it was used to reduce unnecessary social transfers burdening Croatia's state and state budget. Someone who has 100 million kuna in real estate, who is unemployed is still unemployed and doesn't write it anywhere and he still gets social transfers from the state budget. On the other hand, people whose existence depends on a church of 1500 or 2000 kuna per month, pensioners, cannot feed their families, themselves and that is what is a key problem in the process. Which brings us an OIB if nothing is applied. Is there enough recommendation on payment deadlines, so they're not because the liquidity wouldn't build up to 35 billion kuna, there wouldn't be so many internal defaults. Two years doesn't solve this problem. And now under the last, six years, this process, six years of a long game. We came to an end and de facto in this year's conclusion negotiations will be the only success of the Croatian government, de facto alone because I do not see what could be another success given the galloping level of unemployment and given the endangered entrepreneurs, people working in their companies, given the lower standard of citizens, given all the circumstances that led to this situation. So it's going to be de facto the government's only success this year. And now you've got a basket in front of you and there's no one here. It's a bun, it's a hammer. It's zicer, it's a knock, it's a counter, it's a slow double step, and it's a knock. We can't fuck this up. If we fuck this up, end negotiations in June, so we have nothing, we don't have any baskets. We can't fuck this up. Guys, I'm asking you to be serious so we don't just miss this zicera. And one more thing. Dear Minister, there was speculation and talk in the media and I tried to inform but here it looks like none of it. We have an arbitration dispute to be decided by the European Commission arbitration court on the border with Slovenia, the five-member commission. Slovenia has appointed its representative, member, Croatia has not yet. Is it possible that the question of our own borders does not matter to us? Or correct me if I'm wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67500	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I've announced this morning that we're going to make an appointment at 12 o'clock. I'd ask the clubs to secure the quorum so we can actually make such a single decision, so I'm asking you another minute to see it. Please especially clubs who are not present here to organize so that we can complete that agenda. As you know, this one law that we need to pass by the 11th of this month means we have to put it on the agenda so we can discuss it and bring it in Friday, so please do everything you can to secure the quorum for the next few minutes. Secondly, we have one replica of the presentation of Agent Davor Bernardic. Mr. Zdenko Franic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67501	Dear fellow Bernardic, in your presentation you spoke about the way European laws are passed and often that some things that are not European and are not urgent are really involved in these laws. We've brought a huge number of laws here with delayed action and basically no one knows their relationship, whether they're killing each other or not. Moreover, some of these laws reflect all incompetence, inadequacy, the futility of the negotiators, because they allegedly required us to install in Europe an explicit reference to guidelines or the European Union directive, which is not in the spirit of the adoption of the European acquis, because we must introduce and implement the spirit of European guidelines in our legislation. The example is one of the perhaps wider public-obsessed law on topology of printed tiles where explicits have been introduced inside even though these guidelines are essentially changing in a few months so that we will have to change what is actually ineffective and it is not wise to waste time on our own and resources to solve something that we could have already solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67502	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67503	Well, as a physicist, I'm sure you understand and perceive that wide picture. ... /The noise in the hall./... So you as a physicist certainly understand that broad picture. So, what's this about, what's this about? You have the laws.....the noise in the hall.... Please give me time. So you have laws that detail certain things in Croatia. It's just like that. It's part of our legacy, and part of us are pushing it in. And then you often don't know what the law is to whose authority. Often this is not known, and then great legal interpretations are needed, unlike the northern system of legislation where other things are done, the detailing of the work itself is passed by law. And we're in this situation right now, here I was just at this conference where a man from the Ministry of Economy came to not name a man now and he said look, everything that's written in the law and all the circumstances that are provided for here we can help you. But the ones they don't write, and the ones most often are the ones we can't help you with. And that's a big problem in general with the legislative framework. You can react to something you need to react to within 15 or a month according to the recommendations, directives, ultimately in line with the market in the European Union you can only react by amending the law after a few or six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67504	Thank you. I ask MPs and MPs to enter the assembly so they can complete the agenda. Meanwhile, on behalf of the government, Mr. Vice-President and Foreign Minister Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67505	I thank you, Mr. President. Here I am sorry that my colleague Bernardic is going, because I'd like to talk to you, I'm glad to. We have heard another exhibition in familiar style, the famous spirit of many great words, and very little content, lots of big words and very few works. You mentioned funds. The city of Zagreb is the worst in the use of pre-accession funds, and you have been in power for ten years in the city of Zagreb, and I think it is important to tell both parliamentarians and the Croatian public that you have not used any of the pre-accession funds. It's not the government's fault, it's nobody's fault, you're guilty because you're not capable. And don't call us because I'm going to get you the data on the use of funds at the state level now because it's important, because you heard today, even though it's not the subject that funds are being used badly. So those funds that the deadline went out to, so those used so far have been used in the following percentages. CARDS 2003. 97.68%. CARDS 2004. 94.61%. PHARE 2005 87.38%. PHARE 2006. 85.22%. ISPA 94.91%. SAPARD 61.70%. These funds, spoken of by MP Pusic, will be used for another two and a half years. So it's not right today to say that something 5% was used, and for another two and a half years we have time to use it. So I'm asking that we don't fool the local public, the locals, so we don't work. We used funds. Here you heard it in percentages above 80 and 90%. We will also use IPA and all other funds that we can use by the end of 2012 or even until 2013. Unlike the city of Zagreb who did not take advantage of anything. As far as the arbitration agreement is concerned, if you read the newspaper, if only to regularly inform yourself what you should as a parliamentary representative know that the Croatian Government has chosen Professor for its representative who will represent the Croatian team before the arbitration agreement. Maja Sersic and it happened months ago before the Slovenian side did. So now you are using the opportunity as a parliamentary representative to re-falsify the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67506	We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67507	I'd like to correct a few incorrect allegations. First, she chose a representative but not a member. That's what you sent her. So first you have to distinguish between two of those categories. That's what you as a minister should do. Second, as far as the city of Zagreb is concerned, that the city of Zagreb is not the best at using European projects, it could not even take part of the funds. It's not good. But that's the difference. Because I will tell you the truth and I am not afraid to repeat it, but do not deceive the public that Croatia is best at using European funds when it is not. I'm not ashamed to say. I am not ashamed to say that the city of Zagreb is not the best. I'm not ashamed, so you don't have to be ashamed to say that Croatia is not the best. Why are you ashamed? It's simply incorrect. That's what this is about. You're telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67508	I have already pointed out once that the minister, or vice-president of the government, did not say that Croatia is the best at using funds but among the best, so I am correcting it the second time. In fact, I'm not correcting, but I'm referring to exactly what the minister said. The second one has Mrs. Vesna Pusic's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67509	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect and incorrect, Mr. Minister, to say here that I deceive the public when I speak absolutely accurate data. You're reporting data from a time when you personally had nothing to do with the government. Among other things, these are data for projects that were seven, eight, six, five years ago. These projects for which they are responsible and which today are current for the period and these funds are for the period from 2007 to 2009 plus three. If I know how to count, we don't have two and a half years left, we have years and ten months. If we used 5.9% in one area from 2007 to February 2011, I am not saying we can't, but it's not very likely that if we used 5.9% of the total funds from 2007 to 2011 that the remaining 94.1% will be used in the next year and 10 months. I'm warning you because it's in everyone's best interest to take advantage of these assets, not to make nice looks, and inside we have bad results. This can be fixed. It can be fixed. Some resources can be used differently. Let's do it, not outsmart ourselves about whether the data that stands here is correct or not accurate. Well, of course they're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67510	Ladies and gentlemen, this item of the agenda is called the draft plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2011. That's the agenda point. I know that in any way, in any way, one can talk about anything, but here the debate has spread so that there have also been polemics unnecessary because of what has come out of the agenda. The agenda is like this, the kind of agenda point it is. And I'm going to give Mr. Dinko Buric a correction, and then the minister wants to explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67511	Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim when he mentioned the usability of the funds, primarily the SAPhard Fund. It is not accurate that the usability of SAPHARD is over 60%, because there were around 25m euros in the fund, or 182 and a half million kuna, and a little more than 93m kuna was used for agricultural projects, Mr. Minister. The implementation of the SAPHARD programme is complete, and the money left in that fund cannot be used anymore. Even at the Ministry of Agriculture, they confirmed that SAPHARD was used about 50%, and I will quote you a statement from a recent spokesman for the ministry, Mr Mladen Pavic, when he told us that we were little comfort that we are something better than most of the countries that entered the European Union before us, but it is a pity that half the money remained unused.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67512	Thank you. It was a correction. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67513	Thank you very much. I mean, we can pollute here now, but there are numbers. Mr Buric of SAPHARD was indeed 25 million kuna available, it was used, 15 million 425,682 kuna was agreed. So it's 61.70%. Whether you want to accept it or not, these are numbers. If you don't believe the figures made by the institutions of the Croatian state, then that's your problem. Also, Mrs. Pusic, these are the figures that are what you say about the government or not, which is less important, because the HDZ government is reminding you in 2004, this all happened during HDZ, so you can't say it wasn't done, and also in the IPA we're going to have a high level of realization, in some of the IPA programs, for example. IPA1 in 2007, usability is 67.59%. And normally a lot of these documents and projects are being done, and it's normal that in recent years, in recent months, that percentage is going to rise drastically. That's what happened with all the other programs, and that's what's gonna happen with this. And as for what Mr Bernardic said, I am not misleading anyone, I am not afraid to tell the truth unlike you, because if you were honest then you would say that Zagreb did not take advantage of anything. And I repeat, Zagreb has not taken advantage of any of the pre-accession funds due to its incompetent SDP authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67514	Correction, Mr. Representative Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67515	They say it's a shame to be a minister, always a representative has the last word. It's a big penalty, if it's playing on the pens. First of all, Zagreb is not the worst, but it is not the best, 40 projects were done by the City of Zagreb, but at this point it does not matter. The way we talk about it is important. You're here talking cheerleading, propaganda, trying to make things look like they're not. I ask you, in the interest of Croatian citizens, and before the Croatian public, in the interest of all parties whose common goal is to join the European Union, that Croatian citizens have some of it, to use the European Union funds that they do not give us, which they have put here and that we can do the most normal... You have responsibility for the entire Croatian foreign policy and for this... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67516	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67517	It's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67518	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, despite several of my requests for clubs to say so, to be sure to extend, or supplement the agenda, I see that there is only one representative of the SDP here. ... I understand the fact that I don't want to comment on anything, except that we have to pass one law on Friday, so that we can, and Mrs Pusic said that we should bring it by Friday, and I was talking about it, so I don't know how we're going to get it if we can't complete the agenda. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's something that's a particular thing. It's no abstraction, nor are we talking abstractive topics. We're talking about not being able to supplement the agenda so that we can apply one law because of the need to respect the procedure as much as possible, so we'll continue to work, with the hope that we will succeed in having a quorum and supplementing the agenda, as we planned. So now it's Mr. Agent Ante Kotromanović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67519	Sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67520	... Then we'll go on again. Here you go. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67521	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs. I won't talk much about these technical things, I'm just interested in this presentation by the foreign minister said a sentence that intrigued me very much... And upset. [[You don't understand.]] You told Mr. Minister that Croatia would continue to prosecute war crimes. Now I'm interested in what war crimes? Who? Whether it is for Croatian soldiers, whether it is a dictatorship of the European Union, I would ask you to dedicate a few words to it, because you said it, I didn't want to replicate anything special or correct because I think I want to have a normal communication with you, but simply if you can give a few more information, given the state of these days that we have around Purda, etc., it is also a very interesting topic, a top topic, especially for us defenders, and please just explain to me what you mean, whether these are Croatian defenders, is it some other people. And if you have time and opportunity, here I would just ask you to brief on that a few words... Nothing more. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67522	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67523	Okay, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Of course, as far as the proposal for harmonisation is concerned that I am personally supporting it again, I just want to repeat what my colleague Mimica said that the job listed for the 4th quarter of this year is due to the issue, meaning because of the election of parliamentary ones in Croatia, that this job is done earlier. Unless, of course, you in the HDZ don't have any other plans and perhaps because of the EU, signing a contract to try to push the elections in 2012. But this point, when we talk about laws, opens the issue of the EU in Croatia, that is, our relationship to the communication strategy, our relationship to reform means that we are more successful and better members of the EU and I want to say something about it briefly, especially in light of this latest research that has shown that support for EU membership is falling. And I will remind you all, at least all of us who are here in the Alliance for Europe and who support the process of Croatia's EU accession, that the fall in support is also our defeat. So, we who are in the alliance for Europe, and these are almost all parliamentary parties in the Republic of Croatia. So these are, in my personal opinion, the last moments. Now go to a very serious, very wide communication campaign that does not just mean government, government institutions. It is necessary to include the academic community, the civil sector and, for God's sake, the dear and parliamentary representatives if necessary. Everyone who can start communicating with Europe now, not when we sign an access contract, when we're going to be left with really, really little time. Look, this proposal here if we could bring citizens now, to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, this proposal to coordinate what they would understand from that? We can talk about it in code then because often communication comes down in code. So this document is code. And even when we talk about citizen negotiations, it's the same thing, let's be realistic, vague things. We're talking about Chapter 15 today, 22, 23, we're talking about Benchmarks, actually communicating chapters and the state of negotiations is the most ungrateful thing. Because on the one hand you want to tell the citizens we want to finish negotiations, but on the other hand, because of the nature of the negotiations you can't talk about content. So it's a serious problem that needs to be changed urgently in communication. Furthermore, what is not at all talked about, but what needs to be talked about are actually European policy strategies. As a future EU member, we are taking it upon ourselves to achieve the objectives of certain European policies. Are we talking about the EU's 20/20 strategy, whether we're talking about social Europe as a policy, whether we're talking about cultural policy, education policy, this IT 20/20 whatever. And a key cohesion policy almost nothing is written or talked about in Croatia. Instead, we have communication that is either half information or even worse information derived from the context. I'm going to give you a few examples now that's been going through the media. We cannot communicate with Europe and it will come to us 3.5 billion euros. That's not 3.5 billion euros, bianko on the table. Well, you know exactly what kind of work to be done to make use of that money. She doesn't give us anything, she gives us a chance to take us. And that's one big job that we need to prepare ourselves for, and we haven't met all the preconditions yet. We cannot speak at the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about the components of the IPA that it is a tiny straw of salvation for Croatia. It's not the IPA. Especially in financial terms. With some grand scheme, cross-border cooperation is a significant part of this money actually going back through consultants to Europe. We are left with social capital and stronger capacity to exploit and take as much as possible in the future. So IPA is not a straw of salvation. So, like that, it's one really bad, bad communication boredom. What the Parliament can do and what I expect the same of Parliamentarians to do when we talk about coordination and negotiations to squeeze and seek reform in systems as soon as possible. In the last five years, the ministries, which agencies, which institutes have published thousands and thousands of pages of texts funded by, say, European money on the needs of reform in individual sectors. And to know today, what colleague Pusic has only said briefly about the judiciary, and we still have agriculture, we still have a question of complete state incentives. We have to work very well on the incentives and subsidies. And that key policy, which is cohesion policy, is almost unspeakable. You know what cohesion goals are, you know what instruments they are. And Croatia is currently short of money, which is for technical pre-financing, which is for funding, and there are not enough personnel. We can talk, so I am sincerely saddened by this whole debate today about EU funds. Well, we should be honest with the IPA, maybe we're getting along, and with 10 times the money at this point, there's no theoretical chance. We're short on money, we're short on personnel. So, according to Brussels, we need 5 to 7 times more personnel for European jobs in the state administration. Not to mention the local administration. Do you think the EU will give future funding to NUTS 3 levels? We still have NUTS 2 levels not enough personnel equipment to start doing our job. So this is something to discuss because look at colleagues and colleagues today what we bring, as one colleague said that Croatia can already function. No, with the work we are doing today, with the question of negotiations, with the right communication and the preparation of projects and the preparation for large EU funds, only when we do this job will Croatia be able to function as a very, very good EU member. And finally, let me remind you once again when it's already being debated. IPA and structural funds are similar, but they're both sky and earth. So we need money, we need a lot of personnel to be successful. What saddens me is that there's been a two-time mention of public blurry or how someone even said public seduction at one point. What does it mean to you, in fact, what does it look like to you when the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia's investment projects mean to you, the ones she presented to the public, in fact, to projects that will only be financed from future funds? So the same story about how you're saying someone's cheating on the public. Well, that's cheating too. So do you know what it means, what job has to be done for 3.5 billion euros? And then neatly these projects come out of the sleeves and say it's now a strategy and it's our big investment projects. And don't forget when the first Euros come to you it'll be a long time ago, past elections and be the new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67524	We have four corrections, and then the minister will also participate in the debate. First is Mrs. Marija Pejcinović-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67525	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Mondekar, I really don't know what I'd fix, a lot of incorrect allegations, but the thing that bothers me most is your hypocrisy. You are talking about the Alliance for Europe, what an alliance for Europe, the entire SDP does not have a vote today on the inclusion of a agenda item to be completed on Friday. Please, nice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67526	Thank you. Madam Representative Đurjica Sumrak, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67527	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Here's what colleague Pejcinović said is your irresponsibleness, but not only now, it's known it doesn't have you, it needs one law, fog you sell, hypocrisy, it worked 25. Six. In 91st when you were not there to decide Croatia's independence, you will do so in the future. I'm sorry about these young people upstairs and I'm glad they saw who's for Europe and who's not for Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67528	Thank you, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic, for the correction as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67529	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Mondekar incorrectly said that Mr. Minister is spreading misinformation or false information, that our public is misinformed about all the moves our government has made for pre-accession funds. It is very sad for us MPs, especially for me who I am younger than you, that you, as a representative and representative of the youth from the SDP, are talking about what is simply not true. Your party in Zagreb, the capital of Croatia, has been in power for 10 years, no kuna has been withdrawn from pre-accession funds for the largest city in Croatia. And it's a shame that as a young man you spread misinformation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67530	Correction by Ms. Nevenka Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67531	Thank you. I am correcting the incorrect allegations that no units of local and regional self-government are equipped, that is not true, colleague Mondekar. Those who wanted them could have been prepared through the funds so far and many of them, so let's say Zadar County has withdrawn a third of the resources from the SAPARD programme, although some of yours say they haven't. The town of Benkovac has withdrawn more funds than the Primorje-Gorski County and the City of Zagreb combined, depending on them who wanted to prepare for the withdrawal of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67532	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I once again ask the clubs to secure the quorum for a decision to supplement the agenda. As you know, the president of the National Committee, Ms. Vesna Pusic, explained the need for us to pass another law by Friday, on Friday, to close this chapter, and I would like to warn you again, and now please welcome Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mr. Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67533	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would appeal on behalf of the Government to all the Assembly Clubs if they really joined the vote of this point of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest because it measured our closure of Chapter 23. So we can put aside now party bickering, but the fact is that there's no one here on the left and thus you're making it impossible to put that point on the agenda, which means we won't be able to meet the criterion in chapter 23. I don't know what message you're sending to all of us, Croatian citizens and citizens, whether you're taking responsibility for it if that's why you're going to have a problem closing chapter 23. I don't have to admit to you clearly and really appeal to you on behalf of the Government to accept that point being put on the agenda more than we'll all have the opportunity to remove from officials, parliamentary deputies, ministers when the law is passed that they are corrupt, that they have more property than they show. So when this law is passed, we will all clearly and transparently present our assets, our bank accounts. I hope that's not why the SDP might avoid including that point on the agenda. As for supporting citizens to join the European Union, the latest survey conducted by the ministry in January 2011 said 81% of citizens would vote in a referendum, to 59% vote for, 33 would be against, and the rest would be abstention. Also this cro... research, again I have to tell Mr. Mondekar that you're misleading the public because it's not support, but support is growing. In the latest survey against Croatia's EU membership, 40.8 was now 40.3. For membership it is now 49.4 which is 0.3% higher than it was a month earlier. And I agree that we need to step up the work with the citizens, but also with the membership, with the sympathisers, there are interesting figures. So here you see the largest share of Croatian membership advocates in HDZ, HSLS and HNS voters, and SDP is less, that's interesting. So I would invite you to work with your membership as well, so try to convince him that it is good for Croatia to join the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67534	Thank you. We have one correction. Mr. Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67535	Your Honor. We are working very hard with our membership, but our membership is equally concerned about the lack of real structural reforms that are your responsibility. Now, next time, please give a replica of the esteemed HDZ, you get an answer, so let's take it in a row. Zagreb participates in 40 projects as a partner. Start to distinguish everyone here who is pre-accession and what are community programs, where are millions of amounts, where the City of Zagreb is the most normal jump... And finally, our responsibility, so you're the ruling majority, so it's not my fault that you're unable to collect your hands here. [[The speaker is disabled, not understood.]] And number two on your European face. Your European face until a year ago was Ivo Sanader and it speaks enough about you and your... [[The speaker is disabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67536	As you can see, we don't have a quorum left, so we'll proceed with the debate. Madam Representative Anna Lovrin is on her way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67537	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will discuss in anticipation of the return of SDP MPs to finally take responsibility for something, not to be constantly constructively restrained and resolutely perhaps. So that when they tell everyone that they are for the European, for the consensus, then come here, they set up the item of the agenda that is necessary in the negotiations and in order to meet the criteria, and that ultimately enables and implement the acts that we are voting and bringing here in the House. I will, of course, support this plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis for 2011, as one continuous plan of action and as one implementing act, and in achieving that final and strategic consensus of the set objective, which is Croatia's entry into the EU. And as we have heard so far in harmonising legislation, almost 500 laws are in line with the EU acquis, which we have done and what we see now is a plan ahead of us, that this plan has reached a higher level, a higher level. So, in most cases, it is about amending already harmonised laws with the acquis of the EU, but as we know, the acquis and the EU's legal regulation is a living organism that is in line with the movements of political, social and political movements at EU level. This plan we are discussing today is an integral part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme for the takeover and implementation of the EU acquis. This act may look different in the future after we pass a new law that, in accordance with the new constitutional provisions on parliamentary control or government supervision in participating in EU legislative processes, we can then and all together expect a far more active role of Parliament in the creation of legislation and EU legislation. This activity will also continue after Croatia's entry into the EU. What we have seen in the EU Member States is that many of them have special government offices or special parliamentary bodies which are currently questioning each intended in order to adopt each act and law, to question whether it is in accordance with the acquis or with EU law. Of course, here today should be repeated if it is necessary for a hundred times to pass laws and Croatian but also European regulations are not intended for themselves. It is the provision of a single, legal and market space and still does not work itself, but to achieve a better or better standard of Croatian citizens and political and economic and legal. We've heard a lot of things here today about funds in every debate, and that's how this one should be objective. Therefore, we cannot close our eyes and cannot say that there are no in certain cases and no misunderstandings and sufficient irregularities and insufficient proactive access to the state administration when it comes to providing the necessary documentation for the application according to EU funds, but it is not even so disastrous and should not be shown in public. Of course, not one moment did the minister say that Croatia is the best at using European funds but we would like it to be, but it is not. The minister said he has a good assessment, that he is among the better countries in the withdrawal of EU funds, but that is not said by the minister, that is not said by HDZ representatives, that is what the European Commission is saying and that is what Mr Van Doren is saying, so I suppose the SDP could trust them. And finally, I support this program. The programme lists 40 laws that are necessary to make it clear that our regulations are in line with the EU acquis. But that doesn't mean that we won't have law proposals here in the House for which there is no pure acquis, but which are needed which I would say or call my own creation in order to meet the final criteria or what we have committed to meeting in the negotiating positions. So there are among the political parties financing and conflict of interest, as regards Chapter 23, I will only list, but also a series of laws that ensure a transparent and professional choice of judges, progress in the judicial career, and all of which, of course, just to achieve the ultimate goal, and that is an effective, professional and impartial judiciary. So, in relation to this, I will say only in the domain of justice, I read here two laws that are extremely important not only to bring them into line with the gain, but also because they are important in the area of justice and for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that is the Law on the legal consequences of convictions in criminal records and rehabilitation and the Penal Code that requires indeed one whole inquiry, of course for the sake of harmonisation and standards and protected social goods uniformly in the area of the entire legal area of the EU, but of course also for the sake of the balanced protection of social goods within themselves, the measurement of penalties, as well as the question whether all the conducts covered by this existing criminal law are, of course, in terms of technology, the development of the economy and the development of social relations. And in particular, it seems important to me to regulate the legal regulations or law on criminal records, the legal consequences of convictions and rehabilitation, because it is extremely important that in certain segments the community or society has knowledge of powerful and sustained convictions in order to protect other parts of society, and it is also important to find a balance in the ability to rehabilitate convicts which has certainly not been reached by the current regulations and has not been done. And finally, here is Mr. Minister, I pray in the alignment of Croatian rules with the acquis very often we have problems with the literal implementation of the directives, and then in the texts of Croatian laws we get syntagms that are not in the spirit of Croatian language. On our frequent enquiries, especially on the Legislative Committee, we get the answer that European Commission experts have just asked for a certain term to be translated because they understand it and then we get the texts of Croatian laws which are understandable to European Commission experts, but are not understandable to Croatian citizens because in the spirit of Croatian language, certain expressions get a very different meaning. Therefore, I pray that when we coordinate to think, protect and all in accordance with our negotiating positions and with what we have jointly agreed at European Union level, we are now still a candidate but very quickly as a full member, and then in relation to the texts and the no-technical style of our legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67538	Thank you. It's Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67539	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It seems really by our normative that the European story, the Croatian European story, is nearing its end, so at least it seems as regards the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, perhaps with one sentence to remember that this Croatian road to Europe, we are now on the threshold of the European Union, being thorny, paved by many not flat plates but by many obstructions. All we remember is the Split Riva and then how it was turkeyed in Europe on the Split coast, let's just remember the chestnuts. Of course, all of this was not that Croatia would have been in the European Union long ago. And then when the matter was prepared that way and by ruling to give recognitions to the coalition government, pre-accession negotiations were opened. It seemed to me in 2005 at the 10th month when congratulations were clapping from all sides, and among the first congratulators then Prime Minister Sanader congratulated who, no one else, but who is now being processed in Austria, the second man Hypo Bank, Mr Wolfgang Kulterer, who chose to declare what our media reported. I literally quote: "I first congratulated Prime Minister Sanader on opening pre-accession negotiations", so I note that was 2005, "with which I concluded the first big deal in Croatia" means 1995. So, we have more laws that have a P.Z.E. code. Which really has now become much thinner, so a lot of laws we've passed, it's more of a violation of the law because we don't even implement our own laws of domestic use, unfortunately, let alone those with high standards. This is our great tribulation, and let us not interfere with our minds, regardless, and when the negotiations are over, it will follow us exactly how much time we have been living what we have brought. However, it is our Croatian story and I'm afraid she has two faces and I'm afraid she has figs in her pocket. In fact, the elections are now going to be submitted to Europe, so not only with lawmaking but also with life, living and adapting these laws, so how they function in practice, and on the other hand how to be courted, because the rulings, of course, care for every vote and those who think they still light up Balkan rhetoric. So, I'm afraid it's going to be a kind of speech, and the work of another species, so with every kind of kindness and no one honest. In fact, it's often happened here, there's been this talk, about ZERP and a lot of other stories about how we did during the negotiations and how we normally treat ourselves outside and how we treat ourselves inside. We have often acted as a humble vassal to the outside, and to the inside, to our own citizens, to those same citizens we ask for every four years a voice, and then to ignore them, how did the government behave? Often like a boastful vizier. That's the double policy, we'll pass the laws, but let's let it go, it's the main thing is that we make the laws, and then we'll do the old ones. So... We're going to put on a European rug, a European suit that shines like this, but we prefer the one that's maimed, we prefer the old trampled shoes because it's a more comfortable walk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the Croatian story, and unfortunately, such a story is also a testimony to the overcrowding of the Administrative Court, which speaks of cases that citizens seek to protect human rights violations, elemental rights by individual ministries. Unfortunately, if you see statistics, look at the statistical review of the work of the courts, except for these merchants who also have a flood now because of the crisis, but also the Administrative Court, and that is the case, and the Administrative Court is the protector of human rights, the rights of citizens of force and of the lawlessness of the authorities. Therefore, law enforcement is something that is alarming in Croatia. This is where the spirits got excited, so it was taken care of here and counted, so wait for only one man to be offended and discriminated, it's little that anyone here would dare to talk about some kind of discrimination and even when it comes from high officials. We've passed so many laws, it's just the laws of P.Z.E. But they're breaking up like that because they say it's not... Well, then here and there, if there's a case, besides that, it's been election year, and then there's really no need to take care of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it won't hurt our citizens. So much o, I would say about the demeaning of my own citizens when one rhetoric is directed towards the European ears that we so humbly hold by this authority, that they are subtle until for our citizens it is not a story, they want another story. I think it's the wrong policy and it's ultimately very obvious. Therefore, law enforcement is something that is Croatia's cancer wound and should be taken into account accordingly. So our customs with these customs simply need to be stopped. But these aren't our customs that citizens love. It is simply some message sent in one way or another by the authorities if not directly from the highest levels, then surely such local ones, by local policy or certain officials from that level, are referred to the public. What should therefore be done already in this period. We have laws to pass. And where's the Bankruptcy Act here? Where is the Law on Rules to Protect Croatian Workers? These aren't European stories. So we're very interested in how to half and how to protect foreign capital. We will be the country of the European Union tomorrow. Do you think the European Union, that Germany will solve our domestic problems? And tomorrow, when we enter the European Union, we will live as good or as bad as good or bad Croatian rule. And that's something to take care of. Why are some laws also our colleagues from the SDP used to say that. Why does some law have a P.Z. code? And some don't. Or there's in one period, and there's not in another. Let's remember the novel of the Penal Code that you were adept at ruling, and then the opposition was against that law, and now you're going to pass it. And with the same authors that you've been so pronouncing and bifaming, even though European voice experts and without which you really don't know how to make that law, you don't know how to make modern economic incrimination to protect it, because it's a basic anti-corruption measure. All these others are helpful. So all that's happening today, a lot of things that aren't covered, or if they are possibly covered by such charges, the question is how they're going to experience their court epilogue. And that's thanks to exactly what inadequate economic incrimination you've been up against. Now you have nowhere else to go, and here I am glad that change will happen in that sense. But it leaves you a question, a question nobody talks about. So I repeat, tomorrow we are a country in the European Union. How did we protect Croatian employment? Whose job is that? Isn't that also a European story? And I warn that just at one meeting of the International Organisation, the work that took place in Switzerland was about how a Croatian worker was forced to work so hard for so little money. And you don't care! We have on several occasions suggested that it should enter into the Penal Code something that we have had so far. But you think it's a pain in the ass to protect the weak one. And just as Croatia enters the European Union, this is exactly the kind of need for such protection when it comes to full foreign capital to protect the Croatian worker at least as much as it is protected by both the German worker or the French worker. Can you imagine if there is one country in the European Union where it is possible for a worker to work without receiving a salary for it? It doesn't exist. Because it's just not possible to happen there. He can't do business anymore. He can even stay in debt to the suppliers. He'll be on the blacklist. But not to pay for workers it is simply for the round of the European Union countries something that is not only illegal, but deeply immoral and on these gains lies the European Union. I think we've got one and one grain of brains in front of us, and not that we're opening new factories in front of this election, and that's the only foundation stone factory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67540	Thank you very much. You've made five corrections, so... And why won't you hear them? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] But we would be so grateful to you that we can watch you at the corrections here to listen to that. We've got Mrs. Gyurjka's rectification of the twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67541	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. Well, that's it, elemental rudeness, haughtiness, hypocrisy. And it is not true what the colleague said in her tone if it wasn't for the Split Riva would Croatia be in Europe. No, I'll tell you something. They weren't there, so a colleague doesn't know. 25.6.91. The year became an independent Croatia, it was voted on. It is important that young people of the SDP, the parties of that time were not in the Parliament, they did not raise their hands, they were not for Croatia. They are never there when deciding on Croatia and they can only pour parole and fog. Who's the boaster? Well, they're arrogant and hypocritical and they don't have any, there's absolutely no argument. But when you don't have the arguments, this is how you behave. It is sad that they took into themselves parties who feel the same way. But now for the second time. What I wanted to say about the young. I hope the media will pass it along, to remember that Croatia wouldn't have been if it hadn't been for HDZ, this government in '91. years because they would never be Croatia and could not enter the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67542	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67543	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is incorrect that the representative said that the Croatian blatant is a vizier to the citizens. He doesn't respect rights, he doesn't protect workers, etc. But no matter what they're gone, even though the SDPs spring in here into the assembly like moles one by one, I'll make it right that it's incorrect. Look, just as this representative Anticevic was the minister of the coalition government at the time, the most violations of workers' rights were made in Croatia. Neither were collective agreements respected, nor was the Labour Law respected. Workers were cut off their salaries without an agreement with their social partners. So there have been the biggest protests ever since they were held just when the SDP was the leader of the government because they were drastically violating workers' rights because they served the IMF back then. They were servants of the IMF, and even greater servants worked from the workers and violated their rights to their harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67544	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67545	Thank you, Mr. President, Hushka. According to counterpart Anticevic, we ignore citizens after the elections and laws passed and demean our own citizens. That's not true, colleague. That's what you might say when you tell me about the SDP, about the members of your party while you're acting government at the state level, and even today you're holding power at the level of units of local and regional self-government. That's exactly what's going on. You bring laws to these levels. You've passed laws without consulting the citizens, and that's how you ignored the citizens. We today, every day, I speak for myself and believe in the name of all members of the Croatian Democratic Community club, every day we are with and among the citizens, and among the young people, and among the pensioners, and among Croatian defenders, and among the wartime disabled, and all other groups of citizens, there are public debates, round tables, proposals from the field are being heard before the concrete laws are passed, and this was not a practice while you were in power in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67546	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67547	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague who's already corrected a whole series of incorrect allegations. He's stuck to my ear, of course it's an incorrect assumption that this is about Europe's advocacy. Well, fellow Anticevic, if he considers 5 hundred laws passed by Europeans, he considers courtship, then he really speaks a lot about it. And the other one says that words are one and the other. And our colleagues on the left show their actions by playing hide and seek behind these pillars. I think it is their approach to this action and accession to the European Union. But otherwise they show a lot of knowledge, they show a lot of knowledge. So when you know so much about knowledge and information, then why didn't you advise your colleagues in Zagreb to act, to work. So it is in the end that my thesis that the words without deed are like a bowl without a meal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67548	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Susana Bilic Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67549	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Antičević said, quote: "The government demeans its own citizens." That's just not true. And my colleagues said that. Friends from the Social Democratic Party today, by their conduct, hiding and squatting behind the pillars of this assembly, are disdaining this High House, and therefore citizens and citizens who chose them, so I hope that they will not make that mistake again and again. Our colleague accuses us, also incorrectly, of some, of us in power for some old habits, and by today's behaviour, the Social Democrats show that they do not give up their old habits, there were no '91s. in this assembly, they went out when they voted on Croatia's independence, today they obstruct the addition of the agenda to a point that is important to us for the closure of Chapter 23, and thus show how much they care about Croatia entering the European Union. However, with or without them, Croatia, headed by this Croatian government, will complete accession negotiations, pre-accession negotiations and sign an Agreement to join the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67550	Thank you very much. I hope that's what you'd say to me in Dalmatia if no one had made out today or been pinching. I hope so. We still have an individual discussion, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67551	Well, here's Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. I wanted to take part in this debate briefly, and support, of course, the proposal for this legal text that is ahead of us. This morning there were a lot of speeches on this left-hand side of the pay phone about how Europe is not these laws, but how Europe is behaviour. So here's if the behaviour of the Social Democratic Party this morning is what they're now demonstrating to us with empty benches, then now I realize how they think of that Europe. They really can't keep this quiet. The mouth was full of alliances for Europe this morning and their colleague Mondekar, and in the end they act out of an ambush, really behind those pillars, and I think their relationship, that they've all said this morning. As for this morning, there was talk of standards, respect for minority rights, human rights, etc. They're all the opposite of what they said this morning, and now they've demonstrated by this act. I think it's absolutely inadmissible, but in parliamentary life, obviously anything is possible. We were talking about strengthening the role of the Parliament, which came from the Lisbon Agreement, so here is the moment that the roles of national parliaments are just becoming important and it is not just a mere takeover of the law from the European Union, but there are some rights that parliaments have, which we can do after 8 weeks, after Europe gives us the law, discuss and see what we will do with it. In any case, you can say what you want here, but the fact that more than 500 laws have been passed in the last 4.5 years, the fact that a lot of sublegal acts have been passed, as well as that the adoption of these laws has not ended all the procedures, it is a continuous process and we will have to align existing laws, which is normal, but by the very fact that in this document we have 40 laws that we owe in 2011, we show our readiness to become a member of the European Union. I hope so, and I believe that by the end of June this year we will finish negotiations and I hope to sign a contract. Something that's here this morning, I wanted to draw attention to, that's this cohesion policy that's been a lot of talk about, and actually says this morning from the SDP, Europe protects its interests, Europe won't care if we don't spend those funds, etc. That is why it is called cohesion policy in order for equal development to take place in all Member States of the European Union, and it is precisely Europe and Brussels that cares that all the members of the European Union are well enough, sufficiently developed. That is also why these funds are made available. And it's not true that we're not personnel teams, and it's not true that, especially since there's a government decree that there's no employment ban in this segment. So there is no employment ban in the segment when it comes to the staff needed to prepare European funds. So it is entirely wrong that they will not be sad that we will not use the money, etc., I think that the interest of Europe and European policy is that all countries are equally, equally developed. In any case, I want to support this plan as an integral part of the government plan of the Republic of Croatia, and I want to believe that these two laws for the closure of Chapter 23, which is why we cannot put it on the agenda today, and the second Law on the financing of political parties and promotions, that we will succeed in discussing and adopting them, and that in this way we will close Chapter 23. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia has fulfilled all obligations, and that all other obligations arising from harmonisation will also be met. Here's to not being too long, to get to 13:30, thank and support.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67552	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67553	Well, here I would like to tell my colleague that it is true that the SDP is full of Europe, and European laws, but until the moment these same laws begin to apply to their members. Then there's nothing wrong. In particular, here is a law that we should put into the agenda today, so conflict of interest, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which apparently wants to postpone in any way, perhaps because we talk a little bit about bills, not publicly but has the right, the Commission has the right to seek insight into accounts, so perhaps it is a matter of calling for resignation and similar things, so everything they normally do not want to accept, but then they could say so in the debate. We're against it, not avoiding it at all. So I think the most important thing is that they actually want to break deadlines, in other words not to get into this law, that we can't send it together. Finally, the deadline expires and no one expected them to do it this way, but then we need to make it clear who's responsible for what. Therefore, no law is before, and especially their mouths are full of corruption, except when it comes to their members who are toiling in corruption, but are actually protecting them, defending them in every way possible, and attacking and biting everyone around them. However, sooner or later the truth comes out.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67554	Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67555	... an English proverb that says "In every cloud there is something silver" in every cloud there is something silver. Not everyone is evil for evil. Maybe it's not bad that the days weren't quorum. We are obliged to secure the quorum, we will secure it during the day and tomorrow. But this way, what the SDP is up to has been discovered. In this way, they have shown that they are obstructing that exactly what Mrs. Anticevic was saying to one another, and the other thinks that this is exactly what it is worth to them. And if it hadn't been for this case, we would have looked at them in the benches and thought they were pro-European-oriented, and in fact, in this way, they've shown exactly this key law where it's about preventing conflicts of interest where they don't want to support this commendable legal step, I'll say.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67556	Thank you. And five minutes on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67557	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's the bottom line, let me first of all believe in the name of all of us to congratulate Ivica Kostelic at the winning bronze medal in the Super Gallows at the World Cup. We have heard many times what the situation is with the use of the means of pre-accession aid, especially those for agriculture. It is understandable that the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja are of particular interest to analyse the usefulness of these funds, especially the SAPARD and IPARD funds. This is because in our 5 Slavonsko-Baranja County there are almost 56% of total orans in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, all the policies of the government of the Republic of Croatia have so far been without a clear strategy, but concepts of the development of the agricultural and food industry. In this way, great injustices were made against Slavonia and Baranja and made it the poorest economic region. The best indicator of the central government's relationship to agriculture, the village and the food industry is the fact of 15 billion kuna imported agricultural products in 2009. Therefore, our expectations from EU funds are justly high. Untimely training of implementation structures at national level, insufficient information and education of end-users, and an extremely rigorous criterion for the development of projects particularly in first competitions, have adversely affected the use of the SAPARD programme, and we are adding great mistrust and dissuasion of users to launch adaptation projects to European standards. Regarding the already mentioned usability of the SAPARD Fund here, Mr. Minister, let me just say that the information that you have presented contrary to the data provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, something that resembles a neurological disorder called dyskinesia, which is a disorder of non-compliance that is the simplest said movement of the left or right or of the unsatisfactory movements. So in our government, it seems like you don't know what's left and right. The Department of Agriculture is going with one data, and you're going with other data. In any case, the Government hopes that the situation will be better with the SAPARD heir or IPARD. It makes more than a billion kuna available to Croatia, but appears at a very unfortunate moment, at the time of recession, government budget deficits, lack of incentives, lack of money and support. This is already evident from the first competition, with a markedly low response, only 37 projects of a total value of about 153 million kuna were reported. When it comes to IPARD, from the very beginning it is thought that he is not really for Croatian peasants because most are over-indebted, but more for the European one. In addition, for pre-financing, which is needed for IPARD, our peasants are in an unfavourable position in relation to farmers in the European Union, as interest on loans in Croatia is much more than in the European Union. Most of the European Union's co-financing and pre-financing issues have been established, it has decided to set up funds at national level, which has not yet been done in Croatia. It is also one of the basic preconditions for the application of infrastructure projects to the European Union funds and the possession of all the necessary documentation, unfortunately most local self-government units have no financial capacity to achieve the same outcome, as they are unable to engage we have heard already very expensive consultants. Because of all this, the HDSSB's club, considering the situation with upcoming accession, wants to explain to the Croatian public that we are completely unacceptable to keeping all facts secret in relation to the chapters that have been closed so far, and the lack of preparation of the Republic of Croatia for entry into the European Union is obvious. This unpreparedness and organisation will result in more annual membership fees than we will withdraw funds from available funds. Finally, the HDSSB advocates' club is again looking for, and we have already pointed out this once, the immediate removal of the state secret code with documents so far negotiated and closed chapters, it is necessary to immediately meet the entire Croatian public on the content of these documents, as well as on the negotiating positions of the Government of Croatia, as well as to seek assurance that the preparation and negotiation process so far has provided Croatia with all the conditions for the smooth development and protection of all layers of Croatian society, as well as those living from agriculture. Similarly, we cannot say what is mentioned today, and we require the Government to answer precisely what is asked of the European Union when it comes to intensifying the war crimes process. If that means, and we're afraid it means further persecution of the defenders, then I think everyone is wrong if they think it will go without consequences, because Croatian defenders did not create a Croatian state to be persecuted by their... And even less to live in their own country like a ghetto. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, we are not Europhobia, but we do not think that it is wise to come into the European Union again as a goose in the fog. Despite all these remarks, requests, and these demands, this is not an obstacle to our confirmation of this proposal. Therefore, the HDSB Club will support this plan, however, but we ask that these observations be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67558	Thank you. We have two corrections. This is Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić. First.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67559	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the information here presented by Mr. Minister is inconsistencies with those of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because Mr. Minister has provided official and concrete information, and I don't know what information you have. Also a respected colleague with this card that you started your presentation with, I expected one of your apologies to come to Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Unfortunately, she was left behind, and since we are doctors in the Assembly, we are bound by ethics and medical call to behave responsibly in this House because we do not stop being doctors here, I think what you did this morning deserves the ethical commission of the Croatian Medical Chamber to be adverted and actually take its stand because it was an illicit abuse of medical status and authority in the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67560	Correction Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67561	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Buric said several incorrect allegations, and he stuck his ear out to me that all the policies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia were without a clear strategy on the development of agriculture. Absolutely incorrect. In addition to this, the operational programmes in viticulture, olive growing, say that I do not speak in all these areas. And he says he needs an education. I believe that you need education to know that you must not violate the laws of the Republic of Croatia in this House. You're also breaking the Health Protection Act and the medical code waving here with some god's instructions. You don't know your colleague that it's an absolute violation of the law, because this isn't even a place, and you're not authorized to make any diagnosis. So you're the one who doesn't know what you're doing, you don't know what makes you left, which makes you right. That's why she's my recommendation that I'm not going to give you instructions but to say maybe it's good to take some insurance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67562	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67563	Dear Mr. President, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 209. What you're talking about is absolutely nothing to do with what I'm talking about, and you don't have to give me any recommendations. I have not come to the Croatian Parliament to remain silent, I have already told you, I am not a member of the HDZ Representatives Club and you will have to listen to what you do not like and what you do not want to hear. You'll have to want it or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67564	Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67565	Col. Buric violated Article 214. So don't argue with you colleagues no right to speak, but the right to insult this High House and to violate the laws of this country absolutely have no right to do so, and for this reason you have absolutely earned a reminder and all other measures provided for by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67566	Don't take a word you didn't get because it's against the Rules of Procedure, no one can speak unless they get a word from the president, so whoever he is. Let us conclude this in such a way that we will give our word to the Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Minister Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67567	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would only ultimately like to thank everyone who participated in the debate, there were actually more discussions on everything else and at least on what it was about, and that is to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union in 2011. And I think that, in conclusion, we should point out that Croatia has completed everything that is necessary when it comes to negotiations, that we have brought our legislation into line with European Union legislation, and what we are going to do in 2011 only confirms that practically Croatia is already a full member of the European Union, and all this work that we have to finish is ahead of us. However, it will only strengthen us further in our position and future membership in the European Union. In the name of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to do the manipulation of Croatian defenders and the question of the processing of war crimes which we have heard from both the SDP and now from the HDSB, and I find them truly unworthy and unworthy of this Croatian Assembly, and on behalf of the Government, I will repeat once again on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community are Croatian defenders of the Holy Ones, they were, they are, and will be when Croatia enters the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67568	Thank you. I hereby conclude the debate on this item of the agenda and announce a break of up to 15 hours when we will begin with the item of the agenda of the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency. Here, pleasant, sweet. We are going to vote on the debated and closed agenda points. The first proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2011. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Parliamentary Working Authorities, I am voting on the draft plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2011. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This proposal for a harmonisation plan was accepted by most votes, 106 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67570	Let's start with the afternoon session of the Parliament. Second point as announced - Statute of the Competition Protection Agency Proposer of the Competition Protection Agency. The Authority for the Protection of Competition submitted its Statute on the basis of Article 26 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on the protection of competition. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Olgica Spevec, President of the Competition Protection Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67571	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Therefore, before you there is the Statute of the Agency which, as the Vice-President said, the Croatian Parliament should be confirmed in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Competition. In view of the fact that a new Law on the Protection of Competition granted to the Agency and new powers came into force last year, in particular the expression of administrative and criminal measures, strengthened its powers regarding unannounced search of apartments, business premises, apartments and other premises and a number of other tasks, the agency must be re-established. Therefore, this Statute is a necessary prerequisite for the adoption of a series of rules of the Agency so that it can be reorganised and could actually fulfil the tasks given to it both by the Law on the Protection of Competition and by the State Aid Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67572	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67573	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. President-in-Office of the Council with a co-worker, co-worker and fellow MPs. Therefore, we have before us the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency adopted by the Competition Protection Council as the most governing body of the Agency at its session held on 16 December 2010. Allow me at the beginning of this debate, of course related to the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency, which will be fully supported by the Croatian Assembly of Representatives of the HDZ, but I do say a few sentences about the Competition Protection Agency itself and its importance and something general about the concept of freedom of competition. Namely, the Competition Protection Agency was founded on the basis of a decision of the Croatian Parliament since 20 September 1995, and in early 1997 it practically started working. In accordance with Article 1 of the Statute in force, as well as the new Statute which we believe will be accepted by this High House by the Agency is a legal person with public powers who independently and completely independently performs tasks within the framework of the delirquent and the competences laid down by the Law on the Protection of Competition and the Law on State Assistance. Somewhere in the opening part, I have already mentioned how the Agency is managed by a Board for the Protection of Competition of 5 members appointed and dismissed by the Croatian Parliament, and on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What is more important is the fact that members of the board are appointed for a period of 5 years and that they can be re-appointed and that they carry out their duties professionally, which means that they are practically employees of the Agency, i.e. in a working relationship with the Agency. Of course, the Council has its own President who represents and represents the Agency and manages its operations, and is also responsible for the professional and legal work of the Agency. In particular, President, or President of the Council for the Protection of the Competition, Mrs Olgica Spevec, who is here with us today, who, in the opinion of us from the HDZ Representatives Club, but I am also convinced that the vast majority of representatives in the Croatian Parliament are very conscious, responsible and professional. I think we can all agree together that this finding and this assessment can be given for the agency's work as a whole. When it comes to freedom of competition, it should be said that it is crucial for the progress of all countries, as well as for the Republic of Croatia, which builds its economies and their development on the principle of free competition, rather than on state intervention, which generally leads certain entrepreneurs or sectors to a more favourable position than others, thereby derivating market laws and market equality. The freedom of competition is also a driving force of the market economy, given the fact that it motivates entrepreneurs to innovation, i.e. the development of new products and services, to apply new technologies and technological processes, all in order to find competitive products and services which, with their price and other characteristics, will be able to meet the needs of as many consumers as possible. Therefore, the purpose and objective of protecting competition is to ensure and preserve equal opportunities and access and survival on the market for all entrepreneurs, and in practice, the free market of competition favours all. Therefore, both consumers and entrepreneurs and the economy as a whole. Finally, the central place in this area of action is, of course, taking up an agency which performs its basic tasks on the one hand by preventing the conclusion of prohibited agreements and the abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs on the market and the control and assessment of the authorisation of their concentration and, on the other hand, by performing the tasks of the assessment of the authorisation and the supervision of the implementation and recovery of state aid. And that will be the theme of today's session of the Parliament. The new Competition Protection Act adopted by this House in 2009 came into force on October 1st last year. So, just over four months ago. We consider it necessary to remind ourselves that we have adopted a series of solutions from the EU acquis and have significantly strengthened the role of the agency in view of the new powers that the future agency will have, in particular, with regard to the jurisdiction to impose penalties on lawmakers and generally the freedom of competition. In addition, the law obliges the Agency to comply with its statutes and other general acts with the new provisions of the law no later than 6 months from the date of its entry into force. As I have already said before, the Competition Protection Council has drawn up and adopted a new Statute that could enter into force in the future require prior confirmation by the Croatian Parliament, which is in accordance with the provision of Article 26(5). The law on the protection of competition. That's why we're discussing the statute in question today. Therefore, the State of the Agency for the Protection of Competition, which lies before us, addresses issues related to the Agency's activity and its powers. In the context of which the administrative and professional activities carried out by the Agency are detailed and are in substance in line with the provisions of the Competition Protection Act and the State Aid Act. The Statute also provides for a reporting obligation, detailing what these reports must contain. It is also detailedly arranged to manage the Agency, i.e. the division of operations within the Agency, with a clearly separate decision-making process from their decision-making process. Therefore, the preparation shall be carried out by the professional service and the decisions shall be taken by the Council. The powers of the President of the Council have been established as regards the management of the professional service, in so far as its rights are concerned in the decision-making of the Authority’s competence, which does not differ in essence from the rights of the other members of the Council, and has finally been prescribed in part from the work of the Council. In addition to this part of the Statute, the part governing the management of the Agency has been subject to the provisions of the laws relating to the conditions for the appointment of presidents and members of the Council, for which it is important to note that they are significantly strict. Then to the duration of their term of office, the conflict of interest and the resolution and termination of the mandate as well as the rights resulting from this. Furthermore, the Statute regulates the way in which the Agency is financed, the obligation to adopt an annual financial plan, the general acts that the Agency must have, and in accordance with the law on protection against competition, regulates the rights and relations of employment, conflict of interest of workers, and the obligation to keep a business secret that lasts five years after the end of work in the Agency. The Agency’s obligation to comply with its provisions within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the Statute in question has finally been prescribed. Finally, with the conclusion that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the confirmation of the Statute of the Agency for Protection against Competition, we express our confidence that the president of the Agency, members of the Council, as well as all the employees of the Agency will be able to take appropriate advantage of the opportunities that we have given them by adopting a new Law on the Protection of Competition and, in this context, by the President of the Agency, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community wants a lot of success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67574	Thank you. It is the turn of the HNS HSU Club, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67575	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mrs. Spevec. Of course, the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Pensioners will respect the obligation given to us by the Croatian Assembly to adopt the Law on the Protection of Competition, which entered into force on 1 October of last year, to adopt the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency within six months, and this job is ahead of us and of course we will vote in favour of this Statute. However, in good faith we want to say a few things because some things seem illogical to us. I've looked at the law well, and I've had a good look at the Statute of the Agency, and I have to say that at 11 points, the law is exactly prescribed in the statute. It may not be literal, it may be turned around in order of words but the things already defined by law are copied to the Statute, which I think is unnecessary, that unnecessary loss of energy, paper, writing and all that is expensive. I think if there's something in the law, explicit, that if we don't want to change anything in the Statute in that article, we don't need to rewrite it. Unless, in Croatia, legal practice, we have a nomotechnical form that could be called "twice twice". I think it's an unnecessary waste of energy, time, paper and everything. The fact is that a third of the articles are copied from the Law and what has awakened us is Article 10 in which Articles 5 and 6 in the third version of the Statute have entered into force in the conduct of the operations referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article, the Agency shall have public authority and cooperate with the authorities which oversee financial operations in the Republic of Croatia relating to state support. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. I would like to know why this must be highlighted when it is already in Article 1. The Statute and the Article of the Law state that the Agency for the Protection of Competition is a legal person with public powers who independently and independently performs tasks within the framework of the delirious and jurisdiction of a certain Law on Protection against Competition and the State Aid Act. Why it should be stressed that the state bodies therefore, the competent ministries must, but are already meant, if this is the Agency's basis for these tasks, there is a defined work cycle that should not be re-emphasised that the ministries have to cooperate with the Agency, it is its core job. I think it's a possible excessive normation. And what I had noted in part from my profession applies to Articles 29 and 30 where it says in Article 29. "The Agency keeps business books in accordance with accounting regulations," so it will not go against accounting regulations. Article 30 of the Agency must also be ensured, so of course when the Labour Protection Act said that all legal entities employing people must arrange protection at work, and I think that this Article 29 and Article 30 could have been avoided. And in these rules, Article 31 states that the Agency will adopt a Regulation on the Protection of Work and the Rules on the Management of Business Books and the matter is much simpler. So this is what I said exclusively in good faith because this Statute could have done everything in substance with a maximum of 20 articles, and it's all right not to rewrite the Law, because you know when you copy can always happen to a failure. It may be that the article of the Law states the sea and in the Statute of the Agency, I can, therefore, say this in good faith. Of course, once again, the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired will support this Statute as it is, because in the end, it is our obligation as representatives of the Croatian Parliament under the Law on the Protection of Competition. I have one wish that you probably won't meet, which would be that in this way the political market is regulated and that rules are introduced in the political market and that the right competition is protected, and not that there are audits for one political party, for some there are no. Not that some work neatly every four years of their election assembly, and some of the foundings have never met. Probably my wish will remain only a wish, but it's not a waste to say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67576	Thank you for your expression of desire. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative Gordan Maras is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Competition Protection Agency. In the beginning, I should say that the SDP Representatives' Club will support the Statute of the Agency because the Statute came from a well written Law on the Protection of Competition, which is largely taken over from some European practices and we think it is good and should be applied to the full extent in order to have... and fair market relations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we must mention, of course, when we are discussing this act is that we want what is more in practice to be applied and that the Agency is using its position, the statute, the law to prevent illicit behaviour on the market. Unfortunately, that doesn't exactly happen in too many cases, but hopefully the practice will change. I will give several examples and what we all know, that the market share and the presence of someone on a particular market is not in itself illegal, but it is illegal if someone is using it to benefit themselves or certain entrepreneurs, and at the expense of someone else and how if someone has a heavy impact on the market, a monopoly or an impact of more than 40% to control those entrepreneurs to see whether they are all equal in that game and whether they have the right and guaranteed fair match. I'm going to say a few examples that I'm afraid are very negative. One is certain and that the Agency has dealt with this over the past months, it is a gas market where our industry after Hungary's MOL acquired a heavy property in the INA's gas price has jumped and our gas price industry pays much more expensive than it pays in Hungary. On the other hand, in Croatia 2/3 of the gas is produced in Croatia, and we gave concessions to a company that sells to the Croatian gas industry to do so for the next 10 years and more. The Hungarian side, in Hungary, the gas is imported into 80% of the quantity and the logical question is whether the game is fair and whether our industry gets fair prices or someone has a preferential price, for example if it's a company from a neighbouring country. So, these things the Agency should do and I see that it's headed in that direction and we welcome that, especially after she's come to know what she's had, without having a special application, but based on the information she's had, and that's what the law allows her to do. The Agency has a very large modus operandi, can act on the basis of information, based on the reporting of individuals, natural and legal persons, associations, etc., but also on information that appears in the public and which, if they are of particular importance, should be verified. In this case, I see that the check is being carried out and we hope that we will get information about whether there have been any market abuses, or whether there would be a possibility that the Croatian industry has a more favourable situation than it does. Now, in some other cases, unfortunately, it's not done. Although there is a connection between certain companies, for example from the food industry and trade, there are no controls. So now I'm asking and I'm taking the opportunity to warn if it's an unfair trading condition and a commercial condition when you in one trade chain have to pay for a policy to sell your goods, and the other company doesn't have to pay for it. Do you not pay someone a certain period of time and pay others, and yet I say you have a crucial impact in a particular area, whether it is abuse of the position you have on the market. And I'm not gonna get tired of those questions until someone checks it out and answers it. Is abuse of position on the market when you may suggest a company sold to you that has to work with this other or third company that is the same in your possession. These things are quite often in public-known facts. I haven't seen any of that information in the Agency's work, and I'm sure they're familiar with that, too. Of course, the Agency can control and has very high powers based on its knowledge. When you read the law and the statute you see that it is possible to collect all possible information about the business of a particular company. Of course it shouldn't be used as some tool to pressure certain companies, but when there are reasonable doubts that there is one circle where someone, who has a great influence on the market, uses that position and then you have to check it. So thank God if it isn't true and report the same to the Croatian public. If it is not true to inform the Croatian public the same, whether it is easier or harder to do so. When it comes to the food industry, retailing, you have to do it on a periodical basis. So that we don't have the information that we have that someone from some retail chain is moving because he sold himself to a stranger or because he owns his own retail chain, so he can't sell at my place, etc. It is the interest of the market and it is an interest at the end of the Croatian citizens. I'd like to see one of those controls. And one more thing I'm going to point out. It's about selling motor vehicles. In Croatia we have a situation that when imports of motor vehicles those who import are usually companies owned by the manufacturer. They also import motor vehicles and also have the possibility of retailing those vehicles of their companies doing so in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So what happens now? The market until they had to invest much to open their salons was used by Croatian entrepreneurs who invested big money so they could sell their cars and the market worked that way but over the past 2 years, the market has fallen by almost 2 times, meaning 30% of what was in 2008. And now, of course, there is no room for so much autosalon or car relayer. And what are these importers doing now that have their companies registered for sale? Rabats, certain conditions go to certain companies that sold their cars and they get into trouble, and their companies that sell still don't touch. And there should be control and see what conditions for Croatian entrepreneurs when selling imported cars, which are for those owned by foreign businesses. And that's, of course, the same public presence, there's knowledge but we haven't seen the controls. So we absolutely support that it is finally functioning in this part of the market control in Croatia and that finally everything that appears as information in the media or individual producers appear and complains about certain market participants that finally the Agency is coming forward about the issues I said from which area, two I have now mentioned, is one retailing and food production, and the other is the auto-industry or the sale of motor vehicles. I think because it has a major impact on Croatian citizens, that many of these costs of unnecessary breakage across the back of Croatian citizens and that the Agency could ensure more equal participation of everyone on the market so that the economy would ultimately benefit most from it. It means ultimately supporting the Statute, and it continues to criticise the Agency and encourage us to finally work on this subject on the basis of these laws that we have applied and which have been used for many years in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67578	Thank you. Individual debates are in order. The first in line is Honorable Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67579	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mrs. President-in-Office of the Council with an associate, colleague and colleague. In front of us is the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency, with a sign of a new text, i.e. Nomotechnically harmonised text compared to the original proposal of the Statute that we got on the benches. The Agency for the Protection of Competition shall be responsible for the purpose of Article 76. The Law on the Protection of Competition, which entered into force on 1 October 2010, is obliged to bring the Statute of the Agency in line with the provisions of the Competition Protection Act within six months of the date of entry into force of that Act, which is exactly what it does with this Proposal for a Statute. So I would like to remind you of the tasks and objectives of the Competition Protection Agency which are also the content of this Statute. The Agency shall implement the Competition Protection Act and the State Aid Act aimed at ensuring equal conditions for all market participants, regardless of their size and market power, and to monitor state aid so that certain entrepreneurs are not in an unwarranted position on the market compared to those which do not receive such support from the State. The Agency’s tasks have been simplified to help the market function as well as possible. Effective competition needs to create conditions for economic growth based on efficient location and use of limited resources, environmental conservation, innovation, investment that contributes to this. The increase in the level of competition law and state aid, the strengthening of competition culture, the promotion of awareness of the benefits that citizens, consumers, taxpayers have, brings fair competition and control of the behaviour of entrepreneurs and of the state itself on the market, all of which is an indispensable part of the mission and even the reason for the existence of the Agency. The aim of the Agency is to ensure a modern approach to the implementation of the competition protection system, which focuses on preventive action and has been halted by practices that disrupt competition, harm consumers, and not on the protection of competitors. Ensure the implementation of the system of measures that will benefit our citizens, our entrepreneurs, our economy, of course our country as a whole. Effective competition ultimately provides a better offer, quality, lower prices of products and services, encourages innovation and ultimately affects economic growth. The Statute of the Agency is changed in most parts for the first time since December 2006, much more precisely including some new tasks, and the Agency’s jobs, firstly I mean saying criminal measures, more quality, more comprehensively defining the Agency’s activities, i.e. the Agency’s administrative and professional tasks, precisely defining the management of the Agency, the public work, the financing of the Agency, along with the other provisions contained in this Proposal for a Statute. For this reason, I will support the adoption of the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency and I will wish for the Presidents of the Council of the Agency to work even more successfully in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67580	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric to welcome you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Council with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. A colleague of the Hrelj said that this Statute was largely copied from the Law. It is true, but this is the consequence because the Law is good and detailed, and the Statute regulates what the Law does not cover, and since the Law almost covers everything, it is important, then it is the result of what it is but it does nothing to harm the Statute, however, makes it better. I would just draw attention to, when changing the Statute, it is not necessary but to bear in mind, to consider one possibility, as part of a more comprehensive amendment when it is said, that in Article 12(2), when it comes to conditions for council members, presidents and members of councils where it is said that, except that the candidate has completed a pre-graduate or graduate university study or an integrated undergraduate and graduate university study must meet the condition that he has passed a judicial exam, and for an economist specialist exam or a scientific degree of magistrate or a doctor of science. You don't know exactly what a specialist exam is. Economists do not have a specialist exam as lawyers have a judicial exam, so there can be wide and very large diapazone from specialist exams such as brokers taking specialist exams. Those who work in banks must take exams at the National Bank. Those who seek consent to work in the management of leasing companies must lay down, for insurance companies in HANFA. We have such a large diapases of specialist exams that we need to consider which specialist exam we are not going to be tax advisors or any other. It might be appropriate to consider organising an examination at the agency of a specialist exam or to define exactly what kind of specialist examination is a level of master of science, but then it is unnecessary to mention a doctor of science. Because if a magistrate is accepted then it is understood that a senior expert prepares, the more calling is also acceptable. But when the law is changed and the statutes are changed, then it will be easier to adapt to these new legal frameworks. But I would take this opportunity a little bit, and given the changes in the law and the powers that the agency has received, I appeal to the welfare of the Croatian economy, for the benefit of the Croatian future to make maximum use of your authority, to use all the instruments to protect competition. Because competition is a prerequisite for a healthy economy. Market competition is a presumption of entrepreneurial activity. If there is no market competition, if the market is not open, if it is not equal, if it is not available to all then there is no business activity, no economic activity, no economic growth, no employment sufficient, then everything, lacks enthusiasm, no energy so that the agency can do much to take advantage of all the possibilities given to it by law and that you do not allow the creation of new monopolist positions or new ruling positions on the market. Because they are doing evil to the Croatian economy. Monopolies and monopolistic positions are evil, economic cancer regardless of production, regardless of trade or regardless of trade and production, or service activities. And I urge you to make the most of this new opportunity now, and you know it, you know how to make excellent use of all the instruments at your disposal, and that these monopolist positions, these privileged positions must not affect the price. You can do it, you know how to do it. And yet we are witnessing that some entities in Croatia are using a ruling position and that prices are due to this ruling position. Nothing can justify the level of price of telephone impulses in Croatia, which is the most expensive in Europe. Every day we have dozens of new tariffs, and every day more expensive conversations. Every day, newer models get cheaper. 50% more cheaply advertised, I guess, by the way, that money opens the roads, and then they give the ad, and then all their paths are passing, and their accounts are getting bigger. The income and profit they make on income has no activity anywhere in the world that between 25 and 30% of the profits relative to the total income, without talking about how profit can be gained and increased by rationalising costs that have and unwarranted costs, irrational costs. But when it's covered with the price of impulse, it's easy to do business like that. Please don't allow such behavior, it's one boastful behavior. It's ignoring the market. It is the ignoring of a Croatian man, and yet they take it as a right to preach to the public of Croatian and Croatian citizens where they have become rich. I ask you never to repeat that they have the opportunity to buy ISKON again because they could never buy it or buy it, because it was already a concentration illegal. Croatia swims on water, Croatia chokes in water, and the industrial price of water is growing and higher every day, increasing. Local units and regional units of self-government all their irrationalities through communal compensation and the price of water are trying to calm down and transfer to citizens. Croatia is third in Europe by sources of drinking water and has one of the most expensive prices for water. This cannot be the result of an open competition, an open competition. It collects a liter of water from a liter of oil and a liter of milk. This simply cannot be the result of economic legality or market behaviour. That's why the fate of the Croatian economy is largely in your hands. Take all weapons into your own hands, maximise the penalties against those who violate market relations and use all of your own, all possible means so that they will never think about how boldly they treat the Croatian economy again. The maximum penalties can only be noted and can only be warned although the European Union does not use maximum penalties but we are far from the model of behaviour of Croatian entrepreneurs in relation to entrepreneurship in the world. And there is, there is so much evidence clear that they suggest that there are some cartels among the banks. Because apparently some banks want to finance only the state, and they don't want the Croatian economy, and so many things suggest that there is a cartel amongst the majors. Because these four majors hold their position so tightly that they do not allow new ones to be placed on the market, and that certainly keeps the price of the drugs much higher than it would have been if, that the market was fully functioning. I therefore support both you and this statute, but also the fight against abuse of ruling positions, which is ultimately reflected in prices and standards of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67582	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Maric, I fully support your presentation, but with this replica. I'll start at the end. You were talking about big drugs. Veledrogies are closely tied and their business is very closely related to the Ministry of Health. So a little bit on that side if you lit up that connection then you'd see what bush the rabbit is in. Furthermore, you said that a liter of water in Croatia, or cubic when it comes to companies owned by local self-government units, is very expensive. So let me just say as an example, let me add to your exposure, that a liter of milk is cheaper than a liter of this water that we're using, without strawberries and no raspberries and lemons. ... Wait a minute, no, no, I'm talking about the local. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm saying that there's a liter of milk on the market, so it's cheaper than a liter of water, and we know how to get a liter of milk and even a liter of oil like you said. Furthermore, the mobile operators you were talking about, and who make so much profit, and they keep us prodics and salty wits about successful business, and they were actually monopolists for a long time, and even today in some way, they have parent companies in other countries, whose members or actually foreign capital exhibits, and these parent companies in those countries are in financial problems, so I don't want to say in losses, while they make enormous profits on behalf of Croatian citizens, at the expense of Croatian consumers. Here's what I'm saying and I support you for, but here's what I'm adding to this part of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67584	Thank you. I would pray, we speak and the item of the agenda is the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency, and I would ask you, this already falls more within the scope of the Agency's work report, and this report will come very soon, to stick to this agenda anyway. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67585	Just for a minute, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, it is not a problem as you have stated the link between the Ministry of Health and the wholesaler. They're not connected, they're business, they're business, and it's normal to do business, and it's good to do business. But how the market will react, how the market will be regulated, it is already a matter and the Agency for the Protection of Competition. And the big drugstores won't let anyone else in. They're conditional. If someone shows up on the market, they say they won't pay their bill if they deliver to the fifth wholesaler. And they shared the market with each other. And they're great. But if we're just looking at who from the banks owned the majors, who from the former ministries during the time and former coalition authorities went to the directors of the wholesaler, then we can't bring this to the level of relations between today's Ministry of Health and grand drugstores.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67586	Thank you. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67587	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maric, I usually agree 100% with you, but this time 99% agrees, and this 1% refers to what you said about local self-government units, municipal companies, through the price of water, covering some expenses, expenses that I can't say drown, to display in some other real costs. I don't agree with that, because we know, you know, I come from a local self-government unit, where the price of water for households is 6 kuna, including all contributions to the state, including VAT for the 10 kuna economy, including all concessions, VAT and everything else. So we can't generally say there are cities, there are municipalities, there's a county where the price is double, triple, and even bigger, there's a situation, and I know them, and I know the person where they really drown some costs in the price of water, but generally it's not the case in Croatia, there are cities and municipalities that go with one specific, fair price to their citizens, here's all the luck I come from one such environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67588	I have to warn you again, it has nothing to do with the agenda. Please, it has nothing to do with the agenda. Stick to the agenda. Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67589	Then I'll make it even shorter, Mr. Vice President. From your angle and from the corner of the town of Pakrac you are right, absolutely, but I did not mean Pakrac, but I read the State Audit report so it is visible there what the results are, and I am glad that there is not only Pakrac, but we also listened to Benkovac take advantage of all European pre-accession funds, and that Zagreb is not even kuna. But generally speaking largely of irrationality is being transferred, and let's just look at Zagreb's work, and how much water it's accumulated in Zagreb over the last two years, and how many outstanding claims it has, we'll talk about when tomorrow... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67590	Thank you. And we have the last individual debate for this agenda item, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67591	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's because you've limited the debate to the statutes, I won't be a debt in the debate. It is clear that there were various monopolies in the former system, which did not respect competition. By creating a new Croatian state we have introduced, or we are introducing, and here we are still saying that we are going to introduce and rule out competition as someone said as a wheel of stoppers and economies, economies, as something that can then regulate prices on the market. In this respect, the Competition Protection Act was also adopted, which was then translated into the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency. Unfortunately, the political market, as Mr. Hrelja said, is not covered by this statute or the law, and it has it. I would like to list just a few examples which, according to the statutes of the Agency, are referred to in Article 8 of the Statute, and these are administrative matters of the Agency. Therefore, in Article 4, paragraph 4 of this Article 8 states that the abuses of the dominant position of entrepreneurs in breach of competition are to be established, the measures, conditions and deadlines for the elimination of the adverse effects of such conduct shall be laid down and shall impose an administrative penalty measure. I wish I were, I would say, if it were sanctions, real sanctions, administrative and criminal measures, I don't know exactly what the administrative and penalty measures are, but since we're so much willing to say here all together, I believe that all clubs are for this Statute and for this good they say the law, which I also confirm on the protection of competition, so that these administrative-punishment measures are, for example, for one trade chain that pays their employees half of their wages in cash, and half of the bonuses they have to spend exclusively in his stores. Is that part of your work and evaluation? Falling? I think it does. Furthermore, in order for you to carry out sanctions against someone who is in one institution like a ship's hospital there is a constant monopoly of construction works and I would say for a year, two, three days without being able to tell anyone else to enter a competition to get construction jobs from the hospital, or the Ministry of Health. Obviously, a monopoly. In order for you to sanction the bank where you're raising your credit, and she's leaving you with only one notary to go and verify how it's said... contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He just says that and that. And there's four in Slavonski Brod, but not exactly that. In order for you to sanction a bank that requires a loan guarantee to be secured exclusively by a single insurance company, life insurance. Is that a competition? Do you have a choice? So what does the agency do? Let's work this out once so people can go to the public notary, that they can freely spend their money wherever they want, where it's cheaper, where it's closer, where it's more favourable, where the availability is greater to choose it themselves. Here, I believe that, and we will support this Statute as we have supported and the Law on the Protection of Competition, so that not only does this kind of thing appear in Article 8(4), but that it is strictly sanctioned so that, finally, once again in this country that is seeking Europe and the European way of thinking, we apply sanctions such as those which are large and in traffic violations, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67592	Thank you. Does he? Yeah. Dear Olgica Spevec, President of the Competition Protection Council, final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I thank you for supporting this Statute, for all those who have recognized its importance for the work of the agency. In relation to the contents of the Statute and the questions raised by Mr Hrelja, I agree with him, namely, the law has, most of all, actually arranged everything regarding the work of the agency's part-round authority and now the question is what we could and should have put into the Statute. Two are legal approaches. One says one thing, the other says the other. Only the one we've opted for is actually something that we've been talking to and legal experts from the Office of Law, Government and the Ministry of Finance and others that we've come to have one whole act. Because if one part stays out, so no matter what we have the law, then the Statute still works. We therefore included in this Statute all those legal provisions governing the work of the Agency and some of them worked out. So, the truth is, I counted as much as you did when we did it, when I controlled how many repeatings there really are, but that's the only way you have a comprehensive complete document. And of course some of these things that you mentioned in Article 10 are governed by the State aid Act, but on the other hand, in this interaction with the competent authorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because we were also withdrawing the Statute you noticed, we had to do some compromises and include some things that were thought to be in the Statute. So the Statute is ultimately this one product of joint work. As to the future work of the agency, of course, it's not a topic, and I can't talk about it right now. This Statute and the law and the Statute give us powers under the law. So I repeat again within the law. And that's how the agency's gonna work. That's how she did it when it comes to telecommunications, phone operators, you have our decisions, you have decisions of the Administrative Court that confirm the decisions of the agency regarding many of these operators. You have decisions that are also related to water monopolies which are originally and not in the Agency's jurisdiction because, as you said yourself, units of local self-government set prices, but the agency has also acted with both the Ponique and the Istrian plumber and will act when it comes to price discrimination. As for the questions that Mr. Maras has raised, of course, we also know that we can and must be better. It is something that this Statute now allows us, but we have acted and so far, especially in the motor vehicle market and Tomić and PZ Auto and Lada and Hyundai and Citroen are all decisions made by this agency, and all have recognized the agency and repairers and distributors as the only public body in the Republic that deals with its problems so that we also had in that section concerning advice on how to act. So before making decisions, we had almost all the distributors at the agency and we talked about them. So, the agency definitely works. Of course, we can't know everything. Mr Grubisic cited questions where the agency should act, an article in the Statute said. It's from the law, of course. Administrative-punishment measures are sanctions that are penalties. The case you mentioned is prescribed, but after the procedure is carried out, of course. Unfortunately, in the banking sector, the agency has no jurisdiction because it's in the jurisdiction of the CNB, so here's my recommendation to talk about it when, all you mentioned is actually illegal. Definitely, and that should be sanctioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67594	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67595	We are crossing the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency, the Proposer of the Competition Protection Agency. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the parent parliamentary committee, I am voting in favour of the decision to confirm the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency. Let's please get involved and vote on the motion for a decision. Score. The motion for a decision to confirm the Statute was accepted by the majority of the 108 vote by, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67596	We move to the third item of the agenda, that is - Annual Report on State aid for 2009 The applicant of the Competition Protection Agency. This report was submitted by the Competition Protection Agency pursuant to Article 20. State aid laws. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honored Olga Spevec, President of the Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67597	Thank you very much, Vice President. We now have little to do with the problem of state aid which is very important in Croatia for a number of reasons. So, we have produced an annual report on state aid under Article 20 of the State Aid Act and are obliged to deliver it to the Croatian Parliament and, on the other hand, in accordance with the SAA and the European Commission. This Annual Report contains an overview of the state aid granted in 2009 as well as revised support data allocated in 2007 and 2008, and all data are processed in accordance with the State Aid Act and the European Union methodology to which we are committed by signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The report of certain statistics was prepared on the basis of data provided by state aid providers to the Agency, so it is not the Agency that provides State support to it with a report based on data provided by state authorities, agencies, funds and units of regional and local self-government. Therefore, we can conclude, the data show that in 2009 state support in the Republic of Croatia amounted to 8.7 billion kuna and is less than 9% compared to 2008. The share of total support in the gross domestic product was reduced by around 7%, which amounted to 2009. 2.6%. The indicator of the reduction in the aid trend is the fact that, according to employees in the Republic of Croatia, state aid amounted to around 5,800 kuna in 2009, which is about 400 kuna less than in 2008. However, if we know that the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia in 2009 amounted to around 5300 kuna, it turns out that every employee in our country has given some 500 kunas more for state support than its average salary. Each citizen of the Republic of Croatia has given about 2,000 kuna for state support. A more detailed analysis of the size and structure of the support in 2009 shows that by excluding agriculture and transport, the support amounted to 3.7 billion kuna in that year, which is 17% less in the previous year and the share of such support in GDP is 1.1%. This information is very important because this data compares the level of support in Croatia and the European Union. I also think it is important to mention that unlike other support for support in agriculture and fisheries, there has been a steady trend in growth since 2004 and in 2009 reached a level of 3.7 billion kuna and a share in the total support of 42%. Data from the 2009 Report continue to point to the prevailing share of sectoral support, which, apart from those agriculture and fisheries, focus on only a few sectors. And these are sales 1.3 billion kuna, shipbuilding 1.2 billion kuna, Croatian radiotelevision 1.1 billion kuna. The rest of the billion and 400 kuna actually goes to all other sectors and for all other purposes and it is actually a real indicator of the level of support in the Republic of Croatia. It is a positive fact that sectoral support, which I mentioned, except for agriculture that is constantly growing by 20% than in 2008, and even 43% compared to 2007. Support for horizontal objectives, therefore those supported by the state's support for innovation, research and development, employment, growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, environmental protection, etc. in 2009 amounted to 658 million kuna. Horizontal support, as we know, is support that contributes to increasing exports, strengthen the competitiveness of the domestic economy and thus create new jobs, encourage entrepreneurs to increase productivity, comply with the highest standards of environmental protection, improve and not just a means of survival on the market, such as most sectoral support, and should therefore be given much more. Compared to the previous year, however, a slightly smaller amount of aid was allocated in 2009, but given the overall reduction in support, the share of these aids was increased in total support. At the same time, regional support was increased to around 320 million kuna, local support at 220 million kuna, and together they amounted to, horizontal, regional, local, around a billion and 200 million, and their share of total support is 14% and 28%, respectively, if we exclude agriculture, fishing and transport. Of course, this is still too little, especially if we are comparing ourselves with EU Member States where horizontal support is made in some countries, all support or their dominant share of around 70% of EU support is meant for horizontal objectives. Therefore, the still predominantly difficult sectoral support structure says that the existing support policy must change, i.e. it cannot have a more significant impact on the increase in exports, change in the structure of exports, the strengthening of the Croatian economy and the strengthening of its competitiveness. Therefore, for years, the Agency has in some way been the aim of these reports to point out that we are in a position to warn that the need to change such a policy and that even more consistently restructure those sectors of industry which, despite the support and support of the state, are not able to provide assumptions for long-term sustainable market business, so that business without sectoral support that helps the day-to-day survival on the market. So, on the other hand, as it comes from this data that I have cited, it is necessary to increase the support that is intended to remove so-called. Market failures or those aided by the state where the market cannot give effect, I said horizontal support. Otherwise, that part of the Croatian industry that has good export performance has a chance in many markets such as wood industry, metal or tourism will be cut off from competition from other countries where horizontal support is a legitimate and encouraging part of industrial policy. Only one project in Sweden provides 55m euros in support of research and development. Just one project. In other words, the aim should be to reduce taxpayers' funds with as little negative impact on competition as possible, but also with the help of the Croatian economy to be more successful and competitive. In creating a more efficient and accessible support system, it is necessary to look at it through the optimization of the support provider. Namely, as this report shows, and you also have a table in the report in Croatia there are a large number of support providers. At the state level alone, there are slightly more than 15 of them, resulting in a waste of funds, increasing the cost of granting support, both on the side of the state and on the side of the users who must be able to manage in that forest, and thus, the effectiveness of the aid is at stake. At the same time, the support providers should, in particular, focus more attention on the control of the dedicated use of the resources granted to support users or establish a system for better monitoring of the effects and dedicated spending of the support granted under certain programmes. In conclusion, the establishment and implementation of the State aid policy is in the jurisdiction of the State authorities of the support providers, not of this agency. However, starting from the common interest of increasing the competitiveness of the domestic economy on the one hand, and limited resources on the other, it is evident that future support policies must be more clearly focused on the pre-defined objectives and priorities with effective implementation and control of the allocation of support and ultimately must be a less burden for all taxpayers. Namely, when all support is granted, two things must be kept in mind. First of all, it is the means resulting from the work of the best and most efficient part of the Croatian economy, the funds that we raise in the budgets, as well as the funds of Croatian citizens, of all Croatian citizens. The more you take each other, the less you can invest in new technologies, new products and new markets and what is most important in new employment. On the other hand, the more it is given for state support, the less it remains for social policy and other social needs. Therefore, when designing a policy or support policy, all efforts should be taken in order to bring about in practice an approach that promotes as little as possible and as high-quality and better targeted support as possible. The data contained in this report show that every year support providers are increasingly following such a policy, more support programmes aimed at horizontal objectives that stimulate growth, and less sectoral and individual support, I have just documented this data. A growing number of local and regional self-government units are participating in the drafting of this report and reporting to the agency with the need to help them adapt their support programmes. The overall level and share of support in GDP also decreased. We therefore hope that the following support reports will also show progress in those areas relating to the need to improve the support structure, reduce the number of support providers and more control of the spending and measurement of the effects of the aid granted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67598	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67599	Dear Mr. Vice President, representatives of the agency, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. 8.7 billion kuna or, more specifically, 8 billion 691 million kuna from the Republic of Croatia's budget last year went to support. It is 7.2% of the RS budget or 2.61% of the gross social product. The extremely large funds therefore more than 7% of the budget went to support and therefore this is a very important topic to discuss seriously. Most of these aids were realised through subsidies, even 80 percent went through subsidies. So it's important that we discuss this today because it's the money of all of us, not those who give, but all of us, it's the money of the citizens of this country and it's important to see where they went, why they went and how they spent the effects of it. When I talk about this report, we can talk in two ways. It is one thing to talk only about the report as a nomotechnical document that is before us and the other to talk in general about support in the support policy implemented in the Republic of Croatia. As regards the very report submitted by the Agency, it has little to object to, because it was drawn up under the Stabilisation Agreement signed by the Republic of Croatia and there are statistics as they are. But there was a lot to say about the support policy itself and what was happening in that segment. So, the report finds the situation as it was realised and as the support providers are mostly the ministries, as they did. So, I think we should talk about both. So let's see if this report is just like a report in terms of statistics and nomotechnics, but let's see what kind of support policy was in the Republic of Croatia. What's important about support is that it's always seen, so to whom it's given, what it's given, how much it's given, and what the effects of what it's given are. Without an analysis of these 4 elements, it is difficult to answer at all the questions about how support policy is and how to implement support in the days and they have said very significant 8.7 billion. This covers only those support for which the Agency provides data, not for those aid granted by the State in the case of infrastructure or certain other elements which do not fall under support, but only considered in a narrow sense to support how the law treats it. When we look at the data that has been given, we see that some of the data in the report is actually a little bit and aproximative because some institutions, some institutions, are not listed which, the subjects did not give complete information on how much support was given and were then done as it is said on the basis of an estimate of the amount. I ask the question how is it possible that someone who gives support so much credit that he dares not give a single piece of information about who he has given and how much support he has given. I think it has to be sanctioned, and the reports show that some of them didn't give it up to date or didn't give it at all. It's like they're giving their money, not the money of all of us, not the money of the citizens of this country, and then I can deal with it in a college way, so I want to file a report, I want to give the information, or I won't give the information. That's what I think is absolutely inadmissible, and here I think it must be, and in the report, which are the subjects who didn't give the data and that they are properly sanctioned and that they are called here in this highest house. I'll try to say something about two segments of support, one about agriculture, something about industry and shipbuilding. In the case of agriculture and fisheries, the report states that they are not detailedly elaborated, in detail, as this is not subject to the State aid Act. True, but the most basic data are listed. You see, this is how the area of subsidies in agriculture and fisheries is important, mainly for agriculture because almost half of the subsidies that have been given or supported are actually given to agriculture, somewhere around 42% or 3.6 billion kuna. Only agricultural support grew in 2009 and 2008 respectively, unlike all others where it fell. That is why it is important to say what is the word, and most of these support went just as a subsidy. What are the results of these support we see every day and we see from the data. Only Croatia produces enough when it comes to agriculture of wheat, honey and mandarin. Of the 30 products that fall into that category, we don't produce anything enough for our own purposes, let alone export. Only wheat, honey and mandarin. I wish there was milk, so we could say it's honey and milk, but there's no milk, and there's no milk, and there's no milk missing. So we don't produce from vegetable cultures as much as we need, and we give incentives to big ones. Not even potatoes, only if we're not treating potatoes as an American product yet, because it came from there a few centuries ago, but everyone adopted them and the products, so we could finally at least produce as much as we need. Understandably, there are some things we can't do, we can't grow bananas, but we can't grow peaches or pears and we can't meet 40% of our needs. That's another question. It speaks of how simple the support policy is and what its effects are. So, we don't produce anything enough, we don't produce any vegetable culture, we don't produce any meat as much as we need, and we separate from budget 3.7, almost 4 billion kuna for support in agriculture. So our goal is, I guess the aim of the support is to have enough products, to stimulate those who will produce more, to produce for our own needs enough, so if necessary, and if possible to take some of that out. Why is that? Because there's simply not enough control of the support user. So we're not against support, save God. Support needs to be given, but it is also more important to take care of what is spent and how support is spent and how those who receive support are controlled. People say there are a lot of those who get support for certain productions, get support, and whether products or not produce it is less important or no one controls it. So we need to encourage whoever produces, not whoever reports that they're going to produce something. But obviously, those who provide support do not care about it, and they say mostly to the ministry and that it is irresponsible behavior and that in this way both the Ministry and the Government generally treats it as something that is in some way the world of cows because the support does not need to be touched because they are... It is true, but it is also necessary to control how these support is spent and what the effects are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For some support business, it ends with the adoption of the budget and a budget house is determined how much it goes for support and that they are divided, and I think that job is just beginning. When an asset is provided in the budget, when you see how much it is, it is not done and when it is divided, then the support business begins to see how it is spent and what the effects of it are. That hasn't been enough so far. When it comes to industry, shipbuilding, etc., we can talk about two types of support conditions, those that the state gives to "their own", therefore to companies in which the state has a majority share and to those in which the state has no ownership stake. They're both interesting. Where the state has a majority stake, it is necessary to see the effects of this and why it is given, whether these funds have been dumped or invested in something that has produced results. And when it comes to those, companies, those entrepreneurs where the state gives support in one way or another, and where there is no equity, it is simply to see why it is given, not this, whether it is suitable or not. What is missing in this report is difficult to get into its details, which is to see how much of a business entity has actually received support. It's not listed anywhere, it's listed in all these elements, all of the segments indicate that they got the most you, you, you, and you, but you don't agree how much someone got, except for the shipbuilding I mean somewhere in the footnote of this report, on one page. Therefore, for others, it does not specify how much of these funds are actually received, and this is a very important information to see, therefore, not a total of how much the sector has received but how much of the individual entity has received these money. I don't know if there's any reason to hide it, there's no reason, and if there is, it can't really be them. Here I say the situation somewhat ambivalent because it discusses the Agency's report with the Agency's lack of responsibility for the support policy, what happened in support last year and otherwise for all years. The agency is only there to sum up these results, to present it to us, but to support policy and how they were primarily responsible for the Government and its ministries, which mainly by these means and deployed. Did the Agency get that information from the ministries, as far as anyone got it I don't know, but in any case, if you didn't have to ask them, if you really should have put them in to see how much who, which subject you individually got. In support of course they are also very large guarantees, they are bigger than subsidies and in last year, 2009, already before, so a total of 9.3 billion guarantees by the public sector, of which about 2.6 billion can be considered support. So now we will consider only those guarantees that are primarily treated as support, not those that are given by some market principles or for monitoring the infrastructure we put aside. So, just the ones that are being supported. It shows, above all, how much of the risk to the budget, for all the guarantees that are given, whether these guarantees will be activated. That's the most important thing when it's given a guarantee. The guarantee should be given to help the business entity to work, but not to transfer all responsibility at the end of the budget, to the risk of the guarantee. When we look at the shipbuilding, we see that these support mainly ended up as an absolute risk to the budget. So, in the shipbuilding, there's an 80% risk rate. So, for the guaranteed issue, 10% were activated, and only 20% of the business entities they got were solving from their own business. And what are the effects of all these guarantees and support? Supports should be given when it comes to shipbuilding. The only thing that can be given is for recovery and restructuring. For years, support has been provided, and shipyards have neither been rehabilitated nor been restructured. Where the money is given, or where it is spent, is a big question. It's business to spend as much as you want. You don't have to, so you can spend as much as you want, you don't have to be rational, buy expensive, pay the subcontractor expensive, pay first of all management that's enormous. We remember that in a shipyard on May 3rd, salaries were members of the administration somewhere around, net wages of about 70,000 kuna. So, behavior was pretty irrational, because whoever gave it didn't even ask for rational behavior. So, for such irresponsible and irrational behavior, it is not only those who have received support but also those who have given them support but who have not controlled what they are. So, in the report itself, it's hard to blame itself as some kind of nomotechnical document as a sum of statistics, except what I said, and that's that there's no such data as to how much support is given individually, which is very important. But the policy of support that was implemented can be very resentful, it was bad. There, therefore, does not see what the effects of these support are. I said in agriculture each one of those great support, and in the end we are unable to eat and produce food for ourselves, in shipbuilding, etc. So obviously, the support policy was bad for which it was not borne by the agency, but by the government and its ministries that gave it. Therefore, there is a need to advocate for a different policy of support that will be responsible, which will ensure employment, which will ensure greater production, which will ensure that our economy is more competitive, of course not taking account of the EU standards and EU regulations that we have accepted, and see how much it can be done through horizontal support without prejudice to competitiveness when it comes to exports. But in any case, take more care of the effects of the support provided. No account has been taken of that so far. Thus, as the resources of these citizens were irresponsibly available in many segments, it was also available in support. And I hope that when the more responsible government comes, it will be more responsible and will be treated accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67600	Thank you. In the name of the HDZ Club, we have an incorrect claim. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Jelusic, speaking of support in agriculture, said those who support that they don't care after being with these aids and that there is no control at all. It's an incorrect colleague, Jelusic. I come from the middle where it's really intense agricultural production. We're the best cattlemen in Croatia, and he's got a lot of control. I have witnessed situations that many people have had severe sanctions and that there are certain sure efforts in that area. The support in agriculture you said had no effect. There is, of course. Supports have improved agriculture in a certain way. This also shows the production of milk under these operational programmes, etc. It is that agriculture needs to continue its efforts, of course, to continue its efforts to improve and create it competitive. But of course this quote of yours doesn't stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67602	We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Kreso Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. We also discussed the Statute of the Agency earlier, and we found that the agency is an independent and independent state institution, i.e. an institution that exercises public authority, and we said that these duties and powers are in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Competition and the Law on State Support. Therefore, for us, when it comes to this topic of the agenda, it is relevant to the State aid Act, which as soon as possible regulates the conditions and rules for the approval of State aid implementation and recovery control, all for the purpose of implementing the internationally recognised commitments of the Republic of Croatia under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed by the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, or European Communities. Furthermore, the law clearly defines the entities of application, i.e. the providers and the users of the support. State aid, which distinguishes those State aids which are in accordance with this law from those State aids which are not in accordance with the law. The responsibility of the Competition Protection Agency and its part-time work in relation to support has also been defined. Finally, the procedure for granting control of the implementation and recovery of state aid was also prescribed. As regards the competence of the Competition Protection Agency, it is important to stress that, in accordance with Article 5 of the Law, the Agency is in charge of approving, or it approves and oversees the implementation of State aid and requires the reimbursement of those aids if they are given or used against the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia and contrary to the Support Act. Therefore, the Agency for the Protection of Competition in the Implementation of State Aid Law plays an extremely significant and responsible role in view of the fact that no law, nor any other act containing State support or which prescribes state aid, can be adopted or adopted without prior binding opinion or approval of the Agency. The Annual Report on State aid for 2009 which lies ahead of us of the Competition Protection Agency has already been submitted to the Croatian Parliament for adoption by the President and the President of the Council on the basis of Article 20. State aid laws. However, it is necessary to say that this obligation, as well as the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, is an obligation. It is a general impression that it is a document which is comprehensive, quality and professionally produced, and very educational on one hand, which can also be said about all the materials that we have received from the agency in the past period, and a document in which it shows in a revised and systematic manner the matter which has been processed. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of the 2009 State Support Report, with certain findings and suggestions to be made in view of the indicators and trends contained in the report in question. The 2009 State aid report contains accurate data on all State aid granted during the reporting year, as well as revised support data for 2007 and 2008. This approach in making the report makes it easier for all of us to see positive, but also for those negative trends. It is also important to point out that this report is drawn up according to the methodology used in the European Union in drawing up similar documents. So the report gives us its kind of inventory of state aid granted over the past 3 years, noting that for the last reporting year this analysis is much more detailed, which is understandable since the report itself refers to that year. In view of the fact that the Agency's urgency in preparing the report, as well as its delivery to the Croatian Assembly for adoption, depends directly on the urgency and opportunities of the support provider for timely delivery of information on its activities, and on their mutual cooperation, so the cooperation between the Agency and the Support Providers, we use this opportunity to call on the Agency, but also all support providers at our country level for future quality cooperation, and all in order, because this will certainly contribute to the fact that this report is delivered to the Croatian Assembly within a more appropriate time frame. When it comes to state aid, we from the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives think it is necessary to welcome all the positive trends that are primarily reflected in the reduction of the overall level of support over the past few years. According to the report, a total of 8.7 billion kuna of state aid was allocated during 2009, which is about 9% or 870 million kuna less than in the previous year, i.e. by as much as 23 or 2.6 billion kuna compared to 2007. The same situation is when we observe the share of total state aid in the gross domestic product, which was reduced from 3.59 in 2007 to 2.61 in 2009, representing a 27.3% drop. It is also necessary to say that the amount of support per employee, and the amount of support per capita, also over the past few years, have a tendency to keep falling. It is particularly important to stress that the share of sectoral support in total support is constantly and significant, and the fact that their nominal amount compared to 2007 is almost halved, i.e. it has been reduced by 44%. These support to only certain sectors or entrepreneurs in 2009 amounted to around 3.8 billion kuna. In view of the fact that sectoral support can have a more significant impact on the distortion of market relations, it should also be said that it was granted under specific rules. We also want to point out certain modest but positive movements in horizontal and regional support and their share in the structure of total support. So what I'm saying is that their share in the total support structure has increased in the last few years, however, it should also be said that, above all, this is the result that the sectoral support has been significantly reduced, and hence the share of horizontal support has been slightly increased compared to previous years. However, we cannot be satisfied in this segment, especially if we are comparing ourselves with the Member States of the European Union, where horizontal support is involved, if we look on average with as much as 84% in the overall support of industry and services, and the remaining 16% of the waste on sectoral support. In our case, this relationship is completely different, so sectoral support accounts for about 86% of the total support for industry and services, while the remaining 24% is targeted for horizontal needs and regional development around 20%, and for local support at around 4%. For this reason, and for the reason that the existing system of support dominated by sectoral support is not able to have a more significant impact on the change in economic structure, on the increase in exports and on overall economic progress, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club considers it necessary to gradually and with greater determination finally start to change the approach to the support policy. I think in this part of it, the president of the council said a lot. This means, on the one hand, the restructuring of those sectors of industry which, despite state support, are unable to provide assumptions about sustainable market business, thus gradually reducing the share of sectoral support, and, on the other hand, a significant increase in support for the horizontal objectives, such as research and development, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, employment, education, improvement, environmental protection, etc., etc. Since support for agriculture and fisheries is not in the jurisdiction of the Competition Protection Agency, this opportunity will clearly mention as information an indicator that speaks of the constant growth of support for agriculture and fisheries in the last 6 years, and the fact that they account for around 42% of the total state aid. This indicator, despite the increasing possibilities, points to the fact that the Croatian state, that the care of our farmers is constant and unquestionable. I don't think there's a need to expand the debate on this agenda on support for agriculture, because we hope and hope to have the opportunity to discuss these support as a special topic. Finally, like the countries of the European Union during 2009, in support of horizontal objectives, and in the context of its financial opportunities to mitigate the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis, Croatia directed almost something towards the economy slightly less than 100 million kuna. When we compare ourselves with the countries of the European Union and our environment, these funds are much smaller than those of the European Union countries, but we should also take into account the fact that the country of the European Union has largely directed these funds towards the recovery of its financial sectors, which, fortunately, for the sake of timely interventions that we had at our country level, we did not have that need. Here, before I conclude, I would say that in the work I would agree with Mr Jelusic's debate on control mechanisms, which in a certain part of the support really are not what it should be, and I think that future support providers must also work in that part. But I'd also say we can't find out that the support policy in the previous years was very bad. It is the same as it was in 2000, both in 2001 and 2002, but we think, I agree with it that it is not good and should be changed in the future. At the end of the team of HDZ representatives, the 2009 Annual Report on State aid is considered an objective review of the state aid situation offered to us by a series of useful information. We are also convinced that this information will be of great benefit to the support providers in creating a future state aid policy that must simply be in the role of realising the economic recovery programme and strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67604	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS-HSU club, the esteemed representative Zlatko Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Competition Protection Council with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. As Mrs Spevec pointed out, this 2009 State aid report is a certain statistic and, as a colleague from the HDZ Club said, an objective reflection of the situation and that is correct. This report is really an objective reflection of the state of affairs, an objective reflection of the conduct of economic industrial policy, an objective reflection of the conduct of agricultural policy, an objective reflection of everything that has been happening in this country's leadership, and, of course, that we have a situation that says that our overall support is falling which is understandable. Why? Not because we want to, but we just put ourselves in a situation that we just can't do it anymore. Secondly, the share of support in GDP is falling, too, not because we want to, but because almost certainly in times we haven't done it. So it's because of the inaction. And the fact that every employee in this country for support stands out 5 800 kuna. One month's salary or, as said more precisely 500 kuna, more than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, the fact that our share of support in agriculture is growing. All of this justifies that we at the HNS-HSU club are also good, given the policy-making towards agriculture and the village, but that this is also harmful to farmers, that this is harmful to the alternative economy is harmful. I'll tell you why and why later. Secondly, for industry and services, we go, for agriculture goes 42.24% - 3 billion 600; for industry and services 5 billion, a total of 8 billion. But something to talk about, something that needs to be pointed out specifically, which is that of this group that goes to our industry and services 5 billion only 658 million is leaving for so-called. horizontal targets, and for specific sectors or sectoral policy 3 billion and 800, regional support 319 million and local support 218 million. The fact is that, with help, support is a very important instrument in the management of economic industrial policy and the fact that, in that segment where they give the greatest effect, these horizontal objectives are, and in the horizontal objectives according to these aids listed here, a research on innovation is taking place in this report compared to 2008 from 200 million to 140 million in 2009; environmental protection and energy conservation, however, is growing from 337 million in 2008 to 64 million in 2009. But it's a negligible amount. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs from 172 to 228 are growing, but in total participation is only 2.63%. Employment in 2007 almost 200 million, 2008. 136 million, and in 2009 42 million. Three times less than a year before the employment support. And one newspaper, which is certainly good, is 93 million that went for support in some sectors given the financial crisis. EU practice is quite different. The EU practice is 84% for these horizontal support, with 84% for horizontal support and only 16% for sectoral support. With us for horizontals when we include both regional and local support is 14%. Either better put in place to support the economy and industry or part of the support to boost the competitiveness of the economy and industry are 10 times less in relations than in Europe. Or if we applied the system of thinking and behaviour and leading and planning Europe to our example of support that would have a direct impact on development and the opening of competitiveness, on raising competitiveness, raising economic efficiency, new jobs, increasing productivity efficiency would not be 658 million but would be 6 billion, 10 times higher, only if we used that logic. Normally, to use that logic is to make a whole series of advances before and one key problem, and when we speak of all of us, we are aware that these support that is being paid, that they are primarily aimed at solving the damages caused by inaction. Were all these years of shipbuilding support supposed to be in that amount or could they have been less? Were they supposed to be in agriculture that amount or were they supposed to be less? A whole series of activities, a whole series of economic sectors that we can talk about quite safely, that a different policy was conducted, that it was run in one designed, organised way by a more efficient way, quite certain that the space that is now going into this sectoral support would be directed towards a space that raises our overall competitiveness. Therefore, rather than investing in development, rather than investing in aid efficiency, and I will say once again what the results of all the employees' redistribution in the amount of 5 thousand 800 kuna for 2009 are for buying social peace and solving our inefficientness. The second thing we want to ask the promoters. Namely, this report is required by the Agency to deliver to the Croatian Assembly pursuant to Article 20. The State aid Act, also based on Article 70 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is to be considered compatible with the internal market. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Communities is due to be delivered to the European Commission, on the 5 of this report states that a large number of support providers are not able to provide data on the actual aid granted before the middle and the second half of the year. For example, in 2010, most of this data was delivered to the Agency only in October, while some units of local and regional (regional) self-government provided the requested data at all. The 2009 Annual Report showed all state support for which data providers provided data. Now our question. Who didn't deliver that information? I think we're all interested in the name and last name. I ask, for those of you who read and for you who know. Exactly for those of you who read and for those of you who know, I ask. And two. What's to be done that doesn't happen anymore? And third, you think this is funny. But I'm asking the president of the agency. What report does it send to the European Commission? How do we show our seriousness? That's funny to you. What kind of report are we sending to the European Commission? What message are we sending to the European Commission? And what's the suggestion that this isn't happening anymore? We've heard from the president of the agency that we have too many support providers. And we listen to it every year. It is true that we have too many support providers, it is true that there is no synergy, that about these support from individual ministers, individual support providers based on our common money are building their political position, political future, political survival. That's true, especially in sectoral support. However, whether it is our responsibility to employees who pay one salary each year for support. What is the synergy of these support and synergy of pre-accession funds? At least in that section of pre-accession funds you claim to have been very well used, transport, environmental protection, regional competitiveness. What synergy of these support and future structural and cohesion funds, raising the competitiveness of the economy, raising the competitiveness of our regions? We at the HNS and HSU club think we should discuss it, because just a report as statistics on something that happened, we'll accept. But the very attitude towards our future development that we finance with huge money and these support are in the function of it, definitely for us at the HNS and HSU club is unacceptable and we believe that such support is being given to someone, but all of us together as a community, as a state, are losing something that needs to be changed and we expect the Government of the Republic of Croatia to apply it, but also that this significant role of its own is ultimately the agency's obligation to, in addition to statistics, make very concrete proposals with possible concrete solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67606	Thank you. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First is Honorable Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting the incorrect quote from my colleague, Korajevic, who said that this is exactly the kind of support that is causing huge damage to agriculture. Well, a esteemed colleague is an incorrect allegation. It is incorrect because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has just provided 5 billion kuna support for agriculture, but of course, in your rhetoric when you say it feels that exactly the dissatisfaction of these individual farmers is manifested through the policy of certain political parties that support those small producers to say they are dissatisfied. Well, if it wasn't for this much support, what kind of peasant rebellion would it be if we could call her that? She'd be 10 times bigger. But the real agriculture producers didn't even go out on the road, but those who were manipulated by certain parties' policies, and we know which parties supported these very people to go out on the road.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67608	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67609	That's the only reason and that's the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67610	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67611	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I noticed, too, from my colleague, that this incorrect assumption that the support in agriculture has done harm. It is not true, I am a colleague of Jelusic, but in order to correct it even though I renamed him, I apologize to him this time, and I also said incorrectly absolutely because the support in agriculture itself has contributed to the production of milk since 2003 by 170 million liters. Well, over 500 modern stables have been made that have also improved. You noticed it yourself, and you said it would contribute to competitiveness. The point is that these support has contributed to competitiveness. I mean, it's not enough, but it's supposed to put extra effort into that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67612	Thank you. And the correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, it is incorrect that this material has not been published by anyone who has not submitted the reports. All state institutions delivered it, but it was not delivered by units of local self-government, but when something is criticised then material needs to be read first, and perhaps when we are discussing state aid perhaps a debate should be opened in this home and the structure of these supports. Then we might open up some questions that we would likely have to, and perhaps one day we'll have to reach a political consensus. Therefore, on page 56, colleague Koračević writes precisely the list of units of local self-government. Mrs. Pusic, I wasn't correcting you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67614	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. It is the turn of the HSS club, distinguished representative Boris Klemenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. The 2009 Annual State Aid Report contains a detailed overview of the State aid granted in 2009 as well as the support data allocated in 2007. In 2008 which were processed in accordance with the Law and the methodology prescribed by law and regulations adopted under this Act. In addition to the information on the State aid granted, the legal basis summary was presented on the basis of which State aid was granted and the list of decisions taken by the Agency in 2009. This report also shows data on aids of small value which are not considered State aid within the meaning of the law, because due to a small amount, they cannot affect trade between the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Croatia and are not subject to supervision by the Agency, but are also an important indicator of the state's activities in helping certain economic sectors. This report also presents data on the state aid granted at the level of units of local and regional and regional self-government. The 2009 report compared with last year's audited data on the support granted in 2007, and the most significant differences concern no support for shipbuilding, employment and regional support. In the case of shipbuilding support, this report applied a different methodology of calculating the support contained in the State guarantees issued, while the support granted under the Free Zones Act, the Hill and Mountain Areas Act, the Law on Areas of Specific State Care and the Law on Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar are no longer included in regional support but constitute support of small value as explicitly governed by the provisions of the laws mentioned. Based on data on tax relief provided by the Ministry of Finance, data on employment support have also been corrected. In particular, the report shows support for certain sectors for agriculture and fisheries and support for industry and services. Support for agriculture and fisheries has not been analysed in detail because they are not subject to the State aid Act, i.e. the supervision of this Agency, are already governed by specific legislation and are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Support for industry and services has been shown as support for horizontal objectives, sectoral support, support for regional development and support granted locally by local and regional self-government units. The detailed allocation of support within a group of horizontal and sectoral objectives has also been demonstrated. Although, in accordance with the methodology of showing support to the European Union, regional support is presented in the context of the horizontal objectives of this report, these support are presented separately in order to enable insight into the support aimed at ensuring the uniform regional development of the Republic of Croatia. The aid granted by local and regional self-government units is also shown separately in order to gain insight into the amounts and purposes of these local support. Support for horizontal objectives is intended to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, research and development, innovation, environmental protection and energy savings, investment through risk capital, recovery and restructuring of entrepreneurs in difficulty and employment and training. This report shows in particular the support of small value that is not considered aid within the meaning of the law. As we have said, these amounts cannot distort trade relations between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union but the fact remains that a large number of donors are based on these aids actually granted and as significant budgetary resources. Supports are granted through different support instruments, and the most significant ones are, I will list only some, subsidies, tax exemptions, exemptions, tax exemptions and contributions, reliefs and write-offs to state creditors, equity shares, favourable loans and calculate guarantees support. Supports in 2009 in the Republic of Croatia, as we had the opportunity to hear, amounted to 8 billion 691 million kuna, down by 9.1% compared to 2008. At the same time, the share of total support in GDP was reduced in 2009 compared to 2008 and was 2.61% while in 2008 it was 2.79%. In 2009, there was a reduction in the total amount of aid granted in relation to the past 2008 amounting to 870 million kuna, resulting in the largest reduction in sectoral aid, in particular those granted to the shipbuilding sector, amounting to 739 million kuna, and reduced support for resolution and restructuring by 72 million kuna, while support in the transport sector was reduced by 143 million kuna. Support granted to the economy without agriculture and fishing and transport, under transport we think both land and air and maritime, in 2009 amounted to 3 billion 711 million kuna, which is 17.41% lower than aid allocated in 2008 and 43.88% less compared to 2007. As in the previous 2008 and 2009 the trend of the reduction of aid was continued, except for the support of agriculture and fisheries, which are 1.54% and 55.9 million kuna respectively, respectively, compared to 2008. A particular drop in aid has been reported in the industry and services sector for 925.9 million kuna and 15.57% respectively. In the industry and services sector, support for certain sectors continues to prevail in 2009. In fact, sector support amounted to 3 billion 824 million kuna, which accounts for 44% of the total aid granted. However, there is a significant reduction in these aids compared to 2008 by almost 970 million kuna and 20.24% respectively. It is particularly pleased to note the increase in 2009 compared to 2008 in the total amount of 251 million kuna, which record support for environmental protection and energy conservation, as well as for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Last year, support has also been granted, i.e. it has already passed, to support the real sector's funding approach during the global economic crisis of 93.6 million kuna. As part of the horizontal support category, support in the research, development and innovation sector has been reduced. The problem of training and employment as well as support in culture. Regional support granted in 2009 amounting to 319 million kunas is more by 2.73% than in 2008 when it amounted to 310 million kuna. A continuous increase in their share of total aids from 3.22% in 2007 to 3.25% in 2008 was also observed, and 3.67% in 2009 was pooled in this report. Regional support has been granted to the greatest extent by the Investment Encouragement Act, then for the financing of certain target groups such as textile and leather industries, and for the development of broadband internet access infrastructure. In 2009 agricultural and fisheries support amounted to 3 billion kunas, i.e. 55.9 million kunas more than in 2008, which totals more than 1.54%. A very important part of the Croatian economy is made up of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who, especially during the global economic crisis, find funding sources hard to find. For this reason, a significant part of the support system constitutes support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who amounted to 228 million kuna in 2009. By observing the three-year period, support for small and medium-sized enterprises has been shown to continue to grow, and to take up an increasing share of support for the horizontal objectives. We can discuss whether we are in absolute terms satisfied with these millions of kunas that have been allocated through support to small and medium enterprises. However, it is encouraging that it grows year after year. Most of the small and medium-sized enterprises in 2009 were granted subsidy support amounting to EUR 208 million, while the remaining amount of aid of 19 and a half million was granted in the form of favourable loans. The subsidies were largely awarded by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Finally, although there are clear rules and regulations governing the granting of support in both the European Union and the Republic of Croatia, it is clear that state support can be an extremely strong and important instrument for the economic or industrial policy of each country. The largest evidence is the information on the aid granted by the European Union and its Member States in the previous two years to their economy in the battle against the financial and economic crisis, i.e. the entire sectors, entrepreneurs who have been rehabilitated and restructured precisely thanks to the aid granted. At the same time, it is clear that rules and regulations are also not an obstacle to helping the economy if there is a quality prepared and long-term sustainable support programmes that can justify the funds provided in the form of support to the economy. And eventually, the Croatian Peasant Party club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67616	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the agency. The 2009 Annual Report on State aids is correctly written, very informatively, and with all the comparisons for 2007 and 2008 so it is a very transparent report from which a lot can be read. What I'm saying is, although it's written here under the star that the agency is not engaged in agricultural support, and that's what's written, and that's the amount of support and in agriculture obtained from the competent ministries, so the table on page seven shows the share of support in the expenditures of the state. That percentage since 2007, which is 10 and a half percent in the expenditures of the state. In 2008, it dropped to 8.29 and in 2009 to 7.37% and the total share of the gross social product, so the share of the support the state provides is also lower. When we look at the structure, that is to say, they represent individual categories of support in the period 2007/2009. Then in the first place, the table says the table again, which bothers me very much. The Croatian tablet is not a table, and I have already warned those who write this in Croatian and in Croatian with a clear letter once on this and on this phone. So in table four, the first category is agriculture and fisheries where the amount of support in 2007 was 3 billion and 274 million. In 2008, it increased to 3 billion and 600 15 million, and in 2009, the amount of support was 3 billion and 671 million kuna. It would appear that this is also a percentage of the increase compared to other support, from 38% to 42%. However, we need to know that there would be no confusion in the structure, although in this whole material this structure of support for agriculture is not called because it does not belong to the Agency's competence. According to the available data, this increase in agricultural support was due to the establishment of various agencies and the paying of various agencies for their work, for their employees who are around a thousand or more, which were created to adapt to the accession of the European Union, and which, therefore, were needed to be established and established through various laws adopted by this Parliament, clearly that the payment of such agencies, they do not work free of charge, so they are not voluntary, but should be paid. Then the amount of support in agriculture was increased. And in fact, the real amount of support for agriculture remained the same if it wasn't even smaller than it was. And later on, I'm going to substrate the data, the objective data that I have and that's available to the public from a variety of other statistics. The same table under the specific sector category also lists shipbuilding, which in 2007 supported 3 billion 125 million kuna, later a billion and 900, and then a billion and 100 2009, with a guarantee of 2.2 billion kuna for 2008 and 2009. And yet again, we have a situation in the context of shipbuilding in which the rehabilitation and restructuring was to be carried out, that it has not been done, we have a problem here that occurs to Europe, and in connection with the status of our shipyards. I'm sorry, but I have to say that again and again from this place, I don't know which time in connection with these shipyards and their operations there's one, not a gray zone, but one area that's a little less famous, and these are shipbuilding cooperatives, which are doing a great job, which are not in difficulty or loss, and through them, so through these support are a large part of these support spills out right through them. When we look at the ownership structure of these cooperatives, then it would be very interesting to see the names and last names of the owners of these companies that co-operate with the shipyards, and in fact, in some ways, launder the state money by giving all citizens, all taxpayers in support who then have their turn towards the cooperatives, and the shipyards are still standing or to say slowly sinking deeper and deeper. So with the support itself, we haven't been able to bring the shipbuilding to a level or status, we haven't been able to restructure or restructure them, and here's the part, the good part of these reasons that I was talking about, where the money went who knows where, and not in the shipyards, along with all the negativity that happened in Brodosplit where six million dollars of dollars were blacked out, which is probably going to come in line at last for the repressive authorities, the courts and others, let's hope this is the rule of law, as someone once said the rule does its job. It's a very good-looking flossula. So when we talk about support, we wonder what it's all about, and what it's for. Here's an example when it comes to protecting the environment and saving energy. And then he says that in 2009, the amount of support granted for environmental protection and energy savings is 83 million and 200 thousand kuna. Energy savings, it says exactly, literally energy savings. And if we had any energy savings strategy, if we applied in this strategy all possible modern, sophisticated, recent technical methods that the world knows, Europe, if we used what God has given us to our southern position, Southeastern Europe, and if we were to establish or finance aid, help to obtain and install solar systems to a large extent, so that I speak in thousands of facilities that are private, which are various companies and other institutions, absolutely certain if we save only 10% of what is spent energy in Croatia, that is between 3 and 4000 megawatts of electricity, in which case the savings would be 350 megawatts or almost half of what is produced by Krsko nuclear power plant. Isn't it interesting that state aid in this segment saves electricity? Isn't it interesting to support people who are building houses so we have a lot of houses that we build in areas of special state care, which we finance to then import construction material from Republika Srpska, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, instead of Croatia, to support with a certain amount of money to make energy-saving houses, so that we save energy and solar systems, solar collectors, etc. So there's no vision, there's no strategy, but let's give money. Here we see how this Fund for Ecology and Energy Efficiency has also had money, support in this sector and how money has disappeared in private pockets, for ecology, and less for energy efficiency, in fact ineffectiveness. When it comes to agriculture and the resources given to support farmers, I wonder, is there also Minister former Shucker, how much do we owe to the voucher banks that we gave to the peasants? When will the vouchers that have been given to the peasants for, and in terms of incentives, i.e. debt support to the peasants agreed on at 88% of the amount, even though the original intention was to fuck 40% of the incentives that were previously made? And when will they come for payment? 2011 Furthermore, capital investments and capital investments still owe us 500 million kuna, and it doesn't show up here because they're not even paid. Well, that was transferred in 2010. Furthermore, isn't this support given to peasants and farmers actually the result of pressure and protesting peasants much more than whether the Ministry's or the ministries' intentions and the strategy of agricultural development run by the ministry? Furthermore, if agricultural support is as much as it is, I wonder what is the customs duty and tax on imports of agricultural products annually? I wouldn't be in millions and millions, it's about five billion kunas. Imports, agricultural products, food products. And here we have in 2011 not even foreseen in the budget a means to support the development of the food-processing sector. And what do we expect? What we expect, here we are today also discussing Europe, the rapid and hasty accession and the legal regulation that Europe imposes on us and which we ourselves want to implement or implement, and these are these things where we can help ourselves, and we do not, or the Government does not. Therefore, gentlemen of the agency, your report is technically correct, neatly written, very informatively and informatively, but this data has indeed developed a debate, and I have made my contribution to it. There is no such thing as to object to what I say in this regard technically, is there, but we could have supported and much different and much better use, especially in agriculture where some have received support without any control. Especially those privileged or similar ones that no one has ever looked into his 700 or 900 hectares as much as he has made a reference offering, and also today bright and dress to say in agriculture and impose their ideas and show actually farmers and farmers how it should be done, and they have gained and crushed an ugly wealth due to the lack of control, due to poor or no state control over the money invested by all taxpayers. I won't name them here, but I know a lot of them. Especially from the middle I come from, from Brod-Posavina County. Thank you very much. We'll support the report as a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67618	Thank you. One correction, Madam Representative Gyurjka Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Director. So here I would just fix this part of my colleague when he's talking about agriculture. Namely, there's no talking about the report, talking about agriculture in general, so you can say someone who doesn't understand absolutely anything. And he doesn't understand anything because, if you let me just for a second for education, for the people who listen, it's that this government has continuously taken its measures, which are, these are also support and subsidies and other measures that it invests in agriculture, the government has therefore increased agricultural and agricultural producers by 40%. In 2003, there were 135 thousand OPGs, and today there were 195. That same year, in 2003, there were 700 thousand agricultural areas, today a million and 50 thousand hectares of which is in the system of incentives 750. Just one more second. Let me answer to the gentleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67620	Your colleagues are out of time. You haven't started correcting an incorrect quote. ... Do not, then, begin, so that people of God, so why don't you say I'm correcting that and that and then correcting it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You made some kind of explanation, an introductory explanation, and then you ran out of light. ... There's no need for an intervention. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67621	You intervened exactly what I wanted to say. So, you can't have my whole argument of the lady correcting. And besides, we know the state of agriculture we don't need without it, and it has nothing to do with anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67622	Okay, yeah. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his word. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67623	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Competition Protection Council with Associates, colleagues and fellow representatives. Here I would like to commend this report because it seems to me a credible and reliable source of information and information on who is all granting state support, on the basis of which the programme, which is intended for them, is the total value of the support contained under a specific programme and who are the biggest beneficiaries of support in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, it also contains a part of those who have not submitted their reports in order to make it more credible. In particular, support for certain sectors and for agriculture and fisheries and support for industry and services has been shown. In the agriculture and fisheries sector that is excluded here, I must indicate from the application of the State Aid Act, which is not the responsibility of this agency, but of the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development. Therefore, no detailed analysis has been carried out, only the total amount for the purposes of the pooling of these funds in relation to the total support. Support for horizontal objectives is intended to support the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, research, development and innovation, environmental protection and energy saving, the restructuring of entrepreneurs, which I hold extremely important, employment and improvement. And here I will agree with the council president that they should certainly be increased in this part of this support. Sectoral support is significant, but these are aids that can disrupt competition are therefore approved under specific rules and for certain sectors. And I'm here to point out that there's still room for additional, or greater control of this particular support. The Agency, we heard today, is benefiting from this report and the methodology for showing the state aid it uses and for showing support in the support report to the European Commission. It means she's completely in sync. Although regional support in the EU is being presented in the context of horizontal objectives due to their high importance for ensuring a balanced regional development of the Republic of Croatia, they are shown separately in this report and they amount to something like 320 million kuna. A little higher by 2.73% compared to 2008, steadily increasing and increasing their share of 2.73% in total support. Here we can see that the support in 2009 amounted to 8.7 billion kuna, which we heard is 9.1% less than in 2008, and the result is to the greatest extent significant reduction in sectoral support especially in shipbuilding, steel industry, but the support for both recovery and restructuring has been reduced but the support in the transport sector has been reduced. All the above-mentioned support has been granted through the following instruments. The subsidies account for more than 7 billion or 80.6% of total aid granted, followed by state guarantees of 1.1 billion or 13.2% of tax exemptions and reliefs 372.4 million kuna or 4.28%, equity shares 106 million or 1.2%, favourable loans 49.3 million or 0.57%. Support for agriculture and fishing and transport support here I want to highlight this in the transport of land, air and maritime. They are not seen only from the aspect of the market and the effects on competition. This is mainly about aids compensated for the costs of providing services of general economic interest in favour of society as a whole, and not only to those providing services. This report is therefore to be observed separately. Therefore, the support in the economy without those areas of agriculture, fisheries and transport in 2009 amounted to 3.7 billion kuna, which is 17.4% lower than in 2008 and 60.9% of these subsidies, guarantees 27.7, tax exemptions and reliefs 10.3 and favourable loans of 1.27% and shares in equity of around 0.05%. Support for land, maritime and air transport amounted to 1.3 billion kuna. The report also shows that, according to the 2009 support categories, support for horizontal objectives and regional support accounts for 11.25% of total support, and support granted to industry and services sectors is 43.9 and mainly related to shipbuilding, transport and television broadcasting. In addition, 42.2 relate to agriculture and fisheries, 2.5 to local support. There has been a change in the structure of total aid in such a way as to increase the share of support in agriculture and fisheries by 1.5%, the share of support for industry and services has been reduced from 62.1 to 57.6 in total aid. Although sectoral support is also a reduction of around 970 million kuna and support for horizontal targets by €4.4 million, although, given the EU's methodology for horizontal objectives, regional support and support also enters at local level, the application of this methodology is a horizontal growth of 3.8%. A little less support for employment and research, development and innovation, and a little less support in culture. Although there is no support within the meaning of the law, which is not subject to supervision by the agency, I would like to highlight here the support of small values provided through the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and to island employers and small shipowners who have produced extremely good results. Also small support to the Ministry of Tourism to increase the competitiveness of Croatian tourism which also produced good results, and with support from tourism that amounted to 164.5 million kuna, which together with these small aids also resulted in a good season 2010. As regards the control of the use of support and certainly there is an irregularity should be called upon by the Institute of Objections or an appeal which is little used and which is submitted to the Agency regarding the size of the support related to use but also the role and purpose. It is good to know that if an irregularity is established, the user returns the support and increases it by tight interest, which at this time in the Republic of Croatia is 17%. I support this report because it is methodologically content, but it also makes certain proposals, and I would like to point out from the proposal here that I want to point out the one that has brought out by the President of the Council, which is to reduce the number of support providers, to increase horizontal support in order to remove market failures, to increase support for tourism. But here's the opportunity to call all those who haven't provided local support data for 2009, and I'll remind you that the report says 19 counties responded, 106 cities means 20 cities haven't and 74 municipalities haven't responded. Among them is one that uses and the largest number of support is Istria, which is a significant user of support. Well, here's the call. I can see there's no colleague of Cain's or a colleague of Miletic's. What are they afraid of if their support report hasn't been delivered to the Agency? Is it so that they do not know how these support is spent, how much are they, and how they are spent? With the completion of all those who did not deliver and this report would be more realistic, but all users, all taxpayers would have more information and would know how much and how to use these support. It is their right that individual and parliamentary representatives and mayors deny them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67624	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67625	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Marinović, you also talked about the incentives in agriculture and about the effects of other support in the Republic of Croatia. However, you did not mention that the Republic of Croatia financed agricultural producers in other countries, e.g. Denmark and the Netherlands, which she spent 55 million kuna on. In fact, it is an incentive for these import pigs, to which the state of Croatia spent 55 million kuna and imported from Denmark and the Netherlands. This destroyed domestic pigmeat production, so the number of pigs has been reduced over the past few years by as much as 50 grand. And the number of people who do milk production is down by 30 grand. Last year we have a 50 million-litre cut in milk production. Well, now, shall we talk more about support? Franjo, we can get everyone in, best.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67626	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67627	Here I am, although I was talking about the support in agriculture, my colleague Grubisic, but they are exempt from the application of the State Aid Act, which is not the responsibility of this Agency, but of the Ministry of Agriculture. And I said that no more detailed analysis was done in this and that we couldn't do it exactly the way you say we talk about the consequences, the consequences of that. I didn't see that information in the report, if I'd seen it, I'd be happy to comment with you on the effects of such support.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67628	Mr. Representative Davor Huška, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome once again the president of the Competition Protection Agency. My colleagues and colleagues. A few words about this report from, it seems far away in 2009, but there is always something interesting, instructive and smart to draw and conclude and during which we live and work and some irregularities that have been observed here to try to remove. The Agency for the Protection of Competition is obliged to deliver and prepare this report to the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 20. State aid laws. It is also an obligation to draw up an annual State aid report as referred to in Article 70. Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community, i.e. Member States of the European Community. In this article, the Agency is obliged to submit the report to the European Commission, of course, and that is why we aim to make this report look as good as possible from year to year as possible, more positive and quality. The 2009 Annual State Aid Report contains a presentation of the state aid granted in 2009, as well as data from previous 2008 and 2007. A summary of the legal basis for State aid was also presented and a list of decisions taken by the Agency in 2009. Support is also shown, i.e. data and support of small value. A lot of this has been said about state aid, and since it's kind of a focus of interest to me at a time when I'm not in the Parliament, I'd say a few words about support at the level primarily to local and smaller parts of the district self-government. Although they participate in a smaller percentage in total support, they are always interesting, especially for us city leaders, municipalities to discuss them and tell some of our thinking. So it says here in the report itself that units of local and regional self-government have significantly smaller resources to support, primarily the economy, which is clear to our budgets, compared to central government bodies. Nevertheless, we are trying to actively support the development of entrepreneurship in the areas of units of local, regional self-government, improving entrepreneurship and, of course, other municipal infrastructures. For this reason, the Agency has also collected information on the aid active in these areas and included units of local regional self-government and in cooperation and support education programmes. We also see here that the information on the aid granted was provided by 19 counties including the City of Zagreb, and a total of 126 cities in Croatia 106 cities provided data, of a total of 429 municipalities at that time 355 municipalities provided the requested information to the Agency. So I'm curious about one question, what about cities and municipalities that haven't even delivered the data at all. I believe there are no criminal provisions that can come out of it. Perhaps just one suggestion, that they too, in the future, engage in these activities. Although this means incomplete data at the level of units of local and regional self-government and these data provide good and quality insight into the amounts and purposes of support and other forms of assistance of local self-government units directed towards the economy in its own field, and it is also visible from the report that most of the funds by local self-government units are aimed at objectives which are not real support within the meaning of the State Aid Act. For example, they refer to donations to different associations, sports and cultural-art societies, fire associations, the Red Cross, political parties, scientific, religious institutions and the like. I have tried to divide these support to the economy into two groups, both direct and indirect. That's the kind of thinking I do at the mayor's office. In indirect support, we usually involve supporting entrepreneurs and supporting entrepreneurs in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, meaning that segment that we as relatively small units of local self-government can even influence. A lot of this has been said about agriculture and can be said that we are trying to allocate as much resources on the ground as possible for subsidies both in multi-annual crops and subsidies to cattle producers, meat and milk producers with the aim of becoming the arrival and approach of Croatia to the European Union as much as possible to foreign farmers. Another significant type of direct support is support for small and medium-sized enterprises where we really have a whole range of support, and I will set out several ways in which cities and municipalities help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This first through insurance was free, there was an extremely favourable land in economic areas for building economic facilities. Under two, it is a reduction in municipal giving or completely free utility services that are provided, and in the first place I think of municipal fees and municipal contribution to the construction of exclusively economic facilities in cities and municipalities. And three, direct aid to the companies that go in my case, and I hear so in other cities in two directions. One direct aid to companies that are organised as support institutions to entrepreneurs, for example entrepreneurship centres, and I know that we have, with the help we give from our budget, the mandatory finding of the State Audit to record this support as an irregularity. Although I did not find out today why irregularity is, for example, the City of Pakrac, the City of Pleternica, the City of Novska subsidise the work of a company, an entrepreneurial centre which is a supporting institution for the development of small and medium entrepreneurship in certain units of local self-government. That really leaves me with one open question. I'll use it when there's a review debate to post it to the rapporteurs on this area. The second we meet in the field is the financing of local media. Our local lists and radio stations are difficult to survive on the market, exclusively on a commercial basis and rarely happens to directly, through wages, either through financial assistance, cities and units of local self-government co-finance the work of local media. Unfortunately, we will not be legally able to continue this when Croatia enters the European Union and I fear that our local media will find themselves in a very difficult situation if they are left exclusively to the market and to obtain income on the market. Here's so much about direct support that's recognized in local self-government units. But I think that, as a support for the development of the economy, there should also be a segment of indirect support where I think first of all of the quality municipal infrastructure, where cities, municipalities, with the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, resort ministries, funds, institutions, struggles to ensure as high-quality roads, roads, transport infrastructure, as high-quality and safer water supply, electricity supply, gas supply, sewage and collector systems, of course environmental protection and waste disposal. And I believe that this is also an important reason for certain entrepreneurs to come into a particular city or stay in the city, invest in opening new plants, create new jobs that directly affect our city budgets, through higher revenues to local budgets and reduced social benefits for unemployed and social categories that are needed. In addition to primary, or indirect support, investment in preschool, primary school, secondary education, higher education, as it is one segment that gives quality labour, educated workers, which is also a prerequisite for economic development in certain areas. It is all in synergy with the restoring ministries, with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with especially the Ministry of Economy, which monitors all these projects in the area of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, giving better and better results on the ground. Here I commend this support report, on state aid, and I think that this segment of local and regional support also has an increasingly significant place in this report and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67630	Thank you. At 17 hours and 8 minutes, the time for the ten-minute hearing was up. Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Council, Mrs. Spevec, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have indeed heard a series of comments in this debate. Depends on which side it comes from either left or right. But first of all, I have to point out my dissatisfaction here, because some colleagues really don't want to show the situation as it is, but make it a different situation. I wonder many times why it has to be, or it's only because of political thinking, political discipline, and what's done well, it's not done well. It's really not good, and I'm sure this kind of debate, and we can't call it constructive, it doesn't do any good. All people who follow the work of this Parliament will see that, regardless of the political colors of this debate, they do not bring benefits to anyone, nor to those who receive state support. I wonder what would have happened if, at the same time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia had not approved the support of certain societies, that they were not at the same time supporting the economy in a particularly difficult time of the economic and world crisis, and for which you opposition leaders would still want to show that it is the sole guilt of the Government of the Republic of Croatia without seeing what is happening in the world at the same time. And here's when we talk today about the support that the government has with the agency, so it sent 8.6 or 8.7 billion kunas once again, and we want to prove to this people that it's not good. Here I have just replicated my colleague who said that these support is harmful to agriculture, and respected colleagues and colleagues I cannot understand that we can use such words no matter what sides they come from, because these are really offensive words for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and for whoever receives support. And why it's happening just like that, especially in agriculture. Well, just for reasons that never before, but never before, not just looking at support, but generally the funds that the Ministry of Agriculture has had this year, there has never been so much funding. And again, dissatisfaction and protest again. I know that there are also those who will forever be dissatisfied, and you know it in particular which farmers. Well, they can get road support two, but they will again be dissatisfied because behind some farmers if we can call them standing political leaders who give instructions to the same small agricultural producers and create a certain dissatisfaction. Therefore, it is not important to support the extent to which they are, but it is important to show and prove in any way that this is not good and as the Government of the Republic of Croatia's support for agriculture has been said today. It's really for me from my point of view of insult and I don't think it's necessary to send such words out, and to justify the trust of my party to speak here today on behalf of the club or individually. I think we have to avoid that anyway. Of course, today when we talk about the support of industry, therefore the economy, when we talk about the support of shipbuilding, when we talk about the support of local self-government, when we talk about the support of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, then we can certainly say that the real moves have been made and God forbid that we have had more resources and opportunities to help in particular this troubled economy with these difficult times of the global and economic crisis. Maybe some colleagues and colleagues won't admit and say, but here I come from Požega-Slavon County and I know what the situation is in the economy and what the problems are about. I really don't need to be convinced here in this House that it's only because of the weak government, because of the work we didn't recognize in the economy for a certain time, and I've already spoken several times here, dear friends if it's so easy to manage, if it's easy to hire, so why hasn't any of us here been taken to be a businessman, to hire one employee, to use the very support that the Government of the Republic of Croatia here provides to all those who are in the economy. Well, of course that's not easy, and that's why it's simpler here in Parliament to give lessons to the government, to give lessons to anyone who deals with the economy, and unlike those who have never done it, they will never do it. Of course, here when we talk about support, individual industries, we may be concerned, but not about the rule of the Croatian Democratic Community or about the rule of this coalition government that behaves, but we must be concerned not only about the creation of the Republic of Croatia, but also about the former Yugoslavia. We all know together how much shipbuilding has been helped through various different support, we know that the state of Croatia will just be the happiest when we resolve privatisation in shipyards. And they shouldn't fear in shipyards those workers who worked fairly when the new owner comes, they shouldn't be afraid to quit, and these people who showed their interest in shipyards today will recognize what they're going to do and how they're going to do. And I agree here with other colleagues who have been saying that individual mechanics who have used this particular support in the shipyard, it is true, but I'm sure when the new owner comes he'll just recognize how and how to run this same shipyard that he probably won't need support tomorrow, or they'll be reduced to the least possible extent, and at the same time all these same people will work in these companies. When we talk about support in the rest of the economy, it is certainly for every praise, because without such support it would certainly be far more difficult to achieve the results that have been achieved so far. And therefore, by certainly discussing and listening to this debate today, I support everything that the Government has done, but I am sure that if there is no unity here, if there is not what we all advocate and expect, our common views for the benefit of Croatia, then surely no one will recognize you in the next parliamentary elections, because they will know that for these people who are against everything should not vote. And today, you've been honored, gentlemen, by showing your true face, when you realize that there is no quorum in this House, you've come out, and at the same time you're not wondering if we should stay here and pass certain laws to close certain chapters as soon as possible, but you've got out nicely and gone away, and once again you've shown your true face. And that is why I accept this report from the council and I am sure that this way of working, but when there is a better time of greater support in certain branches in the economy will bring about a better improvement in the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67632	Thank you. One correction, Mr. Representative Koračević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67633	Thank you very much. I am correcting the quote of counterpart Lucic, who claimed that some parliamentary representatives in this assembly claim these support to be harmful to agriculture. My colleague Lucić, if you have listened, and I believe that it is, I personally said that these support is beneficial for such agriculture, and for the overall agriculture is extremely harmful because it is the whole idea of support in the European Union to raise the agricultural sector, to raise the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, and that the agricultural sector works without support, not with support, but without support. So if you've heard correctly then I think that, I'm simply surprised to you as an entrepreneur that you're at all discussing something that's very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67634	Replications. Madam Representative Gyurjica Sumrak, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67635	... Vice President. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Comrade Lucic, thank you for this presentation of yours, because you have just corrected and said what I wanted to correct, I had no opportunity, and now in the replica, I just want to say something. Indeed, it is inadmissible in our Parliament and in Croatia, including politicians, for all of us to talk about something that we don't understand first, and the second we want to degrade it so much on the lowest branches, and just for what purposes, some kind of political. I would just like to remind my colleague Lucic of one segment, and these are defence cooperatives. Defence cooperatives, these are really the measures that, and the support given to these cooperatives, in 2004, when this government, the then vice-president of the government, went to the establishment of defence cooperatives, laughed, and also disdained, were four, there are now over three hundred of them. These defense cooperatives don't work, 89% are agricultural. This isn't just about the economy, about agriculture, about self-employment, about employment. 8,000 members of defense cooperatives, so their families, are employed, and they have a respectable production. Today they produce about 500 tons of fruit and vegetables. Of course our opposition doesn't care, and that's exactly where it shows, in this segment of defense, in this segment of cooperatives, as well as in the entire segment of the economy, this government cares about all of it. It's easy to spit, especially when you don't understand, it's easy to be an astronaut and never sit on a bike. That's not going to work for a colleague, but that's why colleagues from the HDSSB who spit. And of course I personally know, personally I know, and now I'm going to tell you, I heard. So the opposition, the coalition since 2000, not to take care of agriculture, about support, it's zero for them, nothing, underground. This is seen in the SDP city programme of Zagreb as well as zero, nothing, under the country. You were in power. For you, agriculture, forestry, and the water economy doesn't matter. A farmer nothing, for you it's nothing, he needs everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67636	Okay. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67637	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67638	You don't have to work so hard to explain because the more you explain everything seems like some MPs here don't want to hear it. So I think it's clear and loud that exactly what the government is doing in these difficult times wants to show that it's not that and when it's done well, it's not good. That's exactly what I wanted to talk to you about. And why do we need that? Is it just about coming to power? Well, you won't be coming to power so quickly because if you speak only in such a dictionary, people won't recognize you just for that, you'll have to prove something different, something more concrete. But I wonder why this way and why don't you commend what's well done. Well, it's not the devil that everything's not so good. As much as my debate has been on the subject of shipbuilding, of course you can't say everything in these few minutes, but I am sure that in future discussions I will certainly protect these interests of the economy and all those branches that have come well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67639	Ms. Representative Neda Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67640	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Lucic, I have to actually share with you a doubt and I'm not at all surprised by your doubt that I'm calling your name actually a situation where certain leaders of local self-government units don't want to call the right name what's called state support. Here's an example of why I'm not surprised. The town of Sibenik, when HDZ's government held responsibility for the city, so before the 2009 local elections, launched two major infrastructure facilities, a project that means the improvement of the lives of all citizens and citizens of the city of Sibenik. At that time, the SDP, the HNS's furniture, said it would be none of it at the moment, i.e. from the multimillion-dollar support, and two-thirds of the support from the two ministries of the state. After the elections were won and the city's responsibility was assumed, the same rhetoric came, even being told by the leaders of the town of Sibenik if these students succeed in thanking Croatia as a whole. The school forces, and we have not heard thanks that neither the state of Croatia nor the citizens of the city of Sibenik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67641	Thank you. Mrs. Representative, and her answer, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67642	I'll just have a brief vice president, there's no point in taking a lot of time. But here's a colleague, it's not just like that in Sibenik, it's like that in Požega where I come from, it's like that in all the cities, I can tell you a few cities. And here's because I know about the situation in Sibenik because I often pass and come there I'd just like to see that the results are summed up and the new authorities are back two years in Sibenik, which is what these are, which are capital facilities. I didn't notice any objects, this is which I come down to Sibenik. And the question is, where did the support end, why don't some leaders use it? Well, I have the same mayor in Požega who says that this government won't let him build anything. And you know how much he's handed over the projects? Not one. And he tells him this power and the government won't let him build it, not to invest it. Well, I've told him a lot of times, give me those projects, I'll handle them, so I'll prove to you that a civil permit can be issued for proper documentation. A colleague of Linic's, right? ... Well, they'll recognize you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It doesn't have to be right now, he'll recognize it. But then you know as well everything that has legal permits for projects is possible to do, you know. Well you can't talk then you know this government doesn't give me, and all the other local self-government units in Požega-Slavon County are building and using support. That's what my colleague Huška used to say best, you know. Let's not say something that isn't. Let's admit and say we didn't do it or we'll do it in another time, but now we haven't used it. So, fellow Members, I agree fully with you and I say I have this example in my Požega-Slavon County. But that's why we all work and really build. And a lot of capital facilities are being built regardless of what someone wants to say is not true in Slavonia. Indeed, in Slavonia it is built and worked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67643	Madam Representative Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67644	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the 2009 State Aid Annual Report, I must again warn the fact that today in February 2011 we are discussing the 2009 Annual State Aid Report, which is rather illogical. I understand that the agency has not yet drawn up a report for 2010, but I do not understand why it always takes so long to discuss these reports. I repeat that, unfortunately, this is happening regularly in the Croatian Parliament, so almost all reports are being discussed with great delay, and may we never get in spite of the legal obligations. What does that show? This shows the government's relationship with the executive body towards the Croatian Parliament, i.e. marginalisation and non-compliance with the parliament as legislative authorities. But who's to blame? It's our own fault that the government is allowed to have such an evasive relationship with the Parliament. But not only are deadlines problematic when we talk about reports that we are discussing. The content and structure of these documents that are often purely formal or orderly are problematic. The legal obligation of the executive authority to report on the implementation of certain measures is often done by the executive authority only to satisfy the legal form, rather than to give contentious debate on reports possible corrections to certain practices of the executive body, which should be the meaning of parliamentary discussions on such reports. Unfortunately, this too is a report just like last year, made as most of the reports discussed in the Parliament, i.e. superficially and pro form. And in this report, just as in last year, some extremely important information and detailed explanations are missing. What do I mean? As with last year, a part of the report relating to state aid in the field of environmental protection is so scrupulous and elementic that it seems to me that the representatives and representatives of the Competition Protection Agency did not listen at all to last year's debate and my remarks on last year's report, i.e. Chapter 4.1.2, because that part of the report was almost copied from last year's report. No changes in formulations, no sentences, no easy way to report. I got the impression that the 2008 report only included the 2009 data and that's it. In 2009, support for environmental protection and energy savings was reported to have seen the most significant growth compared to other horizontal support, and it seems to me that this was the case last year, i.e. 64.6 million kuna was allocated in 2009, i.e. almost 74% higher than in 2008 when 37.2 million kuna was allocated. I recall that the increase from 2007 to 2008 was quite similar, i.e. at that time 80% of the report was again found to be mainly subsidies, i.e. grants or grants granted by incentives amounting to more than 62 million kuna. The other nearly 2.5 million kunas are favourable loans. And this report explains that this year's highest support provider is also the controversial Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which has been allocated to the 37.7 million kuna, most of its subsidy to Salonite, Koksara, TEF from Sibenik. The fund was also given by the so-called so-called fund. small aid amounting to €18.6 million, which is added to the horizontal support for environmental protection and energy savings amount to €83.2 million. The Agency has also failed to write in this report what specific funds were allocated in 2009, for which concrete projects, not only for whom but also for which and why, and whether there are differences in the structure of the allocation of funds over the past 4 years or all the time, are about maintaining the same direction of granting support. This is extremely important because it is precisely this information that shows the government's strategy, the government's strategic commitment to the development of certain sectors or areas. This document does not show this in the whole document, therefore not only from the chapter on environmental protection and energy savings but also from all other chapters of the document. It is not a matter of where to encourage and support energy saving projects, for example. in the food industry, in metal, textile or will be given to stimulate wind power plants or evenly all types of renewable energy sources from sun to small hydropower plants, geothermal energy, biomass or other renewable energy sources. It is precisely this data that shows the country's strategic developmental commitment, and this, in addition to controlling the conduct of the executive authority, should be the main purpose of this report. In fact, it is the best way to see the strategic developmental commitment of a government from the granting of state aid, and unfortunately this document does not show it. Unfortunately, it is not because of the sloppyness of the report makers, but because this government, regardless of who is leading it, has no strategic developmental vision of our country. And this year, we can only learn from the report how I already mentioned that the highest support provider in 2009 was the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund which subsidized among other companies Kosar, Salonit, TEF. But the report doesn't say which projects these companies were granted subsidies for. In this respect, environmental protection is a very broad area that can include projects to resuscitate polluted areas, care of industrial or other waste, the introduction of a waste management system or a cleaner production system. These can be energy efficiency projects, energy savings, cogeneration, waste water treatment, more rational resource use, water raw materials and the like, reducing the emissions of harmful gases, using the environment of more acceptable transport, not counting further. I have been taught that support for environmental protection and energy savings can be granted for the following purposes of investment and procurement of new transport vehicles, which exceed the standards of environmental protection. However, it was immediately reported that support can also be provided for transport vehicles which increase the level of environmental protection in the absence of these standards. It's not without the devil because in 2009 the fund shared money just for the purchase of hundreds led Europet standards, not for hybrids or not by God of electric vehicles. As far as I know, Europet standards do not exceed environmental standards. I'm sure the subsidies to TEF, Salonita and Coxar were not support that exceeded environmental standards. On the contrary. The question is whether the results of these projects today led to respect for the minimum prescribed by the environmental standards law. Perhaps it is in this very fact that the main reason why this report does not provide any details of what is being financed in particular. I will again warn of the disproportion of the overall funds of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, which in 2009 exceeded 1 billion kuna, as well as data on state support for environmental protection and energy savings of just over 83 million kuna. Given that the arguments on what can be considered state support in this area, I quote "examination of environmental protection, energy savings and promotion of renewable energy sources, investment in high efficient cogeneration, energy efficient district heating, waste management, disposal of polluted locations". It is very wide and allows for diverse interpretations of support that cannot again be questioned by the Agency as to how the Agency has assessed that these are State support and that they are not State support from those projects financed from the Fund's resources. Since it is not clear to me from this report as well as from the previous one, I believe that some more detailed information about which these are specific projects and in which amount of government support from the fund is given would clarify this misunderstanding, and I believe both the misunderstanding and other colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I would like to remind you that in the meantime, amendments to the Waste Act have been adopted which allow for the collection of the costs of the recovery of so-called ". black dots, so in my opinion, in a document like this, the funds used to resuscitate Koksara and Salonita are very risky because it would mean that the state has decided to donate funds used to resuscitate the known owners of these companies, which is quite worrying. I will take this opportunity to point out that this grant grant from the fund is a dangerous idea and reason for the foundation of the fund. In particular, environmental funds around the world are justified in order to finance projects that improve and improve environmental conditions from certain parafiscal burdens to users and environmental pollutants. Such funds are also used to co-finance projects for which polluters become significantly smaller contaminants thereby reducing the burdens that such entities pay into the fund. The idea of leadership is not to increase funds of the fund but rather to constantly reduce funds of the fund because this shows the effectiveness of state policy in the field of environmental protection. In Croatia, the situation is diametrically opposite and every year the fund increases its incomes that are very unintendedly used from which almost no positive shifts in terms of environmental protection are seen. It is if nothing else indicates the absence of the strategic development vision of this government that I spoke of at the beginning of the presentation. Finally, I would like to refer to Chapter 21 which explains the category of State aid that shows that the growth trend in support of agriculture and fisheries continues, while reducing the support of the industry and services sector in this way is no doubt buying the loyalty of the HSS. but what worries more is that this increase in support of agriculture is not seen in increasing food production, but unfortunately neither the quality of the food produced, and this seems to be no one's concern in the government. Unfortunately, for some reason there is no adequate control of the use of support regardless of whether it is subsidies or any other form of support that is unacceptable. It is absolutely unacceptable that this document lacks a report on the control of the use of support and observed irregularities, which is why I will not support this report either.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67645	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67646	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam President. If I didn't forget, I'd have to start by saying that the report was very correct and professionally done, that it said everything that was his job, and neither was the task of you nor the Agency to be a market audit or to not give God to the State's Attorney's Office, because that's probably how this report would have been then maybe hundreds or thousands of pages. And I don't want to forget right away, so even if I don't forget, I say right away that this report and I will personally accept it. So it's very interesting and it's clear that the issue of state aid itself has raised some interest here, but it's also logical and normal, since for 2009, the value of these funds is over 8.7 billion and it's clearly worth talking about. It is clear that the fundamental movement and marking of the trend of state support is going towards a reduction in both that and that relative part. But here's an interesting finding that confirms that state support is an important instrument of economic policy for every country. We would not believe it, but this financial crisis has partly and significantly rerouted the concept of state support to the EU as well. So before the 2008 financial crisis, then here the value of state support in EU countries was not even about 0.5%, so first of all, by entering primarily through the banking sector, these support would increase to more than 3.6%. And if we throw out that banking part outside and part of traffic and those in the EU countries in 2009 are more than 0.62% which confirms the fundamental characteristic that these measures can indeed have an important impact on the creation of economic policy itself. In Croatia itself, this amount of total support is lower by 9.1% compared to the previous year, and by 2.6% is also the value and share of total support in the GDP of the Republic of Croatia. There is worth clearly mentioning and repeating that the biggest part, because these are still... support for shipbuilding, rehabilitation, restructuring and support for transport, along with the undisputed topic that agriculture is certainly there, but is not a particular topic of today's debate, as has already been said in previous discussions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A few sentences should also be said that when we talk here about the truly high-quality distribution of the support itself to often help in life and support and intertwine, and above all if we remove them from what is called a financing approach in the crisis to help someone with financial injections, above all, in certain activities, I will say survival. Especially what interests me or puts me in the focus of interest is, above all, all sorts of new investments that then give new jobs, a new social gross product. So when we talk about these investments in question and whether they are in agriculture, in advanced production such as one part in advanced technologies, it's about me in Zapresic. This is at the same time a topic related to alternative energy elections, a topic related to municipal infrastructure, connected to water, which in some ways connects and realizes that all these support should be well summed up and summed up in the total of these projects that it carries with it, especially when it comes to new investments. With that in mind, I would say yes, and this is what my colleague Huška said a lot about it, where this place and the role of the unit of local self-government is, since when we talk about these aids, and in the context of the law at the level of local self-government, it is all about 200 million kunas and they are in themselves relatively negligible when we talk about the total value of support. The second part of the support that we co-finance KUDs, public spending, means it is not the subject of today's observations or the law itself, but it is worth noting that the units of local self-government, through their overall activities, have a significant impact on this one cohesion of large parts of the various support, and when it comes to joint projects. Because let us be aware that very often even the holders of these support do not know at some given time what forms of support they have, and in some ways this community and local self-government, and in the context of support can and can give very often good quality and good results. It is worth mentioning, of course, that when it comes to state aid, and I personally give absolute and certainly confirmation and my contribution to discussing that everything that is today or yesterday, and in particular tomorrow is called research, development, environmental protection, energy savings, and in this context, the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and, in particular, the improvement of what is supposed to be for the development of each society, and it is not surprising that the EU countries and most of their support have just provided in this horizontal line as a prerequisite for further, better, better and more successful development. Unfortunately, the economic crisis has, in a good way, slowed down this grand amount when we talk about nominal amount, but in the relative part and in 2009 that part of the horizontal support was partly and certainly increased. As I said, these state aids are a very important and powerful instrument for the economic and industrial policy of each country, and should be seen as such in the context of the development of the Republic of Croatia, it seems doubtless to me that in the time in which we have them, especially in this context, horizontal support will also be placed on the budgets behind us, and I am ultimately supporting this report by the State Agency for the Protection of Competition on State Aid for 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67647	Thank you. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67648	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Mrs. Spevec, colleagues and colleagues. We have talked a lot today in this debate about the 2009 Annual State Support Report, but I would like to say a few words in fact about horizontal support, or the very structure of support. In my understanding, which may be laity in this subject, but it seems right to me, that in fact the whole idea of supporting it is to raise competitiveness, to encourage exports, to establish those areas and those sectors, those branches where we are good, and to be even better in these branches through support, and in some way to increase our comparative advantages in relation to other markets, or markets with which we share in one or another common destiny. In the debate so far, there has been a lot of debate on the very structure of the support itself, and in this sense a pretty good illustrative table on page 11 of this report. There seem to be a few irrefutable facts about that. The first fact is that the total amount of support in all actual levels and of all kinds of support to reduce them overall, and the second thing that actually is colleagues and colleagues defeatably, which is that not only nominally, because it happens with all the support but in fact in the share and in importance significantly reduce support for research, development, support for innovation. And I repeat, not only in absolute terms, which would then be appropriate somewhere if it were in proportions and that it was following the fall of all other support but actually falling and their share. When we look at it chronologically, in fact, over the last three years, we see that, in fact, support for research, development and innovation fell from some 2.19% to 1.60%. Supports to perfect from 9.5% to 0.62% and these are dramatic and worrying figures. And it seems to me that it's actually a one-and-a-half picture of something that we like to beat as a society of knowledge and what we like to admire and say is that our society is a society of knowledge. My colleagues and colleagues, the knowledge society is looking at these very sad figures on page 11 of this report and we show that there is no D from the knowledge society and that is very accurate and verifiable and eloquent. A few more things. The report here finds that this fall in support of research and development is understandable in view of the crisis. I wouldn't agree with Mrs. Spevec if the crisis made him understand. On one surface level, maybe he can be understandable. However, countries that hold to themselves, countries that are thinking about their future, countries that are thinking about their progress right at the time of the crisis, are increasing support and increasing investment in research, in development, innovation because they are deeply aware that they are in fact the only sectors and actually the only activities that can be some kind of cover and pull the story forward. And I absolutely agree with the second part of that sentence of your report, that is, the finding that the decline of support for research and development is an indicator that does not guarantee fast recovery and growth, the competitiveness of Croatian entrepreneurs. And that's where I absolutely agree with you. But about that, and it seems to me that there is a consensus in today's debate here in the hall today. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues what we're going to do with that consensus. What we're going to do is we're all here today agreeing that this isn't good, that this structure isn't responding, that we need to increase this support. Are we going to change the laws that they're going to say we're going to increase our support. Should we change the budget to change the amounts or stop saying no, it is not good for Croatia's future, it is not good for Croatia's future competitiveness and for the recovery from the crisis and we will end the debate, we will go home and find the same thing next year. And on this point, I think that we should all be aware, despite the very important role of the Government on this subject, that politics is actually determined here in the Croatian Parliament – support, their amounts, their ratios are defined through laws, through the state budget. And we have determined, i.e. You who supported it have determined such a policy. I ask all those especially from the ruling majority who have agreed that such a policy is not good at supporting this development. What are you gonna do? What are we going to suggest? Can we agree that we are going with a common conclusion as the Croatian Parliament since the consensus exists towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia, let's say let's people change politics. I mean, we all agree on that unless some people said something they didn't mean. And it's late for 2010, she's already moved a lot. I'm asking you, it's over. I'm afraid it's too late for 2011. What we're going to do in 2012. Second, about this report. It seems to me, and with regard to the support structure, that one part, especially through some sectoral support, and especially through those that cost a lot of money, so in which we invest a lot of money, we actually co-workers and colleagues run social policy, and it seems to me that once in the Parliament we should say so. It's unacceptable, unsustainable and irrational. And if we don't realize that actually support, but in those sectors, in those industries, those horizontal support that can create a comparative advantage, which can strengthen competitiveness, give some kind of new and added value all the opposite of that is, in fact, a kind of waste of money. Because investing in uncontrolled or semi-controlled conditions to say so in sectors that have not experienced structural changes, which do not create a new value, which are not even with these aids in this amount of self-sustainable or in any way self-development is nothing more than a waste of money, according to a strong qualification. We could say more clearly that it is actually the conduct of some social policy, which is that we understand each other perfectly legitimate, perfectly legal, necessary in Croatian society. However, not to lead social policy through the state support institute. And it actually seems to me a trap, but also a kind of manipulation of such a system of state aid that needs to be cut as soon as possible and with such a policy should be stopped as soon as possible. And in the end maybe one and technically, but not just a technical note to the agency itself. It would be good if we got annual reports for the last year by at least half that next year. Specific reports for 2011 at least until half of 2012. Because now to discuss 2009 and how we invested funds in 2009 is little and even bizarre because we can't really influence it in any way. It would be good if those reports could be prepared earlier, discussed earlier, that these discussions actually make some sense. And final. In this part of the report, I've been very informative. It's well done. In particular, as a non-professional woman in this area, she likes what is written and understandable and that we too who do not work, who are not economists, who are not lawyers, who are not involved in this policy, we can actually understand what this is about. But I stress that the consensus that I hope here is achieved that actually investment and support in innovation, in development, is actually the only excessive policy for countries in crisis especially for small countries that have no other comparative advantages except for people and human knowledge, which is more so that the Republic of Croatia will tomorrow, while it will send a full member of the European Union, will come out on that common market, and simply we will not be able to compete with anything other than our human capital and the knowledge that our people possess. What we are doing through this poor state support policy is, in fact, the opposite of policies in developed countries, which, in this sense, horizontal support and current intervention support are just connecting things that bring a new value, not actually those that are mere consumption, which, to make the thing the worst, does not allow to maintain these systems, let alone create new values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67649	Thank you. Mr. Agent Iron Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67650	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, all three points in total, so I'll be brief. On the one hand, what the state and state support are for. On the other hand, what state support is used in times of crisis. And on the third hand, the case of Croatia. State support is actually the lever in which the state improves or those branches where it is very good to be even better, or those branches that the state needs or the political community is not sufficiently developed. Therefore, state support is one of the basic indicators of both political and economic health or health, of course, in the appropriate environment. Secondly, in times of crisis, two actually happened. On the one hand, there was an urgent need or the creation of state needs or the rational use of these state aids, so that the well-being of the vast majority of the population could be maintained, that one part of the people would not lose their existence in a transmitted sense, and that actually these state support could overcome that moment of crisis or that crisis gap to someone... And that is exactly what happened in the world's most developed countries, which suffered primarily financial crises that then went into economic crisis, where state aids and the crisis were overcome. [[You don't understand.]] Only the United States of America, which has been supported by private banks, the experiences of Great Britain, about France, England, Germany, not to speak. Secondly, during these interventions, state interventions to state aid is a redefined state position, and more or less today's state in the developed world is an intervention state. Or otherwise, without state support, a whole series of sectors could not survive, regardless of all the recommendations and even the legislation of the European Union. What's going on with Croatia? Does Croatia invest its resources, does the Croatian state invest its resources in what Croatia needs most, or what Croatia can do most successfully, and perhaps fastest to get out of the crisis? In the developed world it became quite clear that the most productive factor today is knowledge, not knowing how, but innovation knowledge, for which a proper level of education is needed, and actually science has become the greatest or strongest production force. That is why the European Union has adopted several recommendations asking its members not to reduce funding for investment in science and education in times of crisis, but rather, if possible, to increase them. That is why some countries took tens of billions of euros in credit, so that they could invest in science, innovative technologies and their future economic development. Therefore, Germany quickly recovered to other measures by investing in science. So it's a smart investment in science and education that actually leads to sustainable development, and what the country in these examples could see is the fastest and possibly most sustainable one coming out of the crisis. In Croatia, investment in science, state support for science, for innovation falls. They're going down. And not a little bit, but a significant one. Croatia is a country that has become a poor, uneducated population, relatively large potential, but a terrible little exploitation of all these potentials. Among other things, because the state does not make optimal use of its potential. And this report shows us that there are funds, it's just a question of whether they're investing in real projects. Weak education, poor investment in science will show great pains in the short term, and in the medium term, it will actually lead to an even greater collapse than what we are in today, and it is high time on the one hand to make that fact known, and on the other hand to get rid of ourselves, to say goodbye to such a policy, and to invest in what, if not already our experiences, are then the experiences of others most productive and to say so for the human factor, the best investments. Science and education, I think they're in it without competition. Unfortunately, those in Croatia are falling.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67651	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67652	Honored Mr. Vice President, Ms. Spevec and her associate, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I will continue to track down these previous two exhibitions, and I will immediately jump to the top of page 25, in which you say the long-term fall in investment in science and education, given the crisis times in which the economy was operating, is still an indicator that does not guarantee the rapid recovery and growth of the competitiveness of Croatian entrepreneurs. So you have accurately diagnosed that the lack of investment in science and education can result, and will likely result in a very long questionable recovery of the Croatian economy and society, at a time when the European economy is already significantly recovering. What did America do at the time of the greatest crisis of the Cold War, when they began to lose the space race, after the Soviets successfully launched the first artificial satellite? They put several fantastic high values billions of dollars into the system of education and science at the time. What have they done now in times of crisis? They also stepped up investment in science and education. What does the EU do today? Here, in December, it adopted a Strategy on thematic areas of interest for the EU's society and economy. They have adopted a long-term strategy, not only thematic areas of research but also ways of investing in these areas as well as allocating funds. It is areas of an open and competitive economy, the development of a small carbon dioxide-based economy, sustainable management of natural resources, food safety and general use subjects. Then, the nuclear sector involving nuclear safety, crisis management and reference materials and measurement. Watch out, measurement and reference materials have been placed in one of these seven thematic areas of interest for the European economy because satellite balances according to some indicators suggest that measurement in one way or another affects the creation of more than 30% of GDP in developed countries. What have we done in that segment? Absolutely nothing. Looking at what the Ministry of Science, Education and Support Sports has spent on, it has invested in the Croatian Innovation Technology System Programme... And a test and various entrepreneurs, but where's the Merit Institute? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, there's been a break from the National Measurement Institute. We've lost traceability for mass and density. The functioning of the National Measurement Institute, which was to be operational under the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has not yet been secured. This questioned and fulfilled the temporary closed chapter – Freedom of the movement of slaves. This Regulation shall enter The Stabilisation and Association Agreement stipulates that Croatia must have a functional Meriting Institute, and that is also the condition for maintaining a multilateral agreement signed by the Croatian Accreditation Agency with the European Co-operation for Accreditation and the follow-up of the multilateral agreement and agreement with the International Accreditation Agency. So we have over 210 accredited bodies, including certification houses, test laboratories that use the services of national measuring laboratories that collapse, do not exist almost, although the National Mass and Density Laboratory received money through the CARDS project, pardon not the CARD project, but some mutual projects with Germany were not able to maintain it. Which is a kind of rain and our German friends and sponsors. There is a collapse of the entire innovation system, infrastructure and quality. It will come, a multilateral agreement will become a question. The supervision of the Croatian accreditation agency is now in a few months. To us measuring, the National Measurement Institute is not functioning, it is under direct supervision and jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science. Uncertainly, it is highly unlikely that the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Science cannot agree to get these 2 laboratories out of the inappropriate environment of the State Bureau of Measurement, which is a state administrative institution. What does he have with fundamental measurement that is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Science? Why is this not settled in spite of the government's repeated declaration efforts? It's uncertain. The fact is that this report shows that the funds exist, but at least in this small segment that is extremely significant and can ultimately be infused with unforeseen, incredible consequences for the theory of chaos that even conditions for the re-opening of Chapter 1, and that probably when we meet all the conditions for EU accession, we may stumble on such a silly step and challenge our ultimate goal, which is full membership in the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67653	Thank you. Mr. Representative Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67654	Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Spevec, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's one quality material, a good report, and it can actually give us an excellent basis for the debate, but what's far more valuable and for the suggestion of conclusions. Unfortunately, this material is corrupt with the government's opinion. Based on this material, which is serious, which warns what is happening, the Government's suggestion to the Parliament is accepted as a report. I go to every report if it's high-quality it can get a series of activities that someone needs to do. And it was the Government who, on the basis of this report, should have given the competent ministries a series of orders and activities that we needed in the Parliament to give a basis to draw certain conclusions. But the government didn't take this report seriously enough, so she sent this conclusion. I ask you in 2009 already deep in the crisis, deep in the problems, we begin to lose jobs, economic downturn, indifference, tax revenue and contributions problem, years with a mass of problems. And what can we conclude, can we be satisfied with the level of support? Well, no. too little support for the economic situation in 2009, too little, not enough. And it just needed to do something, because it's important for this year to define what to do. No, I don't. It is unacceptable that such small support is unacceptable that in 2009 less support is almost a billion compared to 2008 and the crisis has started chasing and simply chasing Croatia. Yes, that is the conclusion that the government had to make and that it had to suggest what it was reading. So let's move on, where did most of the support go? Most of the support for agriculture, shipbuilding, railways. And if we turn it off, let's think about television when the contract is signed there won't be any more support. But the people of a billion and a half went to support the economic crisis of the Republic of Croatia in a severe economic crisis. Well, that doesn't satisfy it. I'm not even gonna stick around right now with the problem of having a fall in support of people's employment. Well, that's the year when the escalation of these over 100,000 unemployments we got at the office started, and we have over 60% drop in support. This is something that the government had to force on a series of activities, on a number of proposals that it makes to change, how to hire, how to use these support, so the whole of Europe gives support. But of course what's our problem? Our problem is the three support we give to agriculture, railways and shipbuilding. So allow me to stay more on the railroad and shipbuilding, because neither agriculture is here on two pages is just indicated who gave it to. It's gone 3 billion 670 million, and what's most important is whether we can be satisfied with the necessary changes in the agricultural sector so that we can say that they're usefully spent. The big ones are getting bigger every year, the question of whether they're enough. But are we getting the effect that the government predicted that agriculture would be ready for the battle with European competition. I won't be long because I haven't seen a word of it in the material. Let's go to the shipbuilding. What about shipbuilding? Well, the tragedy is that the entire support is in the unpaid as it is called guarantees, the majority of the support is in unpaid guarantees. It's not support, it's a force of opportunity support. And simple shipyards don't execute obligations, they don't pay loans, they don't repay loans, and they don't do it for the government. It can't be the support in the true sense of how to train shipbuilding. Therefore, huge money invested in shipbuilding without the result that this shipbuilding can simply be ready for any competition and that with these support it is coming out of something. What we are giving through guarantees is not support in terms of recovery, these are support by law enforcement, by the force of some EU regulation. So we're wondering what she was supposed to do? So, I can't not go back to 2008, in the 6th month in this House we discussed the SDP's interpretation of shipbuilding. What did we suggest? Don't go into privatisation processes, it won't work, we're going into the shipbuilding process. Interpletion not accepted. The restructuring and restructuring support is real support. And we could also be able to declare this as a support that should be invested to make a change in shipbuilding, simply to define through structural changes where the shipyards, which are the basic activities, how all that is unfounded to remove and to privatise, not basic activities, are part of the privatisation of the shipyard. No, I don't. In 2008 an agreement with the EU signed two failed tenders. If we were to watch again and the third somewhere, we'd repeat the fourth contest and what we came up with. Now the restructuring work that the shipbuilding administrations have prepared will try to do some potential I would say new investors. Eight, nine, ten, lost 2.5 years where we could spend far more reasonable money and have today and far more competitive shipyards, more capable with a smaller share I would say the guarantees we had to pay by force instead of giving real support against which the EU would have nothing against either, and they would. She wouldn't mind. But here, it's important not to solve problems, not to bring actions, so I'd say, and even according to this report, we don't want to talk about what we're going to do tomorrow. Let's move on to the railroad. See how much you invest in the freighter, pulling trains this thing, and let's ask each other if it's useful to invest money. In 2003, compositions, trains from international companies, will start chasing Croatian railways. Will the Croatian railway in the cargo section, passenger section and this be competitive in the first place? He won't. Average age over 40, inadequateness, enormous consumption, better not to mention all the problems. They haven't structurally resolved at all, but we drop a billion and 100 million each year. Where are the effects? What are our estimates? Are we, by law, the most responsible in the House, are we to be serious about the railroad? Are we even aware that in two years, we will either sell out for one kuna as well as a shipyard or shut down the cargo and tow trains? And how much money is going on this? How much money? No system programs, no simple clear messages about what it is and how we're going to do it. We're spending money. And then, of course, there's no science, there's no employment either, and I'd say those horizontal support needed by both small entrepreneurs and those, and we don't all talk about those who have gone into crisis and suffered crisis shocks because we can't help them with more money because we're exhausting ourselves on these projects that unfortunately don't produce results, we don't see what tomorrow will be with all of them. So, the report's okay. But this view of the government really shows that the government has not seriously read the report, because if it had read it, there would have been a series of measures for the competent ministries, and a message to us in the Parliament that we are dealing with. Therefore, the damage of this report is because serious people have not read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67655	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Linic, you're talking about that right when the crisis is at its peak we're reducing support. However, when you go to see that the total support has been reduced from 11.3 to 8.7 billion, it is seen that the support not monitored by this agency, which refers to agriculture, has actually been increased. Their share rose from 29% in two years to over 42%. They are mainly in this period of production, so they are focused on production. What the European Union did when it had such well-conceived agricultural support. First it changed the structure of production, then it increased production, and it increased competitiveness to deal with rural development today, how to keep people in the rural area, in the village, how to keep them busy in agricultural production. We're moving on to that system this year. So, we no longer have production support, and this creates a growing problem for our peasants, who in all this period since the start of negotiations with the European Union, so here we are, when we come to the fact that we also have to apply a common agricultural policy and that adequate support in agriculture has actually come to the conclusion that most of our farmers, if we apply the current Agricultural and Fisheries Support Act, will not be able to realise such support at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67657	Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Spevec, with an associate. So, the report discussed today at the High House, unfortunately, until the debate of counterpart Linic, in principle, no one touched on the fundamental problems, and this report speaks of 8 billion and 690 million which are given, although the part that is not in the Agency's jurisdiction, which is the support in agriculture, is being eliminated, and we remain at least at 5 billion. However, I will try to move my debate away from politics, bring it down to reality and maybe try to ask myself some questions and try to answer some questions, which is why in Croatia we have been supporting for years and what companies we have been supporting. We can go to two and eight billion to restructure the shipbuilding. Unfortunately, she hasn't spent two others, two thirds, two fourths, and we can move on. And we can draw a line that's the result of what maybe together politically we haven't been able to do something that we should have done. The result will be that the shipbuilding has swallowed over the last eight years 24.25 billion kuna. That'll be the final result. And what do we have today? We have a situation that all shipyards are in a catastrophic situation, and sometimes we push politics ahead of common sense and economic logic best shows the story of this latest guarantee around 3 May, where if it wasn't given the guarantee of the state everything would turn upside down, and we even went so far that the representative body of the local self-government unit made a decision on the guarantee even though they knew it was illegal. So let's not accuse each other when we're just all acting very much alike in a given situation. And I repeat, unfortunately most of the support in recent years, and even today in Croatia goes to the companies that we are trying to save and which, unfortunately, most of them are not ready to restructure, and that we will try and document and argue that by model C. We can rewrite it to a model or law that was in 2002. It was that law on income, not the claims charged, where it tried to help companies to resolve some of the obligations they had made, and in such a way that the cleared balances started tomorrow at the end, and they could only do so if they made their own little restructuring program. We are now given that the crisis has gone with a different model and we have tried it as much as possible for the European Union, because we need to understand that no matter what it was in 2009, we are viewed with a double bat, a double increase compared to others, and I will say something about it later. So together with the agency we tried to build a maximum liberal model that, where we went practically to the limit that tomorrow the European Commission tells us that we have broken certain directives. But what happened. According to model C, I think we just solved one or two companies. And why is that? I'm going to say it here openly, because no one was ready to restructure. No one was ready to restructure and no one was ready for ownership restructuring. Well, you can't forgive someone for 30, 40, 50 or 10 million kuna taxes, meaning the revenues of the state budget without him being willing to restructure the company, let the state own it, and let's go every half year, for a year privatize but a business that normally operates. It's model C and it's true. And we simply can't get away from it because a lot of these companies have exactly been among those thirty-thousand-thousand blocked companies that I'm telling me about is 35 billion indifference and that indifference has been dragging on practically since the beginning of the Croatian state. It's facts and it's the truth that we can't escape from. And we can hide as much as we want, we can politically accuse each other as much as we want. Now I can charge my colleague Linic and SDP with shipbuilding as much as I want. However, what he did to me or he did to me. What was not done then was not done in the same way. We have a situation today that we have. What, though, is happening in these crisis years in the world? There's no competition. State interventionism reigns. I'll just try to illustrate one example, so on the pages... An illustration of how many countries have invested in the world has been published, so I can say money in my economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you know what happened in America? If what was pumped from 2008 to 2010, they could turn into $100 bills, make a building twice the size of the Empire state building, and turn it into one dollar bills, they could make a highway from Earth to the moon and there and back. But that is unfortunately something that has not been allowed for Croatia, because we are in the final phase of negotiations for entry into the European Union. There is something that has been helped by companies, which has not been seduced through these support, but I don't think it's worth complaining about, unfortunately, that's how it is. However, we also have a saying that has ruled for the past 10 years in all transition countries, which has been privatized, privatized, privatized and privatized. That's what all economic experts used to say. Today, given the crisis and in view of everything that is happening, there is a new economic theory, whether it is smarter to restructure and put the company on its feet, and then privatise it or do what is happening to us. Look, we're making it because of the war, which because of this, which because of that, many trading houses are in a lot of trouble and many hotel houses, catering houses, many are precisely among these 30,000 blocked balance sheets that are catastrophic. And you, when you go to sell a company like that, no one in your right mind is going to buy it because first it's a huge debt, the balance is catastrophic, and on the other hand you never know what our people say is right behind the hill, what kind of claim they're going to put on you tomorrow. However, if we went according to the model to restructure these companies, to put them on our feet, to clean up their balance sheet, the privatisation process would be where and where the better, the better and the most important thing that people care about would open up jobs and it would work. So, I think, unfortunately, a very high-quality material, a material that is both technically and analytically well-placed today in this House, should serve us perhaps to open up some of the topics that I personally think about, and I think that while I was also a minister when I was talking about the budget, I was talking about some of the topics that they simply don't have a place for politics because the workers "3 May", "Brodoslita" or any company that is in trouble, they don't care how much we're going to break up here. They want to know what happens to their company. And that is why it should be recalled that all the great forces used all the instruments, and if it has never been worth the competition rule in the last 50 years, that was the last three years, and we need to make that clear. Everyone is saved as they could. Well, you're not in Europe, the European Union countries couldn't agree on a single policy in the economic crisis, but each country worked its own models to save its industry. Someone was successful, someone was less successful. Take a look at today's EU balance sheets if you exclude Germany and Sweden. Then the macroeconomic indicators are completely different. But when you put that balance in Germany and Sweden, then these indicators are good. If you exclude from the balance sheet the part of the balance sheet relating to their companies outside their country of origin is again the result of defeating. So, we simply end up with this, we simply have to strive for the support system in the Republic of Croatia to begin to follow that famous pattern, the assessment of fiscal impact. And simply if we give someone support we have to check what that support has brought, did that support follow that program that he proposed. And at the end of that ten or 100 thousand kuna support, it's throwing money into the wind. I've been saying that for years, for the simple reason that a company that has traffic 50 or 10 million kunas does not mean anything to it. But give her 5 or 10 million kuna support, let her strictly implement and monitor how she will benefit from that support, I guarantee that 99% of these support will yield results. Therefore, you need to take a good look at the structure of these aids, you need to look at where all these 600 million are also giving. And also to support science that, only for what, does everything that is invested in science. You have one big $65 million project signed five years ago with the World Bank about scientific institutions and the economy connecting, that scientific projects can practically be given to the use of the economy, not to end up somewhere in drawers or cabinets and none of them benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67659	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67660	In many ways, I agree with my colleague Shucker, but perhaps when we return to the past. The coalition government has fully rehabilitated the agricultural sector, 10 billion and implemented certain structural changes. And remember IPK Osijek, PIK Vrbovac, Belje. And what was good, the later HDZ government completed the processes, unfortunately we didn't recover much, we sold for 1 kuna, but in the good part the sector recovered because there was this continuity, there was this sequel. And the support was given right through the recovery of the dubiosis, etc. In 2002, the same thing was made for shipbuilding, 8 billion support was given through the recovery of losses and everything. The government has adopted a restructuring programme, a programme to bring the Queens and Rijeka together, May 3rd or Brodosplit, Brodotrogir together, decisions to restructure everything. Former Minister Jurcic conducted an inspection and a negative assessment in 3 months 2003 to all shipyards. Therefore, other than the Investment and Loss Recovery Programme, very clear data are that all of this has been left behind. There was no follow-up, there was no follow-up unlike the agricultural sector, and that's why we have certain successes and results, in the shipbuilding we only have new dubiosis.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67661	Replication response, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, I think that fellow Hebrang might say a little more about the privatisation process of PIK Vrbovac and what the problems were. And in the end, honestly speaking, all the happiness so the process and the PIK Vrbovac and Belja ended there that only the process could and could pass because they merged production and... I'll be honest with you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if it wasn't for you, you know that all the stories of about 1 kuna and so on. They just wouldn't be effective. And the other thing, they entered a system that could have been charged with 50 or 100m euros and invested in these processes because if it hadn't been for you today, you would have talked about Belje and PIK Vrbovac in a completely different way. Because I'm going to tell you honestly, certain studies from '97. For years, the PIK Vrbovac was employed by prominent foreign houses, saying that PIK Vrbovac could not employ more than 700, 800 people. Look how many people work today. So let's let go of the theoretical stories. It's one real life, and when you put certain economic events in time and space where it happens, then it's a success, if it doesn't. And the story of shipbuilding, I just wouldn't want to open up some things, because if some things had started, probably no one would have stopped them. Unfortunately, neither of you had any information, nor did we have any real information from the management of what is really going on there, because I remember one meeting from 2005 or 2006 when they tried to offer us such or such balances, which was what it looked like. But I say this is unfortunately a sad Croatian story that will cost us all a lot, because perhaps we as the two largest political parties have failed to reach a consensus on some things.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67663	And Mr. Agent Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67664	I agree in many ways with you when you've implicated much more than the fact that every investment in science is not good for the economy, but this investment in science must be focused on certain goals, it has to be different in this kind of language, it has to be smart, it has to be rational. But it always fascinates me from the beginning when government officials say things like it's none of their business. For years, it has misinvested in science in the Republic of Croatia, for years we have warned of it, and for years, something has developed in science that may one day come into light, and what is called the scientific mafia. Money was scattered in science to a great extent, and of course there was no possibility, actually there were possibilities, but in such a way it could not be rationally financed by science. I'm wondering if instead of 3 and a half billion dollars a year, we'd give 2 billion a year, and we'd be in charge of science with a billion a year for two, three years to repair agricultural production, but it'd have to be a rational and smart investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67665	Replication response, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67666	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Flego, look. With all due respect to what you said, however, I mentioned to you a project that the government and the ministry together with the World Bank tried to do for a simple reason why, I would not want to offend anyone, but unfortunately a lot of projects that are called scientific endings somewhere in drawers are of no use to the economy. That's what I'm talking about. Because look at me if we don't try to find that symbiosis and connection first, then we can't talk about investing like this, like that. But as for science, science problems, universities, I'm not professional enough, and I wouldn't get involved, I wouldn't want to get in the middle of the controversy with you about it at all, I'm only talking about one segment that unfortunately never came back to life. Start with the shipping institute, through the Ruger and a series of other institutions. Here, take the problem, actually, EU funds. Why does not all higher education institutions, all Croatian institutes include in creating projects to withdraw money from? No one should force them to do it, they can do it themselves, because simply no one else in Croatia can do it except them, because there is no such knowledge. So let us not call upon and pray for someone else to make for us, so let each one make for himself. And they will automatically open up a space for investment in science and still earn some money, which they will be able to spend in something other than naked survival.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67667	Thank you. Final review, Mrs. Olga Spevec.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67668	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am extremely pleased to say, regardless of these remarks on the technical part of the report and the up-to-date, given this extremely high-quality debate that was held here on the report. It's actually the purpose of our report, to give it the basis for this debate. And for the first time, this is the fifth I think report in order that the agency is working on state aid, the first time we have really achieved the goal of talking about how state support is put into operation of the industrial and economic policy of the Republic of Croatia. Why does it matter now? Because we have to admit some facts, and they are that state support everywhere in the world is an instrument of economic policy. By entering the European Union, we are entering a market of 500 million people, a market that has about 200 times more purchasing power than Croatia. It is an opportunity, it is a challenge for the Croatian economy, but it is a terrible threat. And if we don't qualify our economy and support for that competition, we're going to be in a very, very difficult situation. And those who are good tomorrow will probably be in a position to fight for survival, and those who are bad about them will not even talk. So these messages, especially in this last few hours of debate that you've given, regardless, I know myself that I'm a person of profession and I don't deal with politics, whoever gave them, gave them in the right direction. And that should be how you actually enter the European Union, with a comprehensive debate, so let our report be a cause. I am saying infinitely satisfied, and I think the next document that will have to do, whatever government, if not for this one, but for next year there will be a document on the industrial policy of the Republic of Croatia, which will include a part of the, very important part of the support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67669	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9:30 with a debate on the final draft of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. It's supposed to be on the air tomorrow morning, but that's all we need to discuss. At 11 o'clock, we should complete the agenda with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. At half 2 is a session of the Committee, the parent Committee on the Constitution on the Law on Conflict of Interest, and at 15 o'clock there was also a debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. ... Revision next week. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-09-0.u67670	We move to the 2009 Annual State Aid Report, the applicant is the Competition Protection Agency. The debate is concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the parent parliamentary committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: an annual report on State aid for 2009 is hereby adopted. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This year's report was accepted by the majority of 104 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 2 against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We're moving on with the session. And with a point announced this morning, which is the final proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. I'd like to warn the clubs before we move to the agenda point and ask the clubs that we'll complete this session's agenda at 11 o'clock. It's very important that we do it this morning because this afternoon would be a debate on this agenda point that we've linked to closing 23. The negotiating chapters with the EU, so I ask that we really be here at 11 o'clock so that we can vote on the addition of the agenda. And now we move on to - Final proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 544 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The government has submitted amendments and they become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment was also submitted by MP Zvonimir Mršić. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Management Mr Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
