ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67672	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. As you said in your announcement, this is a second reading or a final proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. What we were saying in the introduction in the first reading of this law I would only briefly repeat that this law for the first time has made the financing of electoral promotion at all levels of the elections that was partly regulated through 5 laws now placed into one single law and in this way I believe that we have made the entire funding procedure more clear as regular work of political parties and political entities, as well as the financing of the time when it moves into electoral promotions that we have estimated enough and in this law to say that it is a year before each individual election is held. The government has submitted its amendments to this law because the text of the law is also in line with the proposals of the European Commission and the bodies working for the European Commission, where they gave suggestions that we sought to bring into the text of the law and correct, or make it clearer. It is aimed at harmonising the position on how to control the financing and regular work of parties and to finance the electoral promotion. Now, this law sets out what has been through these five laws, which is that the State Audit Office is doing a review of regular financing and political parties and political entities. So it's about mayors, independent candidates, candidates for representatives of national minorities in parliament. What is important in this law has also been determined by the authority of the State Election Commission which has received some new powers from this law. So, apart from the monitoring and implementation of the elections, this law, the State Election Commission has been given the opportunity and control and control of the financing of the electoral promotion of all parties and of all candidates. Which means, on the one hand, the obligations of all who participate in election games to publish information on sources and types of funding and amounts of financial resources that they receive for their election promotion. Therefore, on the one hand, their obligation to publish these data on the other hand the possibility and function of the State Election Commission that all these cash flows, whether public funds or funds obtained from private sources, may be controlled by the State Election Commission. Of course not only by itself but also by using all resources or if you want all services that have the jurisdiction of financial business control whether they are public funds or private sources of financing. We have said here and in reason that we need to strengthen the administrative capacities of the State Election Commission because in the current composition, as it is currently formed, this obligation could not be carried out in the best possible way. We believe that for the start of the work of the State Election Commission it would be enough to expand their composition with several experts, our first assessment was five experts who could carry out this necessary control and, at their request, the other bodies would report on how to fund the electoral promotion. What I would say is a fundamental difference in the text of this Law between two readings, what else is governed by this Law are the limits of the funds that can be used for financing and for the electoral promotion of all candidates, as well as the amount of funds provided in the budgets, whether national, for the costs of parliamentary parties and MPs, whether at local level in the budgets in which the cost of funding is paid. So far, the amount in the State budget has been 0.065%, our proposal was also in the first reading, remains the same now, to be the amount of 0.05% of the expenditure achieved, which would mean at the annual level 10% less than those costs have been so far. In doing so, we believe that we will contribute in a way other than control to contribute and save the use of these funds, the funds will be allocated according to the won parliamentary mandates, and in this way we believe that we have equated those who compete for the use of these funds. We have received some suggestions through discussions and discussions on committees, the government has now received amendments, Mrsic's amendments, and by the time we vote on this law, we will declare all proposals and amendments. What was perhaps to mention in the end, the debate on the Committee on the Constitution is the fact that we have limited the funds given for campaigns to political parties for representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, which are now limited to 50 thousand kuna, the debate highlights the possibility that the government will consider raising that amount, given that the amount of costs to the executive authorities is allocated in accordance with the size of these units of local self-government, and depending on its size, the amount of funds for executive power goes. The proposal was for the government to eventually improve its work for members of the representative bodies in the same way according to the size of the units of local self-government. I don't think we've even had any other objections, and I believe that this law, except that it is in line with the remarks that we have received from the European Commission, is suitable for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67673	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, Mr. President of the Committee, Vladimir Seks, Vice-President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67674	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 66th session held on 9 February this year discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. The Committee discussed the final draft of the law on the basis of its competence as a parent working body. As regards the legislative proposal that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the legislation of the European Union, the applicant's representative pointed out that the basis of the debate on the Proposal for a Law in the Croatian Parliament and the proposal and opinions of the State Audit Office and the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia were conducted and additional consultations with the representatives of the European Union, and the Government submitted amendments to the final text of the law proposing to clearly distinguish the competence of the State Audit Office and the State Election Commission. According to the proposal, the State Election Commission is responsible for overseeing the financing of the electoral promotion, while the State Audit Office conducts an audit of the annual financial operations and annual financial reports of political parties, independent representatives, and independent members of the representative bodies of the unit of local, regional and regional self-government. The board unanimously supported all these government amendments. In the discussion, the Committee members made concrete remarks on certain solutions in the final draft law. In Article 12(2), it is necessary to specify how the amount of the price and the amount of the basic discount for the media advertising of the electoral promotion should be published. In Article 13(1) of the word "local daily press", the words "local weekly press" should be replaced and the deadline for publication of indicative information on the amount and source of own resources of candidates for election promotion on the website should be extended until the official election results are published. The provisions of Article 17(1) of subparagraph 2 should be reviewed in a way that determines the total amount of funds for the electoral promotion and leaves the freedom of political parties to determine for themselves how much they will spend in a particular constituency. In particular, the provision of Article 17(1), subparagraph 9, which provides for a limitation of the total amount of promotion costs in the election for members of the representative bodies of the unit of local, regional or regional self-government. In the debate, the Committee members stressed that the provision should be amended in a way that takes into account the number of residents of local and regional self-government units as proposed for their executive bodies. In Article 23(1), the word "fundation" should be replaced by the word "fundation". I should be able to examine the solution referred to in Article 46(1) which proposes a fine for non-compliance with the value of the donated product or service referred to in the invoice issued with their market value. In this regard, the Commission notes that, in the light of the reasons set out in the opening decision, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that, in the light of the reasons set out in recitals (a) to (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 107(3)(c) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the Commission has not taken into account the nature of the aid in question. The debate also expressed its opinion that the final draft law did not resolve financial supervision at the time of the election promotion itself, but that the controls were carried out after the promotion and the basis of the documentation submitted. In this regard, it has been pointed out that amendments 11 and 16. The Government of the Republic of Croatia allows the State Election Commission to monitor the financing of the electoral promotion during the elections itself. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament the Law on the financing of political promotion activities in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67675	Thank you. Do other committee rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67676	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. So one of the most important laws to prevent corruption in political parties and prevent corruption in general is the Law on the financing of political parties. But we are passing this most important law in 2011 following the painful experiences that the Croatian political body and Croatian society experienced in the financing of political parties. So, after experience of FIMI media and after EU pressure from the Croatian government, this Croatian government decided after 7 years to radically amend the Law on the financing of political parties. This says that the government does not lead, does not create a policy for an EU warning helmet or is being coerced by real events. This cannot be disputed from the accompanying. So it is certain that after 7 years of HDZ authorities before the elections themselves comes the Law on the financing of political promotion and what it looks like. So we at the SDP club agree to limit the cost of election promotion with them being unreal. First of all, for election promotion in cities and counties, the amount is very unreal. Secondly, for the promotion of political parties in the parliamentary elections, the elections have been paved by election units. There is no freedom left for a political party to create its own promotion in those constituencies where it considers it its interest. Secondly, it is very important to see and to point out that the cap on funding remains in the old way, so the people they can sponsor donate to the parties. For example, what I'm going to say is, there's no argument in the proposal for government law, that's Article 23. No parties, natural persons, are excluded from donations to political parties. Therefore, foreign persons under this law can finance political parties in promotion. There is no reason nor has the Government stated it, nor do I see that some stranger would invest money in the political promotion of the Croatian party in the interests of the party, and that remains as a possibility, Article 23. Then, in that same article, it is prohibited to donate or finance the electoral promotion of legal persons' political parties or when a tax collection procedure is conducted. Why did we limit ourselves to the procedure? There is no reason for someone who is liable to a state tax or some other giving to finance the political party's promotional activity and then put on glasses and not see that his interest is entirely different, not the party's political promotion. If someone in debt therefore reached the claim and he financed the political party, not paying the tax, it remained as a possibility. Therefore, all those legal and natural persons who failed to comply with obligations to society from municipality to city, there is no reason to include them in donations and the possibility of donations for election promotion of political parties. This remains in Article 23. According to the European Commission's own recognition, the European Commission has excluded the Ministry of Finance from overseeing the spending of political parties in the election promotion, which is quite logical, because the European Commission told the government that the Ministry of Finance is not an independent body, as it is not. It is the government ministry in which the ruling have absolute influence and are responsible for their work. However, when it comes to determining the amount of money for the election promotion, then the government took Parliament and took on the responsibility and the authority to determine it as if the government were again an independent body. It is logical for Parliament to decide on the budgets. It is its electoral legal or at least electoral body such as the Committee on the Constitution, the Businessman and the political system so far. So the government combined suggestions and its own interests. And the government is to say unilaterally always unless it's the government of national unity or whatever it's called. Third, counterpart Seks, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, has now stated that the Government has reacted to its amendments to the basic text of the final proposal of the law in a way that gives greater authority to the State Election Commission to monitor the electoral promotion itself at the time of the election promotion. That's what we talked about on the Constitution Committee. That's one of the attempts, but let me put it this way without real tools, namely NGOs. In addition to making it possible for the State Election Commission to have tools both legal and financial and organisational and human, that in real political time alone, the election campaign itself can assess whether declared on financial documents and documents value corresponds to the factual situation on the ground. In other words, whether the election commission can count posters and determine whether the state in the documents is realistically shown. This must enable him, as we must establish that it is a national interest for all participants in the election campaign to make it possible for the public to see decisions and documents in the election promotion. In other words, whether private television is used by a political party must give the public an insight into the price list, the amount of discount and the minute of the promotional programme. Without that, only after the revision of documents and documents is only later, and if it is later, the reconstruction of events is both expensive and often impossible. As far as optimism is concerned, which is said to have prevented corruption or the illegal financing of political parties, so it would turn out that our experience in financing political parties is a product of poor normisation. So no law is valid, a positive regulation made possible what was happening. It's not the Fimi-media product of bad law, it's bad behavior and bad practice. If we don't have a body, we don't have instruments, we don't have to say the real possibility that control isn't ruled out to repeat such a situation. For this reason, I particularly stress that it is very important to train the State Election Commission as an independent body which was indeed created only to monitor, monitor, monitor and decide the elections, at least in the first degree, and such a pronounced solution does not offer this law. The step forward is absolutely, the step is forward, but it does not solve the essence of the problem. And just one more circumstance to point out. It is an article 46, I think we already mentioned it either at the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament or I don't know where. It is very important that political parties for donations, whether in nature or in services, must issue an account. But there is a problem where the value of the service or the value of the donation must be indicated in that account and that market value. That's what we talked about on the Constitution committee. So this is inaccurately formulated, it could cause very major recommendations and even abuses in assessing the donation itself or the service itself. It could therefore be acted for political reasons, not for legal or actual reasons to combat abuse in the financing of political parties. So is it possible to remain that the party itself determines the value, the market value of the donation either in nature, or in service, and that this is not disputed for the State Election Commission. So, the related article 46 and Article 10 seems to me to be this bill of law. All in all, it should be said that the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia will support adoption, will vote for this law, but we suggest that we have not taken the step we should have taken in this case and completed at least one activity in the electoral legislation. When we are not others, at least this activity ends or this law, this area regulates that there are no gaps left behind that will cause doubts about legal and fair electoral promotion when it comes to funding. That's what the government was supposed to do, but it didn't. Now we'll probably find out in practice in the future why she didn't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67677	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67678	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at the very beginning, I will point out that the Croatian Democratic Community's club supports the final draft law on the financing of political activities and election promotions, as well as amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the proposed legislative text of 8 February 2011. Since it is a final draft of the law at the very beginning, it is also necessary to analyse two new legal solutions in relation to the text of the law in the first reading and, in that sense, to underline two very important newspapers. Therefore, the first of these concerns the legislative regulation of the establishment of specific accounts for the financing of promotional activities at all levels, so in terms of the conduct of elections and election promotions. The second newspaper, i.e. improving the legal institute, is therefore indeed an improvement in the supervision of funding and political parties and election promotions, so it concerns the competence of the State Election Commission in relation to the competences of the State Office for Auditing and, of course, the competences of the Ministry of Finance. In real political time, I repeat, in real political time, the State Election Commission implements it as an independent and independent body while the State Audit Office conducts audit tasks as prescribed by law and international audit standards. In this respect, it is necessary to highlight in particular the provision of Article 37 of the proposed law which regulates financial supervision in the following way. Therefore, during the duration of the electoral promotion of the political party, the holders of independent lists and candidates are obliged to lead and I particularly stress the daily update of the records of all received donations and election promotion costs, and to provide the requested information to the State Election Commission at its request and during the duration of the election promotion. Therefore, there is a legal option based on the provision of Article 37 to carry out all those checks in real political time for, I would dare say the daily activities of political parties and independent candidates during the election promotion. So, it's not about a legal solution that would make it impossible, just when it's necessary or when things happen during election promotions, to control all those things that can in some sense be controversial. Therefore, the State Election Commission may, by virtue of the provision of Article 37, take advantage of that possibility and request these financial under the headings of the activities of political parties, independent candidates in real political time almost daily during the election promotion. The law also regulates the obligation of political parties to hold independent lists and candidates to make public specific data on the donations and costs of the election promotion at intervals, so seven days before the elections are held, and fifteen days after the official election results are announced. This obligation for a period of six months is also determined for donations received by political parties and independent representatives in the Croatian Parliament and independent members of the representative bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government during the year, so during the calendar year. Therefore, the establishment of an independent control mechanism in order to enable the implementation of basic checks and the application of sanctions shall be carried out, therefore, by establishing the basis of this law, an independent body of the National Election Commission. I think this is very important to emphasise while the role of the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance is based on legal provisions on control mechanisms in accordance with the laws governing their competences. Of the other legal solutions, I think it is very important to single out and support those legal provisions that apply in the first order to, therefore, limit the financial amounts of natural and legal persons for the purposes of electoral promotion and the financing of political parties by now, we have heard in the opening statement, that formula 30000 kuna, 100000 kuna and 200000 kuna depending on whether it is physical or legal relations which significantly reduced the amounts we had before. Second, the regulation of prohibited sources of funding, i.e. to answer the question from which sources and from which natural or legal persons are not allowed and under which conditions the financing of political parties and election promotions is subject. Of course, this is mentioned in article 23 of the proposed text of the law on which we have had some opportunities so far. I think this is a very important provision because, in fact, the direct, precise law determines the total of banned sources of funding, regardless of the financing of direct electoral activities or during the functioning of the political party throughout the calendar year. And a third thing, so sanctions. The sanctions should, in any event, be highlighted in the sense of extending the circle of sanctions which can be imposed for illegal financing or when it has been done beyond the provisions of this law, that is, against the law. It's final. The Croatian Democratic Community's club supports this bill of law and those legislation-provided solutions to the amendments submitted to the text of the law itself. We believe that in a maximum way, all types of illegal collection of funds have been prevented by the legal provisions, either in terms of election promotion or the functioning of political parties, which is also the basic intensity, the core, the meaning of the adoption of this law, that the funds are collected in a transparent manner, that the collection of funds and their spending in real political time can be controlled. And, of course, the entry into force and implementation of this law is reduced to the least possible measure of any form of corrupt behaviour in terms of raising funds for electoral promotion and for the functioning of political parties, which is very, therefore very important to stress that it is a modern law, one law that is absolutely enforceable, and when all forms of corrupt behaviour that can occur in terms of the functioning of political parties will be absolutely conscious of the least possible measure. And in that sense, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives absolutely supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67679	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67680	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a bill that I can say in advance on behalf of the HNS and HSU club that we generally support its efforts, and the idea that the final systematic issue of funding is being regulated not only by promotions in election campaigns, but that a legal framework is actually given which will bring in more light, or that it is a modern political expression of transparency in the functioning and financing of political parties, first of all, aware that they are behind us in the year, and unfortunately the practices that show that political corruption but also real financial corruption has certainly been affected and the space of action of political parties, and that is still done in a way that only those who are closer to the altar, so that the members of the political parties can behave in public and responsible terms of which they can make public and public decisions. The problem in our partytocracies is not only financial profiles, it goes deep into political culture, and in political tradition, goes deeper or better into the lack of political culture and political tradition, but also goes into the imposed models of electoral laws that produced this situation in which we are. We welcome, therefore, the fundamental idea that this area is systematised and that the law will regulate as much as possible the methods and procedures of financing political promotions, and that of all those who appear in election matches, regardless of which is party or independent candidates and lists, we also warn that there is also one practice in this law that we hold simply inadmissible. If you look at the date that carries the bill, then you'll see it's November 25, 2010. As of November 25th, this proposal stands under the roof of this house, so that the government from its session would probably send us on February 8th, no less than 16 amendments, so the capacity of this document is nothing more than changes and additions, serious changes and additions to one law. 16 amendments were formulated after two-and-a-half months of upholding the law here in the Croatian Parliament in the procedure. We don't think this is serious behavior, because before November 25, serious public debates were conducted and the first reading of this law, which showed that there were a whole series of illogical solutions to which unfortunately neither the Ministry of Administration nor the Government reacted, nor in this final bill of law. Speaking of something more concrete on the proposals covered by this final draft law, I announce that the HNS and HSU Club will submit amendments to the three proposed articles of this law. These are Articles 17, 18, and 19, and I will say something later on about concrete solutions. First of all, we believe that this is modernism, the ability for political parties to disabling themselves in all possible ways as something which is obviously harmful in the political system of a country, is extremely nakarad, no matter who encourages it or how, but demonizing political parties that end in such a way as to punish them, regardless of the fact that the Constitution establishes a category of political institutional political life, and then, through this proposal, it is generally inadmissible to reduce the financial resources intended for respectable political factors that go out into elections, which gain voter confidence, we think that this is generally unacceptable. We are fully aware of the fact that political parties in Croatia's recent political history have not clearly endured the burden of testing credibility, and in many situations and honesty, but rather than working to make the political party, become and remain a framework for fair political activity, a framework for public political action, a framework that will be desirable to every citizen, and already in accordance with the ideas, programmes and desires shared with a particular political party, this demonisation will end up so that political culture will be even lower, that policy-making will be further criticised as something that is unfair, dirty, corrupt, which is something that is against the interests of the people. It is not and cannot be a demonisation of politics and political parties of national interest, but of cleaning, respecting, appearing, in any case healing of the system. In Article 17, one of the elements of this article is the second indent, where the limit of the funds allowed for the promotion of the political party, i.e. the lists in the elections for the Croatian Parliament, is defined in a way that states here the expression of millions and 500 thousand kunas in one election unit in the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's not a good, clear formulation. It's obvious what the proposer meant, but he didn't figure it out until the end. In this regard, we will submit an amendment, which will define, or more closely, that it is actually a financial limit per constituency, in the number of constituencies in which the party or the list goes to elections at all. From what it says now, it's not clear at all. And what about the parties that go out in one, or two just constituency units? What's in the parties that go out in five or more? So that's not clear here. Go on. In the last indent of this solution we have a limit of 50,000 kuna in the election for members of representative bodies units of local and regional self-government. This is simply ridiculous, so I would say rudely, that for the City of Zagreb City Assembly elections, because it is the representative body of regional (area) self-government, i.e. for the municipalities, the limit for promotion is 50,000 kuna. If the county has 60,000 households, just to send them a simple letter, for which the postage is 3.10 kuna, you will get three times the amount of this, and for the mayor, or mayor of the big city, which can have a nominal population of 32 thousand is that limit of 4 hundred thousand kuna. Where's the logic? How can you contact an electoral body of 200 or 250 thousand people within the limit of 50 thousand and the electoral body of 30 or 32 thousand voters with 400 thousand kuna limits? It doesn't make sense. Furthermore, what happens with Articles 18 and 18 in the first and second readings is out of our minds. Putting down a deposit of 50 thousand kuna as a measure of the credibility of the candidate for President of the Republic is just rude. If the Ministry of Administration or the Government of the Republic of Croatia had suggested that a psychiatric report, an IQ test, a history and geography test of the Republic of Croatia, and a man would say that this is a minimum of minimum, that you have a healthy and normal man in a campaign who knows where he is and all of which is made up of a country that wants to be in charge. But looking for 50 thousand kunas as a condition for candidacy it is a disgrace to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, more so the whole thing was originally set up as a cost of jobs that the State Election Commission has to do in counting the signatures that would now turn out that if your candidacy is valid and if it is timely then it will pay you back that money, so nothing costs counting these votes but it falls into the regular business of the DIP, and if you didn't deliver 10 thousand signatures but 9 897 and then it will take those money away because they paid for the counting of those votes. It's something that's unprincipled and incorrect. If that's the condition of being a candidate for the President of the Republic, then that's where he can buy whoever he wants, whoever's got 50 grand kuna in his pocket. And it's particularly unclear how they make payments and get back because they're asking the candidates here personally to pay those 50,000 kunas. So he's not as a candidate with jury accounts for his campaign but as a person. It's not good, it's not a good message. What are we gonna tell people? If only those with 50,000 kunas in their pocket had the right to deal with politics, they had the right to run for President of the Republic. It would be fairer if we talked about the number of signatures. If we really want our campaign to fall off, which my Dalmatians call the rickets, or people who understand the campaign or the candidacy as just a five-day promotion of themselves without the real influence and the desire of their electoral body to participate in the campaign at all, then we should have put it another way. Furthermore, the provision in Article 19 which defines who will have the right to repay all funds which says it will also be lists, i.e. parties competing for the European Parliament, but only provided they achieve 10% is extremely incomprehensible. If the Republic of Croatia sends 12 MPs to the European Parliament, then it is expected that the party, i.e. a list that achieves 6.5%, will have its representative theoretically in the European Parliament because 6.5% can easily be given to one representative in the European Parliament. It is about respectable political parties, i.e. the candidate lists that succeed in the campaign that most resembles the presidential campaign, because the entire state is a single electoral unit where the note is again limited by a million-and-a-half kuna, and it is clear that no one from the Ministry of Administration has ever participated in any political campaign, election campaign, and has not led it, and may suggest such a thing. So, the party that gets its representative in the European Parliament with 9.99%, for example, does not belong to a single kuna of state budget fees. We don't think that's correct. The very fact that the party has moved to the European Parliament, and there will not be many, as only 12 MPs are elected, is a sufficient criterion. And in that sense, we will submit an amendment. We regret that the Ministry of Administration has sent several, at least three proposals over the past few months to this House that cause some disappointment. Because the level of conversation, communication and public debate in the first reading was not enough for some logical models to be incorporated into the laws and in this sense we call for the applicant to be made known and the amendment to be addressed during the debate itself. Once again, it is not right, it is not correct that 16 amendments to the law that has been here for 2.5 months in the procedure are delivered to us at the last minute, and in any case we welcome the intention to finally be more transparent, clearer and fairerly arranged for this whole space of funding for political campaigns, and then secondaryly so are the parties and all those who participate in political life based on the results of the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67681	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67682	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Yes, logically, what Mr. Beus suggests is that this law goes into third reading. Secondly, I want to say that if someone didn't have a problem financing their campaigns, especially this last parliamentary one, then it's HDZ. Had HDZ not had unlimited money in 2007, if both part of the opposition and part of the media and part of the HDZ singers had not been bribed in the period 2007 to 2011. And now it's proposed, you see after this and the Law of Conflicts of Interest. The law on conflict of interest can be resolved by a representative, I don't know that commission, that body, the president of the state. I don't know, maybe a minister or a Prime Minister. And who will resolve the party if, for example, it was involved in such activities? That's the point. And that is a far more serious question than what the status of a representative will be. And I'm going to say one more time, if it hadn't been for that most ground floor voter buy, that means the media, the media and the public, you wouldn't have been gentlemen in power. I'd almost dare say that Sanader brought HDZ to power put himself in jail. Of course, there was nothing missing from him or many around him. What bothers me is when we talk about this Law on the financing of political activities that hasn't changed much from familiar practice. Even today, we see the executive government running its campaign. Every little bit I don't know, the Prime Minister is going around the cities, I'm not going to say he's going left, it's known at the expense of the state, but it's nothing compared to what's going to happen in these few months until the election. Here, it's already secured in the government from a mandatory reserve of 15 million kuna for a referendum. Look out, and it'll all be one month until the election. Here, let someone here tell me what the government's job is, and what's going to be the campaign, and then the partners in the election have tourist campaigns, so she's opening up a big new deal in Croatia, digging up the cemetery of war and porn. 90 thousand say Karamarko is human, times 15 thousand kuna as the state's attorney's office says it's a billion and a half just for those activities. Absolutely, the pit is not a tomb and every innocent victim deserves to be rehabilitated and Christianly buried and mourned, not that problem. But I think the problem is when it's being used at this time. So, it's not good, gentlemen, that it was in action yesterday, it's not good what's going to happen today, and it doesn't matter how honest we are, not when it comes to some local environments. Unlike Mr. Beus a little while ago, I will speak this funding in a different way. For the president of the state it is possible to secure, with that deposit of 50 thousand kuna, I agree, there is absolutely right with Goran, it simply shouldn't be, but 8 million kuna. For Parliament, it means 10 constituencys, plus that constituency abroad a million and a half kuna times 11, that's 16.5 million kuna. For the city of Zagreb, 500 thousand kuna, plus 20 counties, 400 thousand kuna, means a party covering all of Croatia can provide 8.5 million kuna anywhere on this basis. 300 cities, I don't know how many municipalities there are, up to 3,000 inhabitants, times 50 grand, that's 15 million kuna. 100 cities, up to 10,000 people times 100,000 that's 10 million kuna, 50 cities that Croatia has so over 10,000 people, plus councils there you can spend 5 million kunas etc. For one local election, a party covering each election seat can spend 75 million kuna or 6 times more than it can spend in parliamentary elections. And we all know here that parliamentary elections are always spent far more than local elections, spent on the past more than 75 million kunas and no one can convince me that it's not true. Now you're asking yourself what's the background of a law like this, someone's gonna tell the FIMI media, I say no. It was the company she was, or what I know, but it's nothing according to what those on the roads were giving and stuff. DORH's investigation Is that the background of the law? No, I don't. The real background of this Act is seen in this moment that no one will give the HDZ any more lip, that the party was written off before yesterday's financiers so it goes to cutting financial limits. So you have one more time I'm going to say, the parlamentary election paradox 16.5 million kuna, and for local elections it's possible to spend over 75 million kuna. And once again, he says it was spent above what was shown and will always be spent above what was shown, because it is simply not possible to show everything, and whoever does not admit it simply lies, and the bigger the party is and the bigger the space it will clearly violate the principles of this or any other law, and the less it will be looked at under the lap. It is also clear that this system that is here in action is built for the largest but again 1.5 million kuna, I am talking about parliamentary elections, for the electoral unit it is more than modest but 11 electoral units times 1.5 million kuna, which is 16.5 million kuna, and yet at this point I can afford only two of the largest parties and I can afford some tycoons. For 16.5 million kunas, you can be represented in both the media and everywhere and on televisions with 1.5 million kunas or 3 million kunas simply cannot be represented anywhere. One spot, 15 seconds with VAT in the presidential campaign a year ago and so many days ago, on HRT 23 thousand kuna, it cost me. Making one video of that friendly, 65,000 kuna, with one lunch with it. I've had six videos on HRT plus six videos on New TV without you spending $1.2 million, for every national television, it's clear you're invisible. And I would really like to get as little money as possible in these campaigns, that as much as possible, people get a chance, but when I see how it's done, because through the FIMI media clearly there's no competition, some, but cutting costs is only possible in one way. What a direct choice, let's say, of representatives at local or national level. Local elections also need to set a limit, because now we have a limit of 75 to 80 million kuna and that's true. We're all talking about public companies, and how much some monopolies gave, who have a monopoly in the country, the road people, are being set up, I say openly that Primorac gave that BMW for some punishment, that's nonsense but loosening the border regimes, as some media might say. What about financing the tycoon, their electoral ambitions, is gentlemen a special story that is why this law should go into 3 readings, there are some in this Assembly, and some are being prepared in agreement with those who ask me a question to come into these benches, and support existing power. Who's going to limit their amounts? If, for example, they're here to say now to the co-owners of the press, who's going to limit them to some amount. If editors are members of the supervisory board of some companies, if they have their own portals, if they have their own TVs, be careful who can simply limit them. If the government institutions say parties are off TV, out of election time, and associations that have these ambitions can absolutely participate in such events. I mean, what exactly are we gentlemen playing at? What exactly do we want to do about it? Who will once a year write about a tycoon that pays more than one million kunas per year for advertising space on this television or that TV to write about it anything negative or better truthfully? Well, it's not gonna work because it's gonna lose the advertising space that people live on on that TV, either big or small. Well, that's so logical. And that's why I think we should write a special chapter of this law for examples like this. Article 32, we see this for audits, etc. We see that I don't mention those names now, the review gave an unreserved opinion to the party to this or that and the DORH rode up to see that party. I'm going to say that, clearly, Sanader isn't responsible for everything, because if he was to paraphrase the gang's head like he says, then it's a criminal organization and then it's not enough just one and it needs to be more. However, it says that some institutions are dependent on politics, that one gives you a positive opinion, and the other side does how it should simply work. There's only one thing I claim in this country worse than that, that certain media are under the supervision of some political option. This worse thing is when the media is controlled by, say, that capital that has political ambitions. Because they need to be or be subordinated to all the resources of this country. And who are our politicians or monopolies? They're the ones who got everything from this country for nothing in the '90s. Today we have a state, but we are less of our own than maybe until the '90s when we didn't have a state or democracy, but when we had what I knew was such a material status. As far as we're concerned, and that's what I'm saying, because of that embarrassing scandal yesterday in Pula, a group that came across Učka, 200 of them, 300 of which should have made a wall on Učka and stop insulting because in Pula, if there hadn't been an anti-fascist Croatia movement today, it would have played as a guest, not as a domestic. And those who have an influence on it, let them say it. But at least I figured out who was behind that group of 200, 300 people, which is where 9,000 people just got lost. Administrative sanctions, I'm not going to talk about it right now because I see it might be red. That's absolutely fine. But you know what should be done when it is found that someone simply abused the institutions of this law, that is in conflict of interest. Okay, someone's gonna say the odds are what they are today, but if someone came to power in that way, then the question is, can power be legitimate? In the future, gentlemen should take mandates not only for the representative, but also for foreigners if they participated in these activities. And as long as there's no peace, there won't be any peace in these places. Not to mention names, but indeed some ask a question, if someone is now in custody, can the party have that mandate? If you didn't have that mandate, if there was a political majority overload, I think the job would be at least more conscious and fairer after that. Media, I think everyone in the campaign should get about the same space. It'll never be. But let the HRT still allow one fair and fair performance when the choice, with other televisions is worth the principle of pay and beat. But if you don't have the money, then you can't just be on TV. All in all, time's up. Let this law go nicely in the third reading and we will do something that will outlive at least one term of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67683	Thank you. We're not gonna get any boundaries on U.S.A., no matter what's going on in the stadiums. Not at Učka, but nowhere in Croatia. And secondly, taking away or suggesting that it would take away the mandate of someone who is in custody is, who could direct the majority and minorities in the Croatian Parliament if such work could be done? We have 10 corrections of incorrect allegations. Let's be patient, we'll do it all in a row. But it might be interesting in the House to keep track of who produces the most correcting false allegations, so that we can rule by it. But here we go in order. First it's Mr. Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67684	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Cain who told the Prime Minister, Mrs Kosor, that as Prime Minister, he is scurrying or running around Croatia. She, as president of the Croatian government, is doing the responsible work that belongs to her, when it comes to political action, and this is what Mr. Cain has alluded, very appropriate and professionally radio dissistence of the job as Prime Minister in relation to the job he is working as party president. But we don't need to run, neither do we, Mr. Caine, nor do we have to run for the sake of others, work, and when it comes to the development of the economy, the opening of new jobs will either be removed or the president won't go to those places. However, it makes us happy and I believe that it will be more and more, but not within the framework of election promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67685	Thank you. Correction Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67686	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Cain said I quote "Now the caves are being copied, seeking victims of World War II and pores. I don't mind every victim being properly buried and a Christian funeral. And that's not the problem, the problem is that this is now being updated." Comrade Cain, it's not true that that's not the problem. That's quite a problem, because I'm getting to you saying it's not the time, it's the problem. It wasn't time for 45 years in the former state, 20 years in the Croatian state, so today is not the time. So when it's time, I guess when the last living witness dies who can say something about what he saw thousands and thousands of people killed, I guess only then. But the problem is that even today many think that they were not victims at all, and I am not sure about you either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67687	Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67688	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect name of fellow Caine that now in action, I quote "new trade", that a billion and a half kuna will be separated for the discovery of tombs, that this came at this time of election campaign. My colleague Cain, that's incorrect, that's embarrassing what you said. You are the bones of communist victims with money. Those who killed them didn't ask how much it cost, neither will we. Those victims must be properly buried, their criminals must be marked, it's not the time of the election campaign because we've been looking for it for 65 years just you and yours have been deaf. And it's not about the election campaign, it's about another piece of information. In his first reading on the Law on the finding and marking of the graves of the victims of communism after World War II, the SDP also voted and thus depolitized and I thank them, depolitized this process. Therefore, you do not bring him into contact with this campaign, you are bringing him into contact with the ethics and morals of Croatian politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67689	Ms. Ivanka Roksandić, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67690	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct the inaccuracy of fellow Caine, who said, quote: "The executive government is running its campaign. The Prime Minister is running around in Croatia." That's not true, Comrade Caine. The executive government doesn't have time to run the campaign, the executive government does. The Prime Minister visits Croatia, but opens significant economic projects, it starts fighting for every job. But, colleague Cain, I must insist that you and your coalition have time to go around Croatia right now and promise citizens even something that is impossible. And not to mention your local coalition partners who have even started opening schools, certain economic projects that are not in their jurisdiction, but have adopted them, all because of the campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67691	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67692	After five corrections, I should at least replicate someone. ... /The noise in the hall./... Or correct the wrong quote, but the Rules of Procedure can't. I don't mean to abuse it, but I just want to say that in two years it's 140...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67693	There's no correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67694	And it would have been better if it had been a two-year-old thing just to keep those jobs...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67695	Please, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Not at all. Mrs Ivanka Roksandić, please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67696	Mr. President, you've already been corrected. I was just about to say that at this point, my colleague Cain used and misused the correction of the Rules of Procedure because it's a colleague of Cain, and you've been in this House for a very long time, you could learn that the replicas are not on behalf of the club, so don't use that, please. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67697	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Agent Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67698	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm correcting, condemning, and for this quote, Mr. Caine, I'm asking for an apology. To call for the discovery of mass sites, the tomb by a new deal truly deserves not only a conviction, a rejection but indeed deserves an apology. It's sad of whoever came from this House. I couldn't imagine it could be said in this House. This quote is from colleagues and colleagues both non-European and non-Christian and non-human, and I hope simultaneously and unistrian. I beg you fellow, look at what you've said and I'd like to ask you fellow respected, apologize for this. Do not resort to the devastation of the victims we face at every step, unfortunately in Croatia, and as long as we do not achieve that level of respect for each other we will not reach the necessary level of community that is so necessary for this people. Please apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67699	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Damir Caine for the second time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67700	Absolutely, every innocent victim deserves to be rehabilitated, Christianly buried and mourned. But then let's just, if you mind that term, go into budget rebalance so that we can do it thoroughly and completely simply make it higher and higher than the last and future generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67701	There's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure here for the second time. You did not specify anything prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, so because of the abuse of the second time the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning. Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67702	Thank you, Mr. President. So Turkish counterpart and counterpart Roksandic corrected this incorrect assumption that the government's president is swindling left-right. Not that it's an incorrect quote, but it's offensive. The Prime Minister is carrying out his presidential duties, coming to every environment where she is invited to testify to the improvement of quality of life. But unfortunately, there are some environments where they don't invite her, where the government secures the funds. When it comes when Veli's top opens, it's good. In the river when 3 billion kunas are secured, then it's normal, that's fine, and for praise it gets mutilation or this kind of thing or that kind of nickname. It seems to me that you, in your discussions, are going from left to right, from statistics to the legislative framework, and World War II is your favorite topic. And you keep campaigning for this pay phone. You say pay and kick. It seems to me that you're being paid to beat up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67703	Mr. Representative Franjo Lucic, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67704	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, that's why Mr. Cain's rhetoric happens to have this many replicas. And I am correcting his incorrect allegations that the Croatian Democratic Union is spending enormous campaign funds, and it does not say how much he spent, and they have only 3 MPs, and we have 22 times more colleagues. And I'd just like to multiply your amounts times 22 so let's see what it is and how much money anybody spent. But don't use this pay phone here to really talk, because this is really a shame, especially when it comes to strategists and what you represent and what your ideology is. Well, that's embarrassing. It's embarrassing, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67705	Let's ease the vocabulary in general. I stand here, and I will keep doing it, and in the future, things will be said so that no one has to get hurt without being said what is meant to be said. Here, if we can hold ourselves in such a single frame, then it would be very good. Mrs. Anna Lovrin, please. Same correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67706	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, Mr. Cain said rudely and incorrectly, firstly, that the Croatian government's president is going left and right in Croatia. So that's not true, and we need to protect the president's dignity, or the Prime Minister's. The President implements the economic recovery measures adopted by this Croatian Parliament, provides funds for pension payments, social benefits, provides means to encourage employment and economic development. And secondly, he said that Interior Minister Karamarko is investigating crimes for pre-election purposes. So that's not true. The Minister of the Interior is doing what should have been done long before, even during your rule, Mr. Cain, so I'm hearing a throwout from that section of the assembly to do it before the elections, and how fortunate that the then coalition government investigated it before the elections would have been pleased to have done so. So Minister Karamarko is doing what needs to be done in accordance with the Declaration on the Conviction of Communist Crimes brought by the Council of Europe and the Croatian Parliament and what should have been done long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67707	Thank you. In the meantime, at 10.50, it's past 10 minutes' notice time. There is still Mr. Kruno Markovinović's correction and Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67708	Here's Mr. President, fellow Caine, confirming here's Mr. Beus' statement that the presidential candidate has been discriminated because he has to give, depositing 50,000 kunas which if he had any serious I think he can borrow in particular he can be aware that after his term he can borrow from an unknown friend or a friend of 200000 euros to buy two apartments. According to this, investment is worth it. That's what I'm happy for.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67709	Correction Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67710	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Cain, here's who knows which way in whose function he's trying to erase from his memory is actually one whole event in Croatian history, and that's what we're talking about about Croatian sites, Croatian cemetery. Furthermore, when he's talking about swindling, I think it's more of a colloquial term that he used, so I wouldn't even fix it too much. But what he said about raising the wall on Ucka really offends me and that when you mention anti-fascist, just a little, let me, be parliamentary. ... [[- Intruder Cain, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67711	Hello! You can't talk if you don't get the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67712	Wait a minute. Can I finish, Mr. Caine?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67713	Go on, Mr. Grubishic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67714	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67715	Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67716	So, Mr. Cain, you were saying that the creation of the Croatian state is solely due to the anti-fascist struggle. De facto and de jure anti-fascist fighting was created by the second Yugoslavia, communist and socialist Yugoslavia, and the Homeland War that you did not mention formed an independent and free Croatia. And you'll never lift the wall on Ucka. There's already a tunnel, if you need one more. [[Stammering Cain: Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67717	We continue to discuss the agenda item Final proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. And it's the Club of National Minorities and Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67718	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Club supports the adoption of the Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion. We hope that just now the transparency of this law will boost the activity and funding, the greater interest of the citizens themselves, that our voters will play a more important role in political parties, that they will foster a more secure quality of political culture, that they will strengthen the interaction of voters and political parties themselves, that, indeed, as with all around the world, the parties will be able to rely more on funding precisely from these sources, from sources and citizens, from their own voters, i.e. from the source of legal persons. However, the club of national minorities also has objections to some articles, so let me present them on behalf of the club. Article 2 concerning sources of funding speaks of how political parties can acquire funds to membership, publishing activities, voluntary contributions, but also to organise party events. At the same time, it is said that independent MPs and minority representatives can gain income, however, it is said of organising party events. Since independent representatives and minority representatives cannot organise party events, we propose that both in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 that the word "party" be deleted and that it remains only an organisation of events, and thus it is indeed possible for all participants in the campaigns to organise such events. The National Minority Club shall, in particular, have an objection and will submit an amendment to Article 19, where the cost of electoral promotion from the state budget, or the budget of the unit of local self-government, is also discussed, depending on which elections are under way. In paragraph 1(3), where political parties are said to have independent lists and candidates of members of national minorities who cross 5% have the right to this fee on the basis of the promotion, however, it is not the same in political and independent lists, and when it comes to minority representatives. 5% on the list of minority MPs does not carry a seat and 10, even more can be found on that list, slightly more of those candidates who will cross the 5% threshold, and this simply raises the question of how they will be financed. Will all 5, 6 or 10, as far as it goes, have the same resources as those candidates who have passed on political parties, or will be chemical again, and will be especially brought to give them something as they have been given so far. Just so that this does not happen, we propose an amendment where in point 3 we delete candidates for members of national minorities, and we propose that we add a new point to the candidates for representatives of national minorities who get more than 15% in the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, meaning we raise that limit to 15%, the voter's valid votes have the right to compensate for election promotion costs in the same amount and by the same criteria as political parties and independent lists from the previous point as defined in Article 19. In this way we will really create equal conditions, i.e. we will allow candidates to try to cross at least 15% to be equal, because I say a lot of them are over 5%. Furthermore, the Club of National Minorities notes the lack of compliance with the deadlines. In particular, Article 22 states that the compensation provided for in Article 19 of this Law will be paid within 60 days of the date of publication of the final official results. At the same time, Article 35 states that all parties, including independent, or candidates of national minorities, have to submit a report within 30 days, which means that they have not completed their funding, have not received funding, and they have probably had to be in debt, and they already have to submit a full account, which means that they cannot provide any interest, nor should they enter anything, thus either move the report to 60 days, or reduce the resources to be delivered within 30 days, and then normally submit the report. It is clear in the conversation with political parties that political parties are preparing for elections in a way that they simply save from the state budget in the election year, but whoever enters this way for the first time must be in charge, most likely ask for credit funds, and will receive a refund after 60 days as it stands in Article 22, and he has already had 30 days... to submit a final report on his incomes and expenditures, and I say expenditures some and he does not know because normally if he is in debt and I don't know how, but also here, these 2 deadlines should be harmonised in any way. Normally, the club related to this amendment, especially the amendment to Article 19, will depend on our support for the law itself, and further part on behalf of the club will be done by fellow Furio Radin. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67719	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67720	Mr. Minister, our intention is actually very simple and it is to see that the national minority representative, namely that candidates for representatives of national minorities, will be treated in the same way and according to the same criteria as party representatives and representatives, namely candidates and candidates for independent lists. That's one problem that's been going on for years. You know that we had to fight really long yes, and it was only in 2003 that representatives of national minorities were treated as all other representatives. And about the money. I know it's not popular for politicians to talk about money, we in Istria know to say, "The money doesn't make luck, but it calms the nerves."and so that we all have calmer nerves and tomorrow at the vote and after we go to the elections we'd like to know if this formulation that's in your proposal is satisfying and will it result in a national minority representative having the same refund, so to speak, the cost of an election campaign as has an HNS representative, IDS, HDZ, SDP? We've gotten the impression that you put this 5% and where the majority selection system is because you think maybe then you can share it by the percentages, which would simply discriminate against the one chosen. And now we have made one proposal here, which the distinguished colleague Chuhnil explained here, and this proposal is simple – we raise the criterion from 5 to 15% and all those who cross 15% have the right to refund costs as much as the other candidates and MPs get. The natural thing this is also one form of positive discrimination because it doesn't just get the one that's chosen but gets maybe another one. If you're going to, for example. You decide for some other method, e.g. that only one who wins would get a refund of costs about it will of course see, talk, but you know that this method that one who wins relations could all have the same tails in discussions as others did. But that's acceptable for us, too. And as we accept that model, for example. the electoral model for the Serbian National Community that it is correct and it is as it is in many other countries they have and we support it and we will support it until the end and we think that it is constitutional so if you want the one who wins only it has a fee, and others perhaps some other refunded costs we could also discuss it. Because I think the cleanest thing to do is to raise us to 15%, few of them have more than 15% in national minority elections and in this way to solve that problem. What must be clear, Mr. Minister, is that a national minority representative must also be treated in refunding election costs as well as as a majority advocate. No more or less. Because, we're already this one to say enough of the remarks that come from many sides depending on who's in opposition and who's not at a certain point, that someone who's got a thousand or 2,000 or less votes is less valuable than who hasn't got it. I could ask a question then is a Croatian representative who has 14, 15, 16 thousand votes is twice as valuable as a Chinese representative who has hundreds of thousands or as an Indian representative. Those aren't criteria. Everyone refers to their population, and the population is well defined. And that's why the representatives of national minorities by power and by cost and by all other criteria are the same as the representatives of the majority and they must be treated as such and we would like to find a common solution. If you want, Mr. Mlakar, we can either work it out today or tomorrow morning. We, however, see the amendment as crucial to the vote on this law without which, and if we do not find a solution, we will unfortunately find ourselves in a situation where we do not vote for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67721	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67722	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HSS Club will support this legislative proposal because we think it significantly enhances the financing of electoral promotion as well as political action, especially because this area has been regulated with several regulations so far. And this balances legislation in a unique way for all elections. In addition, many remarks were incorporated on the draft law in the first reading, making certain issues more clear. Political parties' finances, and in particular the financing of election promotions are often the subject of public criticism, and this is partly the reason for unequal legislation. This legislative proposal ensures transparency and control which will ultimately contribute to greater citizens' confidence in their actions. In fact, although politics is defined as a concern for the general good, unfortunately the perception of the public is that politicians are more concerned about the welfare of only some and very concrete material good. Therefore, transparency of the amount as well as the way in which candidates' financial resources are spent, or political parties in the election campaign, is an important factor in public oversight in the electoral process, as well as an indicator of the degree of democraticity of the elections. Citizens have the right to know what the parties are doing with money, how much they get and how they spend it, and we believe that the proposed solutions will ensure it. This sets out the obligation of political parties to hold independent lists and candidates to make public specific data on the donations and costs of election promotion in periods of six months, and the obligation to publish specific data on donations over a period of six months is also determined for donations received by political parties, independent representatives in the Croatian Parliament and independent members of the representative bodies of units of local, regional or regional self-government during the year. On the other hand, this Law shows a willingness to punish those who would have thought of violating it. We therefore particularly welcome the fact that administrative sanctions such as total or partial loss of the cost of election promotion and suspension of the fee will be imposed if there is a breach of the provisions of this Act. It is also good that the monetary limits of donations of natural and legal persons that we see are reduced compared to the bill that passed the first reading. Thus, a natural person can donate no more than 30 thousand kuna, and legal persons to a political party, the candidate in the election for President of the Republic of Croatia can donate no more than 200 thousand kuna in the calendar year. We well consider a provision prohibiting the financing of political parties, independent representatives, representatives of national minorities, independent members of the representative bodies of units of local, regional, self-government, independent lists and candidates against whom the payment of outstanding liabilities to the budget or employees is conducted. Furthermore, we believe that there are limited resources that can be spent in a particular election campaign. For example, the limit of candidates for the presidential elections is 8 million kuna, and for parliamentary elections is one million and a half kuna for a single constituency, with the same being true for elections for members of the European Parliament. It is also good that this Bill proposal compared to the first reading proposal, Article 17 detailed the limitation of the total amount of electoral promotion at local level and thus the cost limits are determined according to the number of residents in certain units of local and regional or regional self-government. We believe that this is a more appropriate solution, but we believe that perhaps the restrictions given for the election of representative bodies on local and regional self-government may not be good or should be equated, given that for each representative body, the county assembly is limited to only 50,000 kuna. It is good that there is a way of making available the funds that go beyond the prescribed restrictions on the cost of electoral promotion so that the political parties bear the independent lists and candidates are obliged to return the total amount of donations that exceed the allowed amount of promotion costs to the payers. It shall also be prohibited to use funds collected to finance the cost of electoral promotion for the settlement of the personal costs of candidates, and the personal costs of family members as well as other costs not directly linked to the election promotion for the duty to which the candidate is running. With this legislative proposal, we are also approaching the European countries' norms and practices. Since existing legal solutions have been upgraded in those issues that have so far been inadequately arranged. It was time for order to be put in place in the field of party finance and to enable the competent authorities and the public to control it. What we believe will also contribute to the return of the reputation of politicians in the eyes of citizens who at this time of crisis are twice turned into a hand before they spend it, and on the other hand they see how much money is spent in election campaigns and they rightly wonder how much and how it is worth to someone at all. And this Law, in my opinion, is the most public media, not happy with the taxpayers, because most of the funding from these planned and made available goes to public media accounts and we believe that these funds were needed as a whole, and they concern the activities of the electoral promotion should be further reduced and limited. And finally, at the Club of the Croatian Peasants' Party, we believe that the adoption of this Act which, I repeat, regulates this area in a unique and comprehensive way which has been fragmented so far in several regulations which are of great importance for the normal conduct of political action and the process will contribute to greater transparency and the envisaged sanctions are a security for its implementation since it discourages the violation of its provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67723	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67724	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm going to start this debate with the seemingly unusual concept of conclaves. It's usually a notion marked by a council of cardinals meeting for the Pope's election. The concept also marks the closed rooms in which the choice is made. The word comes from a Latin "conclave" or a room that can be locked. The reasons for mentioning this idea will be words more later. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. This Proposal for a Law Club of the HDSSB could be supported with certain corrections, and we propose this to other representatives' clubs, especially those of the opposition you will see for what reasons. The reasons for supporting this proposal are numerous, including the following shortcomings in the current Law, the harmonisation with EU legislation, and numerous examples of illegality and the existence of black funds to finance these activities. The first group, the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates was governed by a law passed by the Croatian Parliament more than 4 years ago. This law only partially, incompletely and not in a unique way for all elections to be arranged and the issue of financing election promotion. In addition, this law addresses the issue of supervision of the financial operations of independent lists and candidates, but not of the financial operations of independent representatives in the Croatian Parliament and independent members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, as well as the question of the choice of financing of the same ones except from the budget. Similarly, this law does not provide for the possibility of funding them through donations. There are still a number of examples in the current law, which points to unequal solutions regarding the financing of election promotions for different elections. The second group of reasons, harmonising with EU legislation, the evaluation of the financing of political parties in Croatia has also been carried out by the International Working Group, so-called GRECO, which also submitted its comments to Croatia last year on the Croatian package of the Anti-Corruption Act containing the European Commission's observations on the draft Law on the financing of political activities of election promotion. The content and recommendations of GRECO’s remarks are also given in the light of the reasons why this new law is adopted. In line with the observations and the opinions expressed with the debate on the draft law in the Croatian Parliament, some of which have been adopted and incorporated into this final draft of the law, and some have been rejected as well as the European Commission's respectful remarks today's draft law should improve the issue of financing political promotion activities in line with the normatives and practices of European countries. But is that exactly what it is? Analysing the observations which have been accepted and which have been incorporated into this final draft of the law in relation to the original solutions, interesting knowledge arises. Of the 38 comments made by the representatives’ clubs, representatives themselves and the board of the Croatian Parliament, 20 and slightly more than 52% were accepted. With regard to the European Commission’s observations, the Government has already accepted almost every remark by a well-known model of obedience. The third group of reasons, problems that arise in Croatia when it comes to financing political promotion activities, unfortunately, are not only those presented. Even greater are those who are not brought forth, which are not to be spoken of but which cannot be spoken of, should not and must not be silenced. In recent months, we have been witnessing numerous findings from investigations not only about an unimaginable bank of state money, but also about the existence of black funds at the tops of the ruling party, which were financed not only by the party but also by additional mass payments and selected party personnel, whether their exclusive clothes, shoes, purses or brooches, whether hairstyle, manication, pedicures, solarium or fitness. Nice writing and media coverage was being bought. Politicians of larger or smaller calibers were also bribed depending on the level of the authorities for which the elections were held. In keeping at the apartment, carrying in bags as if carrying bread from the bakery and laying millions of kunas and euros of stolen state money in the party register, birds on the branch already know about it. But what about sanctioning all those involved, who knew about it and who, until the investigation against former HDZ treasurer Barisic found out about it? Isn't it known long ago that the crime and cover-up is a crime? Is it only for some a proverb that it is not only a thief who steals but also one who holds his ladder? Is it normal that the police and the DORH don't care where he is, for example? ended the stolen 10 million kunas from the Afera Trucks? Is it just enough to condemn those who have done the robbery themselves and to ignore who and for whom the stolen money has been spent? Is it just like this that more than seven million kunas are being spent on financing the failed presidential campaign of the then vice president and today's prime minister of the Republic of Croatia? Will the old folk be eaten by a donkey wolf and nothing to anyone? Former Defence Minister Berislav Roncevic in this case turned out to be a clear and small child, but sooner or later justice will see the light of day, if not before, and the moment when the current ruling set leaves power, and that moment is getting closer. But this isn't all, either. Under HDZ, Croatia has patented many in most normally organised democratic states unknowns and hardly interesting things so far. One of them and what happens after the election when the lights of the public reflectors a little darkened. During these investigations into the robbery of state money, there was also knowledge of payment in the cash of certain party leaders, the HDZ coalition partners. That's what the media wrote about, but so far there's no reaction from the competent institutions. But it's a public conversation that this case isn't lonely. The fact that HDZ formed the parliamentary majority after the previous parliamentary elections, in itself, was not surprising given the fact that HDZ was also a relative winner of those elections. However, the speed and ease that, following the past elections, Ivo Sanader and his then special envoy and negotiator Damir Polancec, but also some of the senior party officials of Sanader's special trust did this, was not only frantic but also the reason for a thorough doubt in ways and methods of negotiation. Especially in light of these already mentioned new facts in the way the ruling Croatian party's money works, acquisition and availability. If a party leader was bought, the question arises whether it was a truly lonely case or whether each hand of the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament had its own price? I will not spend too much of my words on the price of HDZ representative's hand in SDSS' sister-in-laws. This will best be said by Tihomir Kurda and the second by the Croatian authorities sold to the enemies of the Croatian state at the mercy and mercy of Croatian defenders and members of their families. After the fascinatingly fast creation of the majority in the Croatian Parliament and in 2007, Croatia and not only the political public could witness almost incredible metamorphosis. There have been spectacular attachments to the HDZ majority and those representatives who have been in their SDP areas for years. There was also a jump out of the rubber boots in Boss's suits, there was dinner and toast and bags and purses. All this happened quite clearly and transparently in line with the well-known transparent HDZ practice that introduced Ivo Sanader into Croatian political life. It was the year the HDZ and the ruling majority were shaken by their kind of Croatian gold fever. There was no desire that was invaluable or price that could not be paid. Money was anyone's prey, and the idea of where to steal it even more. Today, none of Sanader's closest associates know anything about it, nor does his crown heiress in a nation called the Duchess of Remetinca Jadranka Kosor, nor does the former moral verticalist Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67725	Mr. Representative, get back to the agenda. You're not a Bounce, you're not a State's Attorney's office, you're not a court of law. Let the institutions work, and you discuss the agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67726	I'm hanging in there, so this is all about the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67727	No, no. You can talk now and about the solar system so be... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67728	You'll see that all this has to do with the agenda, and I'm asking you to make up for all the time you've taken from me. One that's even possible he didn't know anything or at least he doesn't remember is Vladimir Shakespeare. It is not unusual after the election to sit down, talk and negotiate the majority and co-operation on any representative body, but it is not only unusual but also illegal to pay this cooperation with black money and it is robbed by its own people. So it would be very interesting to hear, for example. and from Mr. Jarnjak, then of HDZ Secretary-General and one of the most trusted, the fugitive former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader. The answer to the question on whose order and whose money is at hand in the Croatian Parliament is for some newly elected representatives in romantic self-boring environments offered the sums and of a million euros and yachts not less than 13 meters and solving the employment of all unemployed family members. This is a question that should be of interest to both the Hop and the DORH, and I'm asking it so that similar things never happen again. In this sense, in Croatia, not only should we think about controlling the conduct of the elections itself but also more about controlling what happens after the elections are over. Therefore, given what practice it has been so far for our opportunities after the election, the most certain rules already mentioned in the conclaves would be applied, the same rules that apply in the Vatican when in the Sistine chapel after the Pope's death closes and locks all cardinals who have the right and obligation to choose a new pope. And they keep them so closed until they do the same and then they release the white smoke. Thus, the safest way for Croatia's citizens to really get the power they chose in the elections would be for all elected MPs, especially HDZs to be imprisoned for a time in some monastery or some other institution of closed type and held there under the watchful eye of the State Election Commission, and with the DORH on alert until the parliamentary majority is formed. Then, instead of white smoke, you can go to Fascism Square. 4 to report the white flag. That would probably be the first step towards making Remitenza significantly less basic. And we have another proposal. On October 1, 2010, the Washington Times published an article entitled "Modern Mafia State", which quoted me as saying, "HDZ's stole a billion dollars. Who will answer to the Croatian people who dreamed freedom and died for independence." It is necessary to consider the basis of this article and the possible obligation not to charge the next parliamentary elections on the cost of the state budget but to the full cost of HDZ from their black funds. And given the amount of money robbed, an annex should be added to this law to ban HDZ from funding and any donations until all the money stolen from Croatian citizens is returned. And until the names of all 147 HDZ bags from Barisic's black booklet are known, for which many in HDZ have been sleeping like babies for months, the clock sleeps, the clock weeps all night long until morning, until they calm down in the safe spaces of one of the most famous tourist centers in the fortress Remetinec. And here's a few at the end of the latest news. Given the crowd and interest that the government has in filling the capacities of the mentioned tourist complex, the current fortunates who use all available benefits of the same short-term event have organized an interesting event, the festival of poems of the remetic poem as a kind of version of RTL's HTZ only in this case is called Remetic HTZ. There's more and more candidates for singers from day to day. The audition is conducted throughout Croatia's Pocket in all major branches of HDZ. The jury is the DORH, and the final competition was held in the beautifully decorated courtyard of the remetine complex. This year's competition between numerous candidates was won by a tick called HHHHH, marking the HAC, HZ, HEP and HPB's shortcut. They won with a song that quickly became a real hit in all prison cells. The hit song is, in this cell I'm not hopeless, soon there'll be someone from the government. Finally, the HDSSB Club is ready despite all these remarks, with the conditions set out, to support this bill as a first step towards correcting everything that has so far been wrong in the field of this issue. Thank you for letting me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67729	I didn't allow it, but you continued this entire debate outside the agenda. You showed up here as a state's attorney, as an investigative authority, as a USKOK, I don't know... You're not the voice of the public. You're using the public in your... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Very, very low initiatives. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Did you get the word to speak? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You abused it again and took back the word that opposed our Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You here have concluded your debate...... You can't talk because you didn't get the word. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do not commit violence in the Croatian Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is verbal violence, and very soon it will turn into something else, unfortunately, as far as I can tell. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My efforts systematic that any problem can be qualified, convincing and politically spoken, without labels, without charges, without insults, but for some MPs in the Croatian Parliament it seems not worth it. I will ask clubs these days to meet so that we can finish this session of the Croatian Assembly in the course or at the end of this year in a civilized and cultural way. Because what's happening now and what's happening over and over again goes beyond every possible measure and tolerance that I'm prone to, but it has to have limits too. I'm asking you not to pretend to be USKOKs, to be state attorneys, and to be judges. Let everyone do his job and do not abuse the speaker of the Croatian Parliament or debate in the Croatian Parliament and get out of the box as it says here in the usual behaviour in the Assembly, normally. Here in Article 214 says that he demeans or insults the motionors and other MPs, here there are a number of names, including Vice-President of the Council of Jarnjak and some others, and by his conduct he deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. So I rely on the Rules of Procedure. If this is the usual behavior in the House, then we must in some way approve it in some act, our Rules of Procedure. I really want us to discuss in a peaceful and cultural way in the Assembly without even introducing clear aspects of hate and intolerance, intolerance. It grows a bit hateful, manifests itself in different ways. I'm begging you. In doing so, I am not sharing anyone in any party, but I am asking everyone to finish this, this convocation of the Croatian Parliament in a tolerated spirit, in a democratic spirit, in a collegiate spirit, and to at least be polite among ourselves. I think that's the minimum we can ask for. Since I have spoken like this several times as some cryer voice somewhere I will not say deserts but also that without any effect I will not tire of warning MPs and representatives of such behaviour in the Croatian Parliament. Everything can be said in a cultural, measured, acceptable, democratic way. Here we now have the first violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs. Sunshade twilight. Yes, the sun's twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67730	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67731	Miss, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67732	I know that, it's okay. I was just about to say I can't call him Mr. Representative. This Rules of Procedure have been fully injured by Article 214. So, insult, demeaning, bringing one into this assembly is the feeling of a terrorist who's going to attack one of us and I think he's worth taking away his word or that he's worth having a special conversation with. Because this is an honorable home. He probably has no dignity, so he respects no one else's dignity or honor. If he had that, he wouldn't talk like this, and he wouldn't talk to anyone in this way, not even this honourable Parliament. He can do it somewhere on the street, in his house, in his workplace if they tolerate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67733	One part of yours I said it myself. I didn't, and the bottom line is, I'm gonna take someone's word for it. It can only be truly remarkable, and it may well be heard so that we can with our review and with one attempt to return to the framework of tolerance this debate ends. But, ma'am, you're right. That's what I have to say. Now we have a few corrections. First is Mr. Petar Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67734	Thank you, Mr. President. I will correct only two incorrect allegations of many, there were many, I would not correct for three days. But as for Mr. Purda, the Croatian government has done nothing. Mr. Representative, it's not true. I am daily with a minister of justice and with the foreign minister in communications and the president of the Parliament and the Prime Minister. They've all taken everything and Mr. Purda will be back. But Purda, we're all Purde and Mr. Maric and everyone else. So don't think our government doesn't take care of our defenders. The other false thing is that you were a longtime member of the Croatian Democratic Community, that you were doing campaigns and that you knew where the money came from, that the money did not come, that the money was not stolen from the Croatian Democratic Community. She's funding herself. And so why didn't you say you were spending money illegally? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67735	I have my own criteria for holding a session and I said that I would only interrupt someone in extreme need in the debate. I tried to warn Mr. Representative during the debate and at the end of the debate. I don't know why you're creating such an atmosphere here. It doesn't lead to anything. It doesn't really lead to anything. He has a correction, Mr. Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67736	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I would only say before I correct all this incorrectly what Mr. Buric said that in Croatian history, once there was a persistent conversation here with the beginning of the Reverend Croatian Parliament. Today, Mr. Buric said a number of incorrect allegations about dirty money, the financing of any candidate in Croatia's campaign, about representatives, vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Seks, Jarnjak. I think the young ones came up here as guests here at the Croatian Parliament, it's a shame we're experiencing. I'll just say one example from Slavonia. The same HDSSB party in 2005 won elections in the coalition with HSLS. A councilman literally disappeared after a meeting in Osijek. In the morning he appeared from HDSSB headquarters and pretended not to know us and see us, and with us the night before he negotiated as our partner with our mandate on our list by supporting our programme, our foreigners and the candidates on the list. The gentleman appeared on the HDSSB list and won the post of Vice-President of the County Assembly in Osijek. Now that is the truth about this party, and this is a shame for the Croatian Parliament that we allow ourselves to listen to this kind of thing, suffer and that no one alive reacts to such insults, human lowness and something that embarrasses the Croatian state and the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67737	Correction Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67738	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Buric said a number of incorrect allegations and I will look back at the one where he said that Croatian defenders were convicted, left for mercy and mercy. So that's absolutely incorrect. Croatian defenders exercise rights on the Law on Croatian Defences, unlike some other times when these rights were greatly cut off from talking about Croatian wartime wartime disabled people. You are, in effect, the protector of all groups, and you are also insulting the fundamental group that you belong to professionally. Last night, waving on that god with some sort of manual, etc. You are violating the Law on Health Protection, Medical Code, Rules of Procedure, etc. And that's how you conduct your political promotion, and at the same time you teach others how to conduct a proper and correct campaign. Poor fellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67739	Correction Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67740	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Honorable Croatian Assembly. I am correcting Mr Buric's allegations that "Washington Times" in October 2010 announced what Mr Buric said. I have here a copy of the "Washington Times" on July 4th 2009, which reads the title "Sanader's HDZ has stolen more than 500 million dollars." So it's a correction. And in that "Washington Times" article, the sub-member says to Sanader and his associates the place is in jail. That was in 2009. Look how much we're coughing and we're late for Salzburg. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67741	Is that the scripture you read? Is that a holy letter? So let's just read the New York Times and these sheets, we don't need to do anything, but how they write, so fine we do. Right? It's no proof, nor is it any argument that you've brought here. So you know. And we have a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67742	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It is incorrect that Mr. Purda was sold by the Croatian government and the Croatian state. It's absolutely incorrect about Mr. Purdy, his status, his innocence, the state's attorney's office made clear its conclusions, which by questioning 30 witnesses made. And it's an incorrect assumption that this law needs an annex. This law requires attachment number one that you, Mr. Buric, would be on with your debt to the Ossetian hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67743	We move to an individual debate, and again I ask MPs and MPs to comply with their discussions with the usual behaviour in the Assembly, as it says in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and to intonate their discussions. The first is in an individual debate Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67744	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers with an associate. I want to believe that these two television viewers who are following debates from the Croatian Parliament or drink apaurin or normable to last, or simply turn off the TV. We are discussing a serious issue that will certainly be significant in the next parliamentary elections, and I estimate that this bill is based on the current regulation of 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67745	... You don't want anyone to know how I'm going to run the Parliament. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Not you, not anyone. Sit here, not run away I protect everyone as much as I can, and you won't... [[You've got to protect everyone.]] Not you, not anyone in this House while I'm here at this table. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] So you know. Only when it comes to you is it? And why didn't Shakespeare give him... Yesterday, what was worse? [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Why not? Please, I won't. ... Just keep it up, both of you and the other and the third. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] While I'm sitting here, I'm going to try to keep this House in courtesy, in tolerance, in democracy. That's what I'm gonna do. And they won't, while I'm sitting here, no one's taking me to Parliament. When I'm not sitting here, and when the others are sitting, let them lead the way they think it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I think that in the most tolerated way, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as far as possible, I run meetings of the Croatian Parliament. And that's how I'm gonna keep going. While I'm sitting here, of course, when I'm not sitting, then I won't be able to do it. Thank you very much. And now I'm asking for an apology, because I didn't cause this story. I'm asking Mr. Agent Lesar to continue, and I hope you've hitched the time, so he can get his 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67746	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are discussing a subject that will be extremely important for the citizens of this country, but in the next parliamentary elections. And I believe that this proposed law, of the 10 steps needed to regulate the regular financing of political parties and the financing of political campaigns ahead of the elections, solves well, solidly 7 necessary. For three, I still don't think they're well placed. I will not write and propose amendments because there is no benefit, but I want to believe that the minister may also use the possibility that in the form of government amendments and these things will try to fix. But before I explain these three shortcomings that still hold a reserve with me, I want to say the following. When it comes to all the election campaigns in this country we have one absurdity. First of all, the media and all those who are campaigning fatally on political parties and participants in the election of payments, are secreting and not allowing, and they do not want to give public information as much as they have, and immediately after the election, they say that political parties have spent an awful lot of money for the campaign, and 80% of that money ends up in the media in different ways. And then the people get confused, the voters brought into doubt, first they think it's money that's exclusively from the state budget, because they don't have to know all the details of how campaigns are financed, and the second one doesn't say that the money that the political parties spend in the campaign ends up in the economy and entrepreneurship, in the media whether it's television and radio, in the press, in the different agencies, and all those who offer something on the market to spend campaigns. That's what I have to say, because it's not about money going out of Croatia and being dumped. That there's exaggeration, there is. That a large part of the campaign is unfortunately estradicated, and it's beyond all limits, and that's true. However, we will not solve this problem with laws. This will be settled only by correcting political culture and when we clearly and unequivocally tell citizens that the elections do not include beauty and beauty, decorated PR-made candidates, who teach them 10 floscules, messages or sentences, which are presented in light, content and in a way that most often has little to do with their personality. The rules you've laid down in Mr. Minister's bill, certain donations and campaign costs, could be discussed more or less, but good. And the control that's scheduled. However, the first step I consider not good enough is this about the power of the State Election Commission from the moment their powers of control come to an end. If there is a harsh violation of this law during the election campaign, I think the DIP should have the right to suspend the election prevention race. It may never be necessary for anyone to do so, but if a single candidate were suspended for violations of the election race, because of violations of this law, it would be so educationally effective that it would work more effectively than a thousand fines of 50 thousand kuna and would benefit Croatia and the development of Croatian democracy in the long term. Second, the money. It's a little bit of a giro-account bullshit. I'm worried about cash, cash. And this law can't solve it I know it, but I don't understand how it's possible for a company to take a million kuna from its jury account and give it to a political party or a candidate in cash. How is it possible that no financial supervision ever determines the fact that cash is raised, justice is likely by forged documents, and it is used to bribe or finance individual parties. We have a problem here, it's so-called. Bagging. Whether it's about the state sector, the public sector or private businesses. Unfortunately, private companies are also involved in this hoax by accepting cash payments, producing black orders, printing with black warrants, avoiding of course and paying taxes. Therefore, this second step of supervision of finance will not be good enough if the application and control of other laws regulating the financial operations of all entities in Croatia will finally not come under control. We'll have a bag. And 90% of black funds are bagging, not through a jury account. And as long as we don't clear up, we can't promise the citizens of Croatia transparency in the financing of parties and campaigns. The third step you started, but not until the end. Media and all agencies that are intermediaries between users and service providers must publicly publish a list of all participants in the election and how much they have spent. This is also terribly important in this very transparency of one of the largest influences on the mood of the electorate and those who on the one hand have the right to criticise politicians and political parties, but on the other hand must be responsible and have the obligation to announce how much money they have received from the campaign. They must publicly publish a list of all the participants in the election and exactly how much they spent. They cannot and must not be excluded from the overall state, but also from the social surveillance process of funding political campaigns. They must be required to do so. Or let them not choose to do anything in the campaign and receive any payments or publish any pre-election and election messages. They have a choice. And in the end, with only one suggestion or question. You have overlooked the opening of a special jury campaign financing account a year before the expected election day. The expected day of elections is the day the previous elections were held. Think about it, wouldn't it be good if it were two years? For the big candidates, strong candidates are enough and six months. We're all aware of that. But political parties that are as small as they like to be said or independent candidates who are seriously preparing for candidacy, with the possibility of opening a jury account at least 2 years before that would have gained transparency. They'll raise money, set up foundations to launder money later and bring it to a jury account. We therefore prevent them from having a serious desire to run for president of the state that for 2 years they have the legal right to collect money legally and with any further reports as mandatory as provided for in this law. So please think about it it would really be a move that would further contribute to the transparency of collecting money long before the campaign. And I admit I didn't find the best solution if someone collected the campaign money and failed in the candidacy, so it doesn't work out for any reason whether the fate of that money is the best thing you'll ever see for yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67747	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. She's gone. She's losing her right to debate. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67748	Dear President, Ministers with Associates. So this proposed law deals for the first time in detail with issues that prevent non-transparent financing of political entities and their activities, especially in pre-election campaigns. As a result, the assessment of the general public, experts and NGOs is generally positive. Such an orderly area of funding for political parties and independent representatives has dramatically reduced the space for various corruption games and games, which is precisely on the trail of the fight against corruption so far. The decision to triple the donations of a natural person to a political party or an independent representative with a meaning of 90 thousand to 30 thousand kuna as a total amount of donation is also a legal person who is not allowed to exceed 200 thousand kuna is 5 times smaller than the previous one, which is multiplely significant for several reasons. There's gonna try to count them by what I think is significant. First, the amount of money i.e. The wealth of a party or individual must not be crucial to political victory but must win competence and honesty and honesty. Secondly, those companies, public companies, private companies, individual entrepreneurs, to whom various pressures will be directed at each election, with a demand how much they will give to donate money in the election campaign. It's already taken a lot of significant swings. Such pressure financing and donation of money to parties or individuals is, in fact, the beginning of planting or sowing of corruption whose fruits donors expect right after the election victory from the individual political option that will win the elections. It is significant that such corrupt harvests will no longer be counted on as well as on the financing of the campaign president because the donation has been reduced from one million kuna to two hundred thousand kunas. And thirdly, there are far greater obligations to publish financial reports, whether annual or election promotional, so that there will finally be real transparency and avoid various speculations, i.e. blurring donations or political harrass. The proposed Law introduces more seriousness or responsibility when applying for the President of the Republic of Croatia, so that all those pranksters who will run for various exhibitionist reasons and we have had the opportunity to see it, will first have to pay a deposit of 50 thousand kuna and only if they are justified and timely candidates can expect a return of this, otherwise they will cost them a lot of jokes, e-mails, shows of comedy at the expense of the candidateing of the President of the Republic of Croatia. The deposit is important to sanction a deliberate violation of the electoral process of state institutions. Finally, what I said at the outset is very important, and this is in line with the provision of this Law on the limitation of the total amount of the cost of the election promotion, so that certain amounts of the promotion are limited to all parties. Whether she's more or less rich, it's at this point and according to the law completely irrelevant. Each party's spending per constituency must be aware of a certain prescribed amount, it is now a million-and-a-half kuna for representatives of the Croatian Parliament, or I do not know 50 thousand kuna for members of the representative bodies of units of local, regional and regional self-government. And the extra donation will have to pay back to the donors. That's it. What I said at the beginning of this law is the possibility that elections in the future will be won by honesty and competence and not by wealth and similarity, i.e. those who have more and no matter how they get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67749	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67750	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I support this law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion more strongly than any previous law. This is one law that has experienced major changes until the second reading, and thanks to the extremely quality debate in the first reading, and not only was it looked at by party, I notice how much my observations have been accepted and by Mr. Lesar's accepted remarks, it just confirms that one general level has been considered. I am glad that article 6 was deleted, which allowed those who had deposited and had not applied for their deposit. There's no reason to pay them back, and I'm glad you accepted. It also accepted the suggestion that the funds paid for the winning mandates in smaller municipalities in special accounts are in the future not in special accounts but in the accounts of political parties because they are small amounts, and the high cost of opening accounts is excellent that you have also accepted it. I am also pleased that my proposal has been accepted to extend in Article 23 which prohibits donations to those against whom the payment procedure is conducted, to legal persons, to those who have debts to employees. And I think it's good and I really don't think we should be involved in financing political promotions by those who have debts to their employees because so far we've been in a big social paradox. The most high-ranking according to the financing of political activities and promotions was just the ones that were the longest. Those who closed down the factories, the rest of the debt to the state, the other debtors, the employees were just the most pronounced in financing. Also, those who do business and do not pay regular wages to a worker or supplier, or to a state obligation, are also banned and it is a great paper in this law. So isn't perfection a hypocrisy donated while at the same time being a duty. Is not the perfection of hypocrisy manifested by a benefactor at the heart of others. Wasn't the perfection of hypocrisy portrayed as a supporter of democratic processes, political pluralism, while at the same time cheating on everyone around you, cheating on the state, cheating on suppliers, cheating on their employees from whose work they live. Is there a greater economic crime than paying his employee's salary? Is there more economic crime than endangering his employee than his freedom, taking away his right to freedom? And taking away the right to pay is taking away the right to economic freedom, and taking away someone's economic freedom means taking away his freedom in general. It's easy to give someone else, it's easy to share kidnapped and unearthed, but this law prevents it and it's a good provision in the law. And I'm glad that the money that belongs to the state, the money that belongs to the suppliers, the money that belongs to the employee doesn't end up in political parties and in individual politicians, because that kind of money doesn't need politics. A colleague proved to me just before the debate when I said that a comment was accepted, says politics will remain without donations. There won't be much damage. True, there will be less, little payment, but the consequences are significantly less than the benefits we will benefit from what the law prescribes. So what could possibly be the consequences? Only Benigne, a few jumbo posters less, a few artificial and fake smiles with jumbo posters less, a little less work to do with what through photoshops embellish photos, a little less sponsored performances on TV or radios, a little less sponsored interviews, but not some big damage. Croatia and Croats will not lose anything, but may not hear for the hundredth time something they have heard 98 or 99 times. But that's why this law eliminates those who prefer the methodology for giving politics cucumbers and expect a melon truck from politics. Because what's motive and interest in giving millions and being indebted to everyone here. Just to get something in return either through state business or through some law. And this law prevents that from happening, and that's why I am mutually supportive of the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67751	We have one replica, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67752	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with you as you pointed out in your presentation that this law is a step more in introducing order when it comes to financing political campaigns. But I would also like to say that I agree in that part where you mentioned different types of politicians. I'd like to clear up actually one sentence that you mentioned that politicians with fake smiles are laughing from posters. Not all politicians are the same, or every man in himself is different, so so are those who deal with politics. There are fewer good politicians or more good politicians. Of course, we've seen a lot of things in the campaign, and of course there's a lot of those campaigns and a lot of those politicians that we really need to deal with rule of law. I will give only one example relating to one county in Croatia where it is well known that the candidate was wearing in the courtyards of the families of the powders, detergents, household supplies, and given the amount she applied for in the campaign, it is quite evident that all these gifts have cost a lot more and are even talking about some amounts of 5 million kuna that should have been given by one company in return to obtain a reconstruction of one road in that county. So I hope this law will contain such anomalies, because such anomalies are dangerous, they are punishable, and because of such anomalies, some politicians who cause them should respond. But what I think would be a good solution, and I don't see it in this law is precisely because of these tax relief anomalies for donors that are common in other Western countries both in Canada and Switzerland and in the Netherlands, and they facilitate the monitoring of money flows and encourage their donors to transparent campaign financing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67753	Thank you. Answer Mr. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67754	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with my colleagues that each individual is a bearer of his own virtues and disadvantages. And that politicians are nothing worse or better than any other segment of society. But there's one prejudice great in society that government spoils people and politics spoils people. I don't agree with that claim. I think bad people outside politics spoil politicians when they come into politics. And there's too much influence on that, and that's why this law is just preventing a lot of influence, and that's why I think it's good. And I've met all segments of society from the economy, from the scientific institutions, they're no politicians nor worse than all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67755	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67756	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A law like this is no doubt necessary. It is necessary because many of the standards that he is now uniting here are scattered throughout a series of laws, so he is more transparent. The only thing that seems to me is that he's immature, so we'd do well to have a third reading about him. Why? Well, here's the government has sent as many as 16 amendments to its own text, which means that the government is not quite sure what that law should look like. We are not sure whether another 12 amendments will come to the vote tomorrow to correct these amendments from the government itself. That's not good. In fact, it is good that the Government has a clear goal, that the Proposer has a clear goal where he wants to go, that they have a clear thought about it, and then that clear thought comes to a clear legal text. If we now have a case of 16 amendments to the motion itself, then we have to come to the conclusion that the matter has not matured to the end. And here I call on the Proposer to accept the proposal that has already been made here to implement this law and the third reading, to respect these remarks I have listened to which are founded on behalf of clubs and some amendments have been submitted that have been established and that we have a truly good solution. Now, parliamentary democracy is a constitutional category in Croatia. The parties are a constitutional category. If they represent constitutional values, and they represent themselves, so we have defined ourselves, then it would be good for us to strengthen this constitutional institute through this law but through all our practice. What does that mean? This means that the more the parties are financed from the budget of public money, and the less they are financed by some donations that are always questionable, why someone donates to the political site, the better. If we opted for a multiparty, that's worth it. But it's better to pay that price for public money than to pay for any private donation. That would have to be our principled attitude. This law introduces restrictions on some campaigns. Why are restrictions being introduced now, whether the ruling party is counting on the fact that after all these numerous unpleasant affairs no longer having donors because no one will dare to finance HDZ anymore, and then puts limits on everyone else or other reasons, I will not enter into it. But I think the limit of unrealized, unrealized restrictions will force parties and candidates to break those limits, and breaking the restrictions means breaking the law, so unrealized restrictions actually force them into lawlessness, and that's not good. You know, determining that a campaign for the mayor of Zagreb can be implemented effectively with 500 thousand kuna is not real, it is simply not real. Zagreb is almost a million city, there are many voters, and candidates need to introduce themselves, reach as many voters as possible. So they have to use some methods, is that a flyer, is that a poster, is that a letter, is that a survey, but what is done, but it costs. It can't be done for 500 thousand kuna. So I wonder what the idea is now, here's why it takes a third reading. Let's discuss this a little bit. Why now put that bar so low and force those candidates to actually break the law. 50,000 kuna deposit for candidate for President of the Republic. I understand the intensity, we'd like to avoid any such exhibitionists appearing as potential candidates for the President of the Republic, we'd like to take this candidacy a little serious and the intensity is completely justified. But if that's exactly what we're gonna do, is the smartest way to do it, I'm not sure. I'm not sure because that's why a citizen with ambition is running for President of the Republic we're moving away from that campaign and from that ambition if there's no 50,000 kuna savings. So we're introducing some censorship property, a financial censorship for the candidacy in a democratic process for the highest function in the state. I don't think that's the happiest solution. I don't have any other solution I'd like to offer you right now, but I'm sure if we discuss it a little bit more in the third reading, we'll find something more democratic and something smarter than what's proposed here. Now, we've had the law so far, and it's not the law's problem. It's not the law's problem, the problem's in practice. And so far, it has been seen by all of us that one party appears with its marketing messages on such a scale that it is more represented than all the other parties combined. Former President Mesic in his election campaign, his last election campaign, when he competed for the second term, may have made a bit of a distasteful joke and put it on, so he said a comparison with the pâté, afraid to open a man's pashté, as it is the anti-candidate. It was so aggressive of that advertising that you pardon was expensive and expensive. And it is quite clear that this party spent but disproportionately more money on the campaign than it declared, and there was law. There was a law. I am not in that law that existed and still stands until we bring this one, I have not seen any provision that the parties can be financed by a racket from public companies. I've never seen a provision anywhere that a party can be brought into a party safe of money in a black bag. There was no such provision, and yet it was done. And that's the problem, the problem is in practice, not just in law. What about the legitimacy of the authorities that won corruption? This law does not solve it either, and the question is whether it can be settled in law at all, is it possible to write such a law that would question the legitimacy of the government that was won by corruption and stolen money. Because if someone in the campaign could have spent 10 times as much as any other party, and that money wasn't clean, that it was taken, stolen, won by corruption, then I'm asking whether that authority is legitimate at all, who it represents. Whether it represents those who gave or had to give or represent the citizens. Look, when this happens in civilized democratic countries, when such a scale of political corruption happens, only one solution is always sought, new elections. It's a democratic formula. I don't know the governments in the world, in the democratic world, I don't know such a government that would survive two days after this many, these forces of corruption affairs. It's not one, it's not two, it's not small money in the game. That's what citizens want, that's what citizens expect. Let's not play Egypt where citizens ask Mubarak to leave, and Mubarak wants to stay for the rest of his term. And it's obvious that the people don't want it anymore. When it happens in one country, the democratic term is the elections. And this law needs to be passed, it needs to be fixed, but we must first of all correct political practice. So democratic standards, people's will, new elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67757	Thank you very much. It is up to MP Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67758	My colleagues and colleagues. In the course of my predecessor's discussion, allow me to say a few words about the purpose and expectations of this law and about what we can actually expect and what it seems to me to be necessary to do if these purposes set out in the reasoning of the proposal of this law are not feasible by this law. So, I do not intend to enter into the reasons or motives of the adoption of this bill, whether they are encouraged by the fact that the European Union is seeking compliance with norms or which apply to most democratic European countries, or by Wednesday is the original urge of the Government and the ruling majority that finally, after everything that is happening, puts a little more order into this far-fetched area of public and social life of Croatia, which has been burdening and traumatising Croatia and its citizens for 20 years, and whose result is the situation in which we are today morally speaking, the psychological state of the nation that is all but satisfactory. It is obvious that this law is expected to introduce more order, more transparency, and so also honesty in the financing of political parties, and I would say since political parties and habitats may be an essential part of democratic life, political life in the country, perhaps respecting policy as an activity, as well as business, and as if you want missions taken by some people or groups of people when it comes to supporting the public interests of the citizens of this country. However, I do not belong to a group of normative optimists, and I do not believe that law and one law can be sufficient to change. He is contitio son qua non, he may be a necessary condition, but it is not the only condition to change political practice. The laws we had so far also did not allow the political practice we had in action, and this political practice which was inaugurated by me with a serious apology to colleagues from the other side is actually the voters of HDZ, among which there are a lot of honest, honest patriotic and patriotic people, and I do not want to offend them. But the practice introduced by the ruling party, now the ruling and 17-year-old ruling parties are the result of what we have and what we should seriously and radically change in Croatia's political life. What is this political practice when it comes to a political party or parties brought to Croatia? Unfortunately, she brought only understandablely almost legal and legitimate purchases of council mandates. This has been happening for 20 years in Croatia, it is almost considered the most normal thing. It has not yet happened that someone has responded because it has also been proven to have worked on blackmail, to buy council mandates, and in this way in the past, in those past four years I think 57 units of local self-government have changed power without a choice. Right now, we have a case in Koprivnica-Kryzeva County to buy a councilhouse and her vote for a job she won at school. I won't speak, but I can refer to him as a personal example. Two councilmen defected from the ruling coalition at the time when I was mayor of Sisak proved it and the police have both evidence and arguments and the State's Attorney's office knows it. Two councilmen were bought. There's no doubt about that. They didn't even try to hide it or hide it. One of them took all his old furniture to the building the day he got the money, so all the neighbors could see it. So this practice of buying council terms is something that has never experienced a true and true condemnation from all political parties and actors of political life. Croatia is unfortunately an inaugural rule of buying coalition partners. No one in Croatia has ever been disgusted by something that appeared legitimate a few years ago when the Croatian party of pensioners said it was perfectly normal for them to co-ordinate with those in power. That deideologies actually politics, giving up any value and that so-called. Political pragmatism is murderous. He is deadly, in fact, to the normal democratic functioning of a country. Later said and the Peasant Party or some other parties have said no, we can only achieve our interests if we are in power. We need to start thinking about that that's not normal and it's not an argument that should be used because it points to political corruption a couple of excellences. Also, legal and legitimate employment of party likers. Come on, please! In the town of Sisko, I'm talking about a city I know is 250 members of the SDP. None of these 250 members are employed by God in the city administration or any of the city's companies, and I have to say that by the expense of probability someone would have to be employed because the city and the city's businesses employ about 1,000 people out of a total of about 12 or 13000 employees would have to be at least one of them a member of that party that is not in power. But we all know that. We can now argue and replicate here. But that's the way it is. It has become a political practice that is common, normal, to which no one reacts anymore. Legally and legitimately, it was putting money into party registers and in its own pockets in public procurement processes. So we know how this story took place, how much and to what extent it was contaminated by just the party pressures of the people who ran these public companies. They're all illegal stores. They're all illegal shops, but they happened. Legal racket. Please use state institutions, police, tax administrations to those who have not agreed to the racket. It is also part of political practice that is almost legalised and normal in Croatia in the last 20 years. The fact is, I say again without insulting, not wanting to offend anyone that such practice has been inaugurated by a political party in Croatia. It is irrelevant for us here from the point of view of society whether honesty is in the action of the Social Democrats or of Croatia to a pure party of rights or not. But what matters to us is what kind of relationship and relationship these issues have to do with the biggest parties in this case, HDZ, so I'll say SDP. The SDP is also at risk, threatened by this fact because it is the party it predominates, and I saw it in '99. The years that will come to power, there are so-called. pragmatics, macarovelists who think the party can be rented, entered, and then make political profit for themselves, for their own, for their own group, etc. That's why it's not only criticism to one party, it's one practice that has to change. This law can help, but it can't be enough if in the biggest parties, in this case we're talking about a party that's... This practice, not radical reform, reform in the minds of people that political and political engagement will not bring them personal, material breakthroughs and profits, nor to them, nor theirs, but that people join parties for the sake of world view, so if you want reasons, but also because of what is the purpose of politics, to influence social events for the sake of believing in the better lives of people in our country. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67759	We have one correction and one replica. Advocacy Ana Lovrin, rectification of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67760	Madam Vice President. A fellow representative said no one was disgusted or a similar expression, I can't remember now, so over the proven purchases of council mandates. That's not true. Here I am disgusting myself, although there are no proven purchases of council mandates, but there are very strong indications that the parties offered each other certain benefits to change the party, and I think it is for the ultimate condemnation and that it is not so good, and that mechanisms should be designed not to happen, but I think it will simply be a democratic tradition in our country. But here I am disgusted by that, but I am also disgusted by the fact that the abuse of minority electoral rights has been committed, so we know that in one county, which is very close to you, and somewhere there you have been the right of national minorities to be abused, to a number of MPs in the assembly, and then to be invited to vote by those members of national minorities in the leading posts, on the lists, and then resignations were submitted, and the number of council members from their ranks was complemented, by the number belonging to the national minority. So first of all, I think it's the same abuse, and it's especially unfair to use national minorities for that purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67761	We have a replica of my colleague Dubravka Shuice, but before that, I will ask you only to respect the time of all MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67762	Here's what I've decided for the replica, because I haven't found a model to correct an incorrect quote. You were talking about buying coalition partners. I'd like to make a suggestion here today. I think if we were to inaugurate in Croatia a system that is valid in the UK, which is a relative majority, that one who won a relative majority at local level, in the city council, in the municipal council, in the county council, has the right to form a coalition. There would be no harsh abuses at that time, because this is how citizens' will is played roughly and voters' will is played roughly. Because one who did not have a relative majority, but several small parties or independent lists join together and form the majority in the city council. That's how the injured voter's will is important, and it's just been played. We have one example in particular in Dubrovnik, where one independent list decides every time about city government, one time about this one, ours, another time about this other, and that independent list is actually the one that takes precedence, and thus the voters are brutally played. I suggest that the next amendment to the law be considered for the relative majority to be what should be respected in Croatia. As for the reform of the consciousness that you were talking about, it will come with a democratic tradition, and I believe that we in Croatia will grow a little bit, and we will realize that selling the mandate is not particularly a moral or honorable act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67763	Replication response, MP Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67764	Well, I certainly not only agree in principle with your proposal, and I think that really blackmails that go towards the biggest parties and bring actually these biggest parties into the inability to realise the political programmes on which they received majority support, is also an additional source... in the political sphere. [[You don't understand.]] So I think that this issue is quite legitimate and perhaps the ruling majority can now put it on the agenda as possible, as part of a possible change of electoral legislation. I would support such a single proposal, whether not quite so or in that intensity anyway. As for the change of consciousness. You know as long as we have an authoritarian system, a non-democratic system of governance in our parties, as long as we don't have a sufficiently transparent and democratic system of elections within political parties, while we don't have the democratic flexibility within the parties, so far we'll have these authoritarian, non-democratic coups that she's experienced, for example. Your party, which I hope will require in the time it comes and for its own sake, but also for Croatia, Croatia will need a democratic one,... A normal, democratic party, that step will take place. [[You don't understand.]] This is a really good wish, and there's no criticism of just you and your stranger.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67765	It's time for the debate of Agent Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67766	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here I will certainly support the adoption of this law. The law that is before us today is certainly a further step in transparency and clear collection and spending of funds for the work of political parties, independent candidates and independent lists. In 2006, we passed the Law on the financing of political parties, independent lists and candidates, and that law was in some way said revolutionary or was, there was a drastically altered way of financing. For the first time, this law introduces the restriction of donations that a natural, or legal person can give to a particular political party. For the first time, the law identified illicit sources of funding, identified the issue of monitoring the collection and spending of political parties' funds, and was then indeed an important step and a measure to prevent the fight against corruption. But here, already in the three-year application of this law, certain irregularities have been observed, and in addition, what is more important is this matter, so funding and election promotions and political activities throughout this time are covered by around 5 laws that in various ways... unequivocally depending on whether it is elections for the President of the Republic, elections for MPs, elections for representative bodies of local units or elections for mayors, mayors and mayors. So he treats this matter differently. And that's why it's good to have this whole theme covered by one single law. And when the 2006 or 2007 legislation was discussed, it was discussed whether an election campaign should be considered, whether it should be regulated in particular, whether campaign funds should be allocated, whether special accounts should be held, etc. At that time, the opinion prevailed that the political party's activity was, in fact, the whole period of activity that ultimately leads to elections and campaigns. However, as I said back then in 2008. The government has set up a multidisciplinary group precisely to produce a full analysis of the existing legislative regulations and proposals for a full solution. Meanwhile, the recommendations of GRECO have arrived. So it's a group of states in the fight against corruption. The body, which in approximately 5.6 recommended, united what would be good, and in order of course to use the means transparent and clear, which should be done in political activity. And here's this law that's in front of us is the result of that, so the law relative to the present, so it's an extended circle of forbidden donations that I also particularly welcome. This was widely discussed by counterpart Maric, but it is really unacceptable for someone who owes public donations to make donations to political parties or independent candidates at the same time because it points out nothing but to expect a certain benefit and to encourage post-election corruption. Therefore, the limited choice of donations is much more restrictive than it has been so far. And we heard here, and I would agree with that, that political parties are indeed one lever and constitutional category of democracy as well as parliamentaryism. And that it would be good and that it would be more desirable for them to be financed as much as possible from public funds, so from the budget. This will also happen in this way, regardless of what may be heard, the objection that these funds are reduced in the amount of 10% foreseen in the budget for those purposes. At the same time, however, there are drastically reduced grant limits. So this is relative to individuals 3 times smaller, and compared to legal persons 5 times less. So, drastically reduced sources of donations, and slightly compared to that, these sources from the budget as public money. Which means, however, that the sum of this funding will go towards the budget, which is good. And this does not mean that parties, especially large ones, will not have to learn one more modest action and that all their presentations of their electoral programmes, however large and how large they cover the entire territory of Croatia will have to be included in these reduced funds, this is possible. After all, political parties will show that they live and follow the fate of citizens in general in view of these times. So it is also a newspaper that for the first time in this law there is a limited amount of consumption in the election promotion. There have also been a lot of speeches about this, and it certainly favors parties, smaller parties or those who may not be able to, after being represented in parliament or in the presidential bodies, raise the amount of funds. That amount is therefore limited. What we should consider, what we have also talked about on the working bodies, is a provision on spending funds for election promotion in the elections for the presidential bodies of the local self-government unit where a certain amount of 50 thousand kuna is too small and makes no difference, for example, between the City of Zagreb or some municipality that has less than 3,000 inhabitants. And for the head of the municipality, the same amount has been determined, and I argue that the head of such a municipality is not only unable to raise 50 thousand kuna, but it simply has no place in promoting or spending them, and I don't know if there is room to think about it, that is, that this amount for the election of the presidential bodies is also determined ranked according to the size of the local, or regional unit. What is also important and what is important in this law compared to the previous one is to ensure supervision and control, but now from completely independent bodies. Therefore, there was an objection to the former control of the Ministry of Finance that it cannot be independent and impartial, so now only the DIP and the State Audit remain in control. What we should finally say is that we can support this law. In order to disagree with a colleague who said that he is immature and unspeakable because of these 16 government amendments seem to me because these amendments actually change nothing significantly in the proposed text, i.e. they do, in a good way, do not technically correct him and express this intensities of the law more clearly, which is to separate funds for political work of parties and funds for election promotion, and only more clearly, is it necessary to open a special account and a special account for the financing and spending of election promotion. Therefore, nothing is confusing and nothing is new in these amendments, so I think the amendments just increased the quality of the text and made it more clear to the full law and therefore I will, of course, support the adoption of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67767	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The word has Ivo Grbić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67768	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that I support the adoption of the Law on the financing of political activities and promotions, as well as the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the objections of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to the Final Proposal of the Law. Namely, on the basis of opinions expressed and remarks with the debate in the Croatian Parliament and respecting the European Commission's observations, the existing legal solutions have been upgraded in all those issues which are insufficiently regulated and have identified better quality and more appropriate solutions to individual issues which are relevant to the legality and regularity of the implementation of the elections. This law on the financing of political activities and election promotions improves in accordance with European countries' standards and practices. Thus, as control mechanisms for the implementation of the Law, independent competent authorities are established and this is the State Election Commission and the State Audit Office, which clearly distinguishes the competence of those bodies in such a way that all transactions relating to the supervision of the financing of electoral promotion are in the jurisdiction of the State Election Commission, which has been carried out since the date of opening of the special account for the financing of the electoral promotion, until the end of the transactions in those accounts. As the State Audit Office conducts an audit of the annual financial operations and annual financial reports of political parties, independent representatives and independent members of representative bodies of units of local, regional and regional self-government and not supervision. In accordance with the Law governing the work of the State Audit Office and international audit standards. Furthermore, the proposed Law lays down as an obligation to units of local, regional and regional self-government, to provide funding in the budget for the regular annual financing of political parties and independent members of representative bodies, as well as sanctions for not providing such funds, for irregular payment and for not paying the cost of election promotion within the prescribed time limit. All participants in the election are also obliged to open a special account for the financing of the electoral promotion, as early as possible, and donations can be collected at the latest by the deadline set for the delivery of the financial report on the financing of the electoral promotion. The total amount of election promotion costs per candidate or candidate list at local level is also limited, which is determined according to the population criterion in individual units of local and regional self-government. In the event that the total amount of the donation exceeds the eligible amount of the election promotion costs, the political parties, the holders of the independent lists and candidates of the surplus funds shall be obliged to repay the payers to the relatively donated amount. The proposed Law further lays down provisions laying down the way in which funds are allocated to compensation for election promotion costs. In this regard, elections for representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as well as elections for members of the representative bodies of the units of local, regional, regional self-government, funds for the cost of election promotion are allocated to the relative number of seats won. While in the elections for the President of the Republic of Croatia, and in the elections for municipal chiefs, mayors, and mayor of the City of Zagreb, funds for the cost of election promotion are allocated in proportion to the votes received. In particular, the maximum amount of donation granted by a natural and legal person is prescribed and provisions on prohibited sources of financing are developed. I would stress the ban on the financing of political parties by companies and other legal persons in which the Republic of Croatia has a share or shares, as well as of natural and legal persons against whom the procedure for the collection of outstanding liabilities to the budget or employees is conducted. In addition to the tax-related infringements with the corresponding fines in the Bill proposal, the possibility of giving in the administrative procedure a number of types of administrative sanctions and this total loss of the cost of the election promotion, partial loss of compensation and suspension of the fee. The decision of the National Election Commission to impose such administrative sanctions is not subject to appeal but may be initiated by an administrative dispute. In order to ensure public information on the implementation of control over the financing of the electoral promotion, reports by the State Election Commission on the monitoring of the financing of election promotion and the decision of the State Election Commission on administrative sanctions shall be made public. In view of this and in view of the fact that this law complies with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, I support the adoption of the Law on the financing of political activities and electoral promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67769	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67770	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. There is a law before us that will have and has a very powerful influence on the political system in us. Some provisions around may seem harmless but will leave a deep mark on relations between political options. During the debate, there were a lot of findings about how there is one part of the political options in Croatia that are related to a particular population, which is normal and legitimate in itself. The problem arises when these political options by insisting on their own programmes, which is normal and legitimately practical to this extent burden the state budget and the economic system to lead the entire society towards a decline in competitiveness of the economy which, of course, has serious consequences for everything. It would probably be very easy for the largest political parties to agree that the bipartisan is the best solution but also such a situation actually impoverishes the political system, reduces political ideas, reduces ultimately and debate, and of course it would not be a system that enables society to develop more quickly both economically and otherwise. The question that has been raised is why does someone finance different political parties? Some people in certain options are willing to do so politically and materially support it, some of which have an interest. It is also not undemocratic that certain groups support a political option that can provide them with certain and new economic activities, therefore new jobs. There have been cases that most of the construction sector, for example, supported a political option by assessing that it could provide itself with jobs in the future. And it's also legitimate, in itself it's not in any way problematic. The problem arises when that border of legal system financing is crossed and is passed through black funds, money extraction, and thus practically buys power, creates one relationship in Parliament and different representative authorities that does not correspond to the real interests and wishes of voters, but to individual stakeholders who have financed such a way of coming to power. Of course, through law, such situations should be limited to the maximum possible extent. The question is, in fact, which way and whether excessive administration is the best model that will lead to it. When it comes to this particular law, I'm afraid of something else. He has excessively normised and leads to his insistence on numerous reports that are in themselves not problematic, but can lead to just over-complicated complexity of the system to make it easier for political options to finance black bags, draw money from a legal system. And here we actually come to where is actually this real border where one norm is controlled by the system so that it does not go in the unwanted direction, and in the other way, by crossing that border, we do not bring the political system and stakeholders to practically black money financing campaigns. It was precisely one such model that was very strong in the last parliamentary elections but it was not in anyone's interest. So we all need to get in the way together and find the right model. It was also said that it might be better to limit funding to sources from public legal resources. The question to what extent and how these weaknesses would be removed. In the HSP, too, we believe that this is the right way, and not especially the public publication of reports on who is funding the campaign. I am afraid that such a model, although on the one hand, represents the full public who is who he has funded, is actually leading the two-party but it leads and shuts down some political options that certainly have something to offer to Croatia's political space and can give different views, new ideas to refresh both political space and to enter a newspaper that will ensure the development of society as a whole. As a result, it is better to have legal and legitimate sources from the budget that state and different units of local self-government to a greater extent, and to a lesser extent rely on black funds that can and through excessive norms that exist in this law actually get one wind in the back. Finally, I am joining those who have made their point today so that this law would be good for a third reading so that it would not be too quick to pass an extremely significant law on the political system that we have to change it on the one hand, and on the other hand that we have the development of a society that is not what we would like. Therefore, the vote of the HSP will also go according to the proposal to refer this law to the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67771	Thank you. We have the first line, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67772	Here's a fellow Serb you mentioned the biggest problem, it was a problem that Croatia unfortunately enjoyed the problem of funding through black funds from black bags. Practically, when this law is better read, in particular Article 14 of the duty to open a special account for funding from donations of political parties and independent lists, then it is essentially perfectly clear what happened with Croatia. And the question is how many people who have acted like this can if they already propose law enforcement. So it's kind of like that in principle. Because these black funds that you mentioned on several occasions the black bags that are now taking place and whose contents are now being dispersed in front of many of our domestic courts therefore indicate something that was clear to everyone. Remember how many oxen have been roasted, how many rams, sheep have been roasted, and now Croatia's development programme should be based on the employment of shepherds, and sheep have long, long since been roasted. So, as much as all these campaigns, as many other parties, all of them, except for the ruling that the sums were spent, don't even need to be counted, that was perfectly clear to everyone. So, that the party was organized, to drink, to eat, to invite the people who were robbed and then to offer them such food. Of course, part of it went into private pockets as well. It's one of the big problems that I think we're finally going to end up with, but what remains very speculative, which is so-called. a political racket when officials of any level, even local levels call on businessmen to donate to them. It has to be the strictest conviction, because they're the very poor ones who don't volunteer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67773	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67774	Not voluntarily, but to get later...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67775	You're neither AWOL nor a U.S. Attorney's office nor a judge, and that's how you rule and that's what you say. Mr. Srb, you have the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67776	Thank you very much. So, esteemed colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic spoke about what and how it happens when different officials at different units of local self-government, but also top state officials are actually turning campaign financing from those of particular interest. Of course, all of this is sometimes totally legal and legitimate, but we have come as a society that individual powerful entrepreneurs have an interest in coming to different positions of the executive authority to use them further to develop their entrepreneurial ventures. So, first of all, it is not their primary goal to solve citizens’ problems but to have different interests. And we, in fact, have kind of promoted this idea with the system so far, and that is something that has proved extremely bad in each individual case as it is in different places in Croatia. This should, first and foremost, alert people to the harmfulness of such situations by awakening their consciousness. So there are also political parties, there are individuals, independent candidates who are willing and willing to solve the problems of society or the environment they represent. On the other hand, there is, of course, the interest of entrepreneurs and capital that, through different and representative bodies and executive bodies, they achieve their entrepreneurial ventures. What needs to be ensured by law is that it is both in the function of developing a society of citizens, not individuals who have their own particular interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67777	And another replica, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67778	Thank you. Mr. Srb encouraged me to think, I didn't hear from anyone this morning what about those donors that finance both of them and the other and the third, whether the legislator might have thought about it because there are cases like this, believe me. What are the motives of these donors, how they're going to get in the way of such ones, and that's one really moral question, I don't know if the law can fix it. I personally join those who are in order to get the most money out of the budget, whether local or state, without having less space left for donors. As for the political rackets, they themselves resort, themselves inauguration the racket, not inauguration by politicians, but by those individuals who want to achieve some of their interests. And I simply believe that by matured political culture and democracy, this will also be resolved with us, and if there are legal opportunities, therefore I am to introduce it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67779	Answer, Mr. Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67780	Thank you very much. So this is an unusually interesting question that I missed in the debate. In fact, there are a really large number of entrepreneurs who need to finance different policy options to ensure themselves a better post-election position, no matter what level. But the fundamental question is whether these ideas come from entrepreneurs who want to ensure themselves through it, and something that objectively may not belong to them, or whether political practice in us is such that certain economic operators and the large ones, and also the great reputation of society, actually imposes a system in which they have to act in order to survive economically. And that is one question that must also be answered in the right way by developing our society in the direction that I believe we all want to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67781	Thank you. It's Madam Representative Biserka Vranic's turn. Here you go. She's gone. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. He's gone. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. Does he want the minister to conclude? Here you go. Minister Mlakar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67782	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I believe I'm obliged to say a few things because maybe we can explain what they were in doubt about some of the MPs they expressed in their debate, if you'll excuse me. I'm not going to look back on those intense reports and the principle debates since the second reading is the law, so we should talk about concrete remarks. I'd like to stick to what I think might further clarify the reasons and need to pass this law. We heard and thanked Lovrin, who said that the government had already passed for the first time in 2006 a law that introduced some restrictions on the financing of political parties' work. Everyone was surprised and referred to why the Government is now, only now or why it is going with this law pressed by some European Union order. I am obliged here to say neither in 2006 nor in 2006 did the government have any warrant for the adoption of this law nor today has a warrant. The government made its own commitment because it held that the issue should be regulated by law. In addition, she introduced some provisions into the law, and because of the fact that we saw that in the implementation of the 2006 law, some situations might not have been solved in the best way. This is also the part of the event if you want to discuss the latest elections that have expressed a lot of doubts about the fact that individual political campaigns are being financed. All of these were the reasons why the Government decided to draw up this Law on the financing of political activities of electoral promotion and what represented a particular codification of the five laws that each in part regulated financing, whether local elections or elections of representatives or elections for the President of the Republic. We therefore believe that this law is worth passing and that there are no reasons, as some have pointed out in their discussions, for some third reading of the law. I will try this once again to support this thesis and the fact that of these 16 amendments that are now considered to be a very large number of 12 amendments or even 13 are absolutely technical, i.e. the consequences of two important changes. Two important changes to that law in the first reading are the fact that we have arranged the way of control, that one part of the control of regular business and regular work of all political entities is audited by the State Audit Office. And the second part, that everything else in particular election promotion and all activities in the election promotion oversees and controls independently and through the competent authorities, the State Election Commission. The result of this norm was then some amendments to other articles where only the technique of implementation of that basic norm was discussed. And secondly, there are a dozen amendments to the fact that we have decided that all those involved in the political game are obliged to open special accounts for the election promotion, where they will raise funds for election promotions, which caused a dozen amendments because we had to add municipal chiefs and mayors to the text of the law. In no part of this, we have changed the meaning of the existing law and therefore we hold that there would be no reason to have a third reading, but that the law is perfectly clear and that it can be absolutely adopted in this text. We've already received part of the amendment to the text. I just wanted to, I think it's important for the public to specifically refer to the presentation of representatives of the SDP club who said that we banned the financing of political work by legal persons who owed taxes. So just to clarify that this norm is not so, but to prohibit the financing of natural and legal persons against whom the payment procedure for outstanding outstanding liabilities to the budget or employees is conducted. Why would I try to explain that kind of expression? Maybe that's how we solved some dilemmas. Because where the process is being conducted, we're quite certain and we have information that such a firm or some private activity is in constant trouble. Secondly, that it is not only about taxes but also about all possible contributions to employees and all budget-based contributions to local units, either to the state budget. What we think is enough to this extent, if it were to go beyond this norm, there is a danger that some who conduct claims disputes that can later in fact prove that these companies are rightly thought that it would be a rigorous measure if they were included here too because it can be proven that these companies were in fact completely insolvent by some compensations or other transactions and that they could also afford to finance political action. What I wanted to correct is because very often as a government, we are called here and I would say unprofessional work. You couldn't find anywhere in these materials that the proposer of this law or any part of the Ministry of Administration. The proposer and this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I made it up because we think this area can be arranged in this way because we think that this system is whatever it is, no law is all-powerful and that it will completely deprive us of the possibility of acrobatics in the financing of everything that's been said in the debates. We believe that it is a good enough framework to be very clear and precise in determining how funding, sources of funding, and then to set possible sanctions for those who do not comply with the provisions of this law. One thing I am obliged to say and I think it is good to know Article 23 is particularly apostropheal, which concerns financing by foreigners of natural persons why this standard for foreigners, natural persons remain in the law, is the fact that according to our laws already in force by the parties, citizens of the European Union countries living in the territory of the Republic of Croatia have an active and passive voting right for representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government. So they can be members of representative bodies. Under the law, they can run for either municipal, city council or county councils, so we believe that they should open up the possibility of being one of those who can report to the funding of political campaigns and therefore the norm in the law exists. Here's a thank you to everyone who participated. We'll have time to show ourselves about the amendments that we got on this text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67783	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. And now I am announcing a break up to 15.00 hours and we are starting the same already announced agenda point Final bill on preventing conflicts of interest, second reading, P.Z. No. 703. At 3:00. Thank you. We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion, the second was reading, P.Z.E. No. 544. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment has been submitted to you on benches. I would like the representative of Minister Davorin Mlakar's proposal to be shown about the amendments. We begin with the first amendment of the National Minority Club to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67785	The government does not accept the amendment since it is the sources of financing the work of political parties and independent MPs, we believe that there may be a lack of understanding of this article of the law. Therefore, independent members cannot be financed from party events, so this amendment should therefore be rejected, and the funding has been settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67786	Please let the National Minority Representatives' Club be made manifest. Here you go. ... The amendment is withdrawing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now, please, Ministers, Mr. Slavko Linic and Mr. Luka Denon have been looking for you. Here you go. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't, I didn't take part in it. I read the results. ... What do we do? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Representative claims it's in print in those 77... Oh, no? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And three abstentions? Well then, and you are not abstentions? ... Then we'll accept, we believe it's not 3 but 2. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You know what, like this: we can control it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What does it say, shall we vote again? ... What? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here's the president of the HDZ Club... Please! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67787	Mr. President, the number for the quorum has been accepted, a figure of 77 positive votes has been met and the vote is legal. Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67788	Gentlemen, on behalf of the SDSS Club Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Please be patient, we'll settle everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67789	My colleagues and colleagues, we all saw that a colleague of Denon went out among the last of SDP, HNS and IDS. Therefore, it is not disputed that he was not here, it is only disputed how it happened that it was written that he was. As far as we're concerned, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, the Club of National Minorities, we don't see any reason not to repeat this vote and remove any doubts as to whether this is an irregularity. It's not about irregularity because nobody on the other hand has moved on to the SDP benches and on this side. So it's a technical error that we don't now have an explanation for why it happened. But that's why I'm asking the president of the HDZ Club to accept a repeat vote. We don't have any problems with that. We have a quorum, we have most of it, and it can happen again. [[Intruder: We accept.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67790	We are going to Amendment 2 on the Proposal for a Law on the financing of political activities of the parties, the 2nd Amendment of the Representatives, Mršić, in Article 3(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67791	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government does not accept Mršić's amendment as its amendment stipulates that each unit of local self-government should provide an exact amount of funding for regular annual financing. Since they have an obligation to provide funding for the parties, we believe that in the self-rule of each unit that it determines the amount of funds it will spend on this, therefore we cannot accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67792	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonimir Mrsic is missing. We're voting on the amendment. Who's for this amendment to raise your hand? He didn't get the necessary majority. The third amendment is an integral part of the proposal, it is an amendment to the government. We are going to the 4th Amendment of Representative Zvonimir Mršić to Article 12(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67793	The government accepts the amendment of the MPs. He accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67794	Please be a little louder because in a noise like this, it's hard to hear. So the Fourth Amendment to Article 12 was accepted. Amendment 5 of the same agent to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67795	The government also accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67796	And that amendment has been accepted. Then, the Government's amendment, which is an integral part of the proposal, the 6th Amendment to Article 14, was adopted. 7. The Government was also accepted on Article 15, becoming an integral part of the proposal. 8. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67797	The government does not accept the amendment as to whether the cost of election promotion is calculated by one constituency or by the constituency. In the event of the adoption of this amendment, the political party could, although competing, possibly use funds increased by 7 or 10 times for promotion in one constituency. We have decided on these asset limits and we do not think that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67798	Thank you. Mr. Richembergh's HNSU counseling club. Thank you for this amendment that the government doesn't normally accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. 9th Amendment of MPs Ana Lovrin and Emil Tomljanović to Article 17(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67799	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67800	This amendment becomes an integral part of the bill. Ten. Article 18 of the HNS HSU representative club
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67801	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67802	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 14. Article 19 of the HNS HSU Representatives Club
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67803	The government does not accept the amendment, it is a compensation for the electoral promotion of members in the European Parliament, since in this way the election is arranged for the first time different from the regular elections because there are preferred votes or preferential principles we have kept the decision that only those who receive that preferred number of votes of 10% have the right to compensate for election promotion costs as set out in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67804	Mr. Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67805	The decision advocated by the government is completely illogical because it turns out that the list that wins 5% in the parliamentary elections and does not enter the parliament, because it is also possible theoretically, can receive a refund of costs, and a parliamentary representative in the European Parliament who enters with 7.2% and his party has no right to anything. It's completely illogical and I'm asking for a vote of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67806	Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 12. National Minority Clubs in Article 19(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67807	I will now read it carefully, the Government accepts the amendment, but it would propose a different text, so the meaning is accepted, and the text that is acceptable would read: "In Article 19, paragraph 3 behind the word "political party" is deleted and the word "i" is added, and the words "candidates for representatives of national minorities" are deleted.". Under subparagraph 3., subparagraphs 4 and 5 are added, which reads: "candidates for representatives of members of national minorities who became representatives of the Croatian Parliament and candidates for representatives of national minorities represented in the population of the Republic of Croatia with less than 1.5% of the population who did not become representatives of the Croatian Parliament after the election and who received more than 15% of the valid votes of the electorate voters are entitled to a fee of 15% above the amount of compensation belonging to the MP".
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67808	Mr Furio Radin on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67809	Okay, we accept the government's interpretation and this new formulation given by the government at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67810	Okay, a formulation was accepted as the minister read here, and so much has been agreed by the club that suggested it. Let's move on. The 13th Amendment of the Government is an integral part of the proposal in Article 21. 14th Amendment of Representative Joseph Lek in Article 23(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67811	The government doesn't accept the amendment. We'll try and say it yesterday in the final word but I'll repeat it, so it's the purpose of the amendment to ban, or not to allow campaign funding for election or foreign natural persons. Since our Law on Elections in the European Parliament, but also the Law that allows citizens of the European Union living in Croatia to have an active and passive electoral right for the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government, can be elected to those bodies, it seems to us that they have the right and the possibility to finance political campaigns of any of their own candidates, so I do not accept this amendment by Mr Leka.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67812	Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67813	This explanation I've heard from the government gives us logic. If the purpose was to help members or citizens of EU countries who are eligible to choose and be elected in Croatia, then it would be logical to leave that they can receive donations from foreign countries' political parties. It's an interest. But you don't allow donations from political parties to be received, even if they were sisterly, and you leave the individual citizen to make donations. I have to say, that reminds me that you're opening a peach money laundering. Excuse me, you do not allow political parties to assist the political representatives they want, and you allow the citizens of some foreign states to have an interest in supporting some choice. So where's the logic, dear gentlemen? Where's the logic? She's gone, and you haven't given me an explanation why you're against banning donations from those legal and physical persons who have reached debt to workers or budgets. And you haven't given me an explanation, and it's the same amendment. So I'm asking you to vote on both one and the other amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67814	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority of this amendment. And now we do. What amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67815	The reasons for the amendments and, on the second part of subparagraph 6, I was not able to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67816	Okay. Then sub-paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67817	Even though we talked about it yesterday. The point of the amendment is even though yesterday it was said to prohibit funding for those companies or companies that have outstanding tax obligations is actually our solution in a broader law. It is not a tax matter but a matter of all debt to the budgets, whether it is a state budget or units of local self-government, but also if they have debts to their employees, such companies cannot appear in the financing of political activities. What we have left to do is to conduct the procedure, because only if the procedure is conducted will we be able to determine with certainty what entities that have these debts, if we do not have the fact that the procedures for the collection of eligible claims are very difficult to determine which entities they are, and have emerged as potential campaign financiers, so we have not accepted your amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67818	It's an integral part of the amendment. But we didn't even say no. The amendment is absolute, we have nothing more to do now. He's been rejected and over. You've had the opportunity to explain your opposition to the government's proposal. ... So the amendment was rejected. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Before he was denied, you were right and you were speaking. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And then we voted and it didn't go through. And now we're moving on. And there is no part of the amendments we have voted on in parts of the amendment, but on the entire amendment. Please, we've got this now. Amendments of the Government 15 to Article 23, Article 28, and Article 29 to Article 32, and Article 35 to Article 36, 37, and then Article 38, 39, 41 and 44. These amendments become an integral part of the bill so we will not discuss them at all. And then we move on to the 26th Amendment of Representative Zvonimir Mršić, which refers to Article 47.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67819	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The proposed amendment does not comply with Article 33. Infringement law that prescribes the amount of fines for the perpetrator, which must be expressed in minimum and maximum amount, which is not in the case of this amendment by Mr Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67820	Thank you. Mr. Mršić doesn't have a vote on the amendment. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And the 27th amendment of Mršić's representative to Article 48?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67821	For the same reason, Mr. President, which is not in line with Article 33. A law which prescribes fines cannot accept this amendment, which is expressed as a percentage, not in the range possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67822	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. There's no Mr. Representative. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. And we have the 28th amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia relating to Article 51 and it is an integral part of the bill. That's what we've done with the amendments. So I give you the vote Final proposal of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of 86 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 1 against. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, we continue the session as we announced with the point - Final bill on preventing conflicts of interest, second reading, P.Z. No. 703. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government. You haven't received the reports, but during the session you'll get, they're multiplying. The amendments were submitted by the Independent Representatives' Club and the SDSS Club. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67824	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. I'd say this is an extremely important matter and the law we passed in 2003 has already suffered six amendments and additions. We literally changed it every year and no longer made sense, we had to approach the creation of a new whole text of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and, of course, under this new Law, we assessed the state we have today in this legislation and our assessments are that the system should be improved. The conflict of interest, regardless of what has been regulated since 2003, is in our system a relatively young institute and of course needs to be perfected. What are the basic aims of the new Law we propose and what are the fundamental objectives and improvements in relation to the system we have. We believe that this provides a better framework to prevent conflicts of interest because everyone acting in public responsibilities must always put public interest first and when there is a conflict between public, private, personal, public interest should always be overcome. This Law regulates that such situations do not occur and that in a way that the Law has one preventive function, it has a whole series of institutes that prevent such situations from coming into conflict with what is public interest and what is private. The key things we want to solve here is to spread the circle of those to which the law applies. So far, they were not civil servants, managing officials appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so directors of ministries working on extremely important and sensitive jobs and we believe that this law should regulate their position to ensure one impartiality, one behaviour that will always be in the service of public interest. Also, the presidents of the administration and members of the company management in the majority ownership of the Republic of Croatia are extremely sensitive places and we are expanding the reach of this Act to them. In addition, we all know that we have a current provision that speaks of shares, or a percentage of shares in stock companies that officials have 20%, and with that 20% we have a certain regulation to prevent an official who has business shares or shares in a society that 20% does not come into conflict in public and private. By this law we lower that limit from 20%, bring that censorship down to 0.5%. Of course, we also prescribe all of those further forms of how to act, when it can be done, when it cannot be done, that it is necessary to transfer management rights to third parties who manage business shares and who manage shares. The official must be free of such matters in order to be fully committed to his work and to make decisions in the public interest. In addition to this very important, a better system of property card control is also important because all those property reports that we do not have an effective system of verification of these property cards, and this Law introduces preliminary control, that is, when the application is received and when we evaluate whether it has all the necessary ingredients and whether it can be handled regularly when the analysis and comparisons of all data entered in the property card are carried out and primarily by verifying the available data kept by the state authorities in its records. So when it comes to movables, vehicles, records are in the Ministry of the Interior, and when it comes to real estate, we have land books that record property. The big news is, of course, that officials will give permission to just for the purpose of checking the data they listed in the property cards, give consent that it is possible to check bank accounts, because we all say in the property cards that we have savings or we do not have, that we have a certain amount of funds, and in order to verify that we must be willing to allow it to be checked. Big news and I think what improves our system is the depoliticalization and professionalization of the Committee itself to prevent conflicts of interest. So far we know how we've chosen the commission, but now we're predicting a model where the Commission would have five members, presidents and four members. They'd be professionals, we'd have a professional service, and in this way we'd ensure a continuous work because really checking all these cards that we've put into power and all the other competencies that he has, that's giving an opinion. Because if we find ourselves in a position where we do not understand how to act, we are obliged and we have the opportunity to ask for the opinion of the Commission that will then tell us how to protect the public interest and how to act in a particular situation. In addition to the above, we have defined clearer sanctions, we have defined that as sanctions we have a warning, we have short pay and we have a public announcement that someone has violated the provisions of the law. We also have these two measures, one already introduced in fact in 2010 with the last amendments in the 7th month, which is an invitation to the body appointed by the official if he has violated the provisions of this law, an invitation to resolve it. And the second measure where we are now calling, means not when there was a appointment, but when it was, that's the category of officials elected, the call personally to him so that he resigns if he has violated certain measures. The fundamental differences that are in relation to first reading, as I have already said, the law extends to both management presidents and members of company management, which are in majority state-owned, and then business entities within the meaning of the law have been extended to holders and members of other business entities established under the law, the limited circle of related persons, between the provisions on receiving gifts and the protocol gift and the provisions on the donation we have refined and systematised better. An official who does not submit the property card within the time limit has been prescribed that the commission will call on him to fulfil the obligation. In case he doesn't meet his obligation then, the commission gives him a sanction. The provisions concerning the receipt of compensation for other officials’ operations have also been amended in such a way that it is more clearly defined that the official may not receive compensation unless another law provides that certain forms for certain specific activities may. The provisions on the part relating to other tasks have also been amended, in a way that we have made it possible to carry out scientific, educational and other tasks. All candidates for the president and members of the committee, we put a lot of strict conditions there, would have passed before they came before the Croatian Parliament, would have passed a thorough security check. They would also submit property cards to the Election and Appointing Committee. Then, in accordance with the discussions on the first - reading committees, we corrected some of the nomotechnical provisions. The coefficients related to the commission's salaries are also in line with the committee's proposals, which we took as a pay criterion for our National Election Commission. What I want to say is that this law should be taken as a prevention, it offers a whole series of preventive mechanisms to avoid conflict of interest. So he does not have in his essence exclusive and primary repression and sanctions, he primarily aims to regulate behavior, to regulate situations to avoid this conflict of public and private. Because when we look at it, we see provisions when, if we do not submit the property card, the commission does not immediately impose sanctions, but calls, gives a deadline, where it is necessary to deliver the property card. If there are discrepancies between the data entered into the card and those data that have been verified proved to be different, there is also no immediate sanction, but the official is called to explain it, which is why it came. So the law is not repressive on that side, the law is strictly preventive, but the law guarantees that all those who act in public duties have to get ahead of the public, the duties we conduct are extremely significant and the public has the right to know the facts about which we will come into conflict in public and private tomorrow. Thank you very much. I suggest you support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67825	Thank you. We have one correction. No, I don't. Okay. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, President of the Committee and Vice-President Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67826	I would like to thank Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 67th session held on 10 February of this year, which had just finished, discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. The Committee discussed the final draft law on the basis of its competence as a home working body. The debate stressed that the adoption of this law is one of the criteria for closing Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights, and that the fundamental urgency of the law is to prevent conflict of interest, in particular through the Commission for Decision on conflict of interest. In this regard, it is expressed that the proposed majority for the selection of the president and members of the committee's presidency is not sufficient and that the two-thirds majority should be elected. The members of the committee also submitted a proposal on the need to supplement Article 33(1), point 4 and Article 37(5) in such a way as to enable the President, or members of the commission to choose a person who is not convicted of criminal offences and who is not subject to criminal proceedings, who is being initiated under official duty. The debate also held an opinion on the possible disagreement between the provisions of Article 46 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and in this respect a proposal was put forward to delete the said provision, however, it was pointed out that such a provision is already in the existing law governing the prevention of conflicts of interest. The debate also removed doubts as to Article 13(1), that is, the possible conflict of this law with specific laws governing the incompatibility of the duty. Thus, it was stressed in the debate that the final draft law proposed a general provision on the inability to carry out two duties and that special laws could prescribe exemptions from that rule. After the debate, the committee proposed by a majority of votes, 7 votes in favour, 2 votes against, one abstention, to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67827	Thank you. Do the rest of the committee's reporters want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67828	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, First, the height of this House, this morning's sentence, you won't be able to read all the portals for much longer. Gentlemen, he was president of the HDZ Parliament, he's also my president, and he'll always have my support until something serious is put on him, and calling someone because of the way he's running it is an incident.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67829	This is outside the agenda point, Article 214(4).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67830	The incident and the vis-a-vis of Parliament's dignity I think we should talk about. Second, why did I start out like that? I think the time has come to defend the vis-a-vis and this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest of this Parliament. And I can't understand that this is the law proposed by the people of the government who were in this House until yesterday, and some were vice presidents of this House. And I wonder all the time why the government does that? If such a law is a condition from Europe then let the minister or someone else tell us where something similar exists in European practice. I personally don't think he's running a law like this anywhere. This morning I heard in the halls that this was allegedly prescribed by Bulgarians and Romanians. And now it's clear if that's what the European institutions think about us is. Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, surely the Parliament did not steal, MPs did not steal the state. True, we may have made it possible by silence to the executive authority to steal from her, but we did not do it for sure. And now what's going on? I have the impression that this House, among other things, is turning this law into one last thing the people say to the public. A body that doesn't decide anything. I think we're long gone. I talk about it a lot about this pay phone. We have left power to the government, government advisers, NGOs, I don't know Europe, the media, the capital, we have left power to spin, and in this House we will not act like we don't demean anyone as people who will think about something, not just listen and act like machines and raise their hands, and neither will Croatia get a chance to rise. We will serve everyone only as a red cloth that precisely with this House who cannot threaten anyone to wave in front of the public, and those I mentioned above, I mean executive power, it doesn't matter whether it's local or state level, public institutions, etc., "doing" under quotes work. For starters, why there's no advisor, for example. Prime Minister as officials or tomorrow's future Prime Minister? Why is it mentioned here as a Supreme Court secretary, and there are no judges, say the Supreme Court or others? Why isn't there, like, these counselors? So they don't name anyone again. Because everyone's in an eclectic conflict of interest. Last time I said this, I don't know what I'm going to call it, it's a para-body above the Parliament, it's above the court. It's just something terrible, it decides whether or not to deprive someone of the term of office. Whether or not someone will deprive the term of office I don't know the president of the state, whether to run the one under the quotes "impeachment". This morning, the president warned me about the fact that no one can regain his term of office until a court of law, clearly. Of course I meant it there when I was talking about party financing, but is such a single body authorized to invite someone I don't know about resigning? Are we aware of what we're doing? I think, what I said last time, that one such body can't be both the court and the police and the BOOK and the UDBA and the Commission for the Origin of Assets and I don't know the Court of Parties and Inquisitions and the Red Commers and I don't know what else is together. And that quasi-body really does get one of those powers. Or perhaps through this body and such a conflict of interest law is tested by international entities in Croatia as far as it can be affected, as much as it can be squeezed. Parliament has always been and in that undemocratic time I dare say so it was not that I dared to say the embryo of our statehood when Croatia was both under the Cave and under Vienna and when parts were not known under Rome, and now as if we were simply losing such a form of self-reliance. And I don't think we should just agree to that. The second question is, who's supposed to be in charge of one of those bodies? It is said here that it should be independent experts, but we have experience and with this independent, so to speak, experts because one lady has finished, I will not name anyone, in my own time not long ago and in custody. I don't know, here we are reading at the Faculty of Economics this study sold for 35 million kuna. What exactly is here? I don't know. Who's supposed to be in charge of that, say, commission? Surely someone to be elected by the parliamentary majority two months before the election. Clearly, the elections can be made, but after that, like all other officials who have come to political will, let the gentlemen put their mandates at their disposal nicely. Well, maybe somebody's gonna be under the quotes "confirmed." Well, I don't suppose the people brought by this power of 2, 3 months to the de facto election will lead the state after the election, and a whole series of appointments in these last few months as if it were going in that direction, especially this commission or this para-body to decide on a conflict of interest. Finally, one party had the power of eight years, the state is where it is, the mandates available. There were honest people, honest, professional, all their honors, hats down, and other clear mandates at their disposal. The last time I ran here was when this law was polemic with Vice President Shakespeare when I said those who brought down Yugoslavia eventually stole the state. Of course, I don't think, I didn't mean the defenders either, I didn't mean those who were defending this country with blood, but I was thinking of some who were doing this political grammy that they weren't or were among us today. As regards conflict of interest, Croatia is exactly where it is. Someone's gonna say stolen or not, or, uh, not a bit. Now it's said and mentioned this checking bank accounts. Okay, I don't even mind, let's put aside this banking secret, it won't be hard for me, but who's going to check out the money that was taken abroad? There may be a billion-euro brother abroad for the past 7,8 years, who will order them to do so simply. Anyway, the State's Attorney's Office should be more agile to check the accounts of some people who aren't here today. In one word, this country, I don't know what times I'm going to say, has not been stolen by the MPs, the executive authority sure as hell that public services and judges were worse than these MPs sitting in these benches. The Parliament has in some way participated in something that may be even worse, because according to the dictatorship of the Ban Courts, ordered laws have been passed, which have generally affected some large systems, monopolies, so that I don't mention them here. Also, not everyone in politics is a thief, we just can't admit it. On the other hand, I am looking at all the benefits that the members of this body or this committee will have, they will certainly be in a far better position than any MP or vice president of the Parliament. It doesn't matter, car office, card, whether they have water or they pay for juices like they pay at the club, whether they have chalk, flomaster, secretary, driver, it doesn't matter, but I'm also asking that we don't just do it and let's not get loose like that. Second, what I would also like to say is Article 19, 20. etc., the clear problem of this resolution of individual officials who will not be able to be employed anywhere for a year, I respect such a proposal but as it is possible for directors, directors of public systems, to mention them in Liburnia to be listed by a thousand, from T-HT further, immediately after the conversion, privatisation, and far more privileged than anyone who sits in this Parliament assumes new functions for the new owner or for the new buyer. We see here that most of the 30th election, these members of the Committee, whether they, this is a fundamental question, which will come into this position to decide on us the next day, will have one criterion for the opposition, when the next day takes over power, and the next day another criterion for those who have confirmed them or chosen them. But the situation in the constitutional court today may be repeated even though I am not running away from the truth that I voted for some judges, and it is always when it comes to constitutional judges, it was a political inter-party trade. This is about experience in the fight against corruption, the minister is talking about a complete check on the candidate or that security check, which is absolutely fine, but we'll see what it looks like, and I'll say once again that I am against professionalising this work of wages, etc. Let the paraagents be abolished and then hired through such a form. Secondly, I will once again say they are dragonish, I don't think one commission can run Article 46 of the procedure, for a resolution, from a public office, whether it's a representative, whether it's a minister, whether it's a President of the Parliament, whether it's a president of the state or something else. These 0.5% stakes are also something that you should be looking at, not 0.5 per cent, but a stake in a company, but it should also be reconsidered. One word gives me the impression that this Law should at least go to third reading and that the Proposer should be incomparable to autonomy, and not if it's true I don't know how to prescribe solutions that are in Bulgaria and in one Romania in force because it will ultimately not bring any of us any good. And I'm surprised to say that people in the government who were MPs, vice presidents of this house, are simply proposing this law to prevent conflicts of interest. I'm not saying it so much for my own sake, I'm saying it for this institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67831	Thank you. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Ms. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67832	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the second time in a week we've been discussing this law, and it seems to me that we are all deeply aware that this law is not what we would rather accept that in some other circumstances we can discuss it, but obviously it is a law that is one of the conditions for closing the chapters that we need for perhaps the last step that is one of the conditions for entering the European family. Perhaps because we are aware of this, we will shed some of the things that, in other circumstances, would be difficult to accept, although the aim of this Law is to create a common and particularly political culture in the conduct of our duties, then I sincerely hope that, over a few years of the functioning of this Law, such a law will be unnecessary. I'd like that to happen as soon as possible. When we talk about political culture, unfortunately it is often on the lowest branches, it is enough for viewers to look at one largely morning session of the Parliament, when the cameras are involved, in the afternoon when they are gone we are already acting a little differently. The wind in the back of a law like this, which I really don't think is good, but that it is necessary to accept, is certainly the perception of both politicians and duties. We are considered the most suspicious, often most cloudy, certainly not all of us, but the creation of one such environment and one such climate is never good, because if trust in the institutions disappears, then it is known that the next order are the non-institutional methods of action that certainly no one in Croatia, or no one well-intentioned wants. After a longer analysis of this law of reading both first and second, I will warn of three key shortcomings and one condition for voting and adoption of such a law. My colleague Cain spoke of countries with similar laws. I admit I have similar information, and normally no one is comfortable being in a circle with those countries that we think we're better than, but maybe this is a chance to prove it. Reading the powers of this body, bodies that are professionalized that will have great conditions for working though and obligation, the question arises whether this parliamentary body really does not become a parallel to the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK? The task of such a body will be very harsh and say to embarrass that politician who violates the law, but it seems to me that these powers go a step further. Check the bank accounts. No one's against it. But is the constituency body the one who has the right to check your accounts? Isn't that someone else's job? After the explanation I received, I dare to make this story a little more complicated. For example. to have one of you write that there are 100,000 marks, euros, dollars, Swiss what, then that body will request a check in the bank and get the accuracy or inaccuracy of that information. But if the government official doesn't point out whether you're going to have a chance to find out that that money is hiding somewhere else, or if that's the only way we're really playing with those who have at least some of it themselves. So I really think that part should be worked out a little bit more seriously, and according to this, the amendment that my colleague Horvat and I have submitted is, on behalf of his club, where we keep this part to be worked out and so that once again the main word is represented by representatives. The other thing, it might be against me, but I'm not going to put too much weight on it, it's worth 500 kn. 500 kn is not small, nor is it small, but receiving a gift of 500 kn, one university professor recently joked and said I must not give you his three books, I can now give you two and in time another. Isn't that what we actually sent people to do to those who have little to keep those who have much or much to hide quiet? I just want to warn you about that part. Of course, I was informed of the number of receipts for officials in some other countries. I understand that you can answer me that we're somewhere in line with others, maybe there's a Canadian with a thousand Canadian dollars that's more real. If we compare ourselves to Slovenia and Serbia, then you will surely be able to convince me that this proposal is good, but we are still here to discuss whether it is worth 500 kn of the number you need to stay on or just to keep you busy hunting small ones to run large by then. I want to warn you of these resolutions, the call for resolutions. We'll easily resolve someone who's appointed, at least hope to resolve it easily. But what about those chosen? And the question would be if I didn't have a few very interesting elected in large cities, perhaps unnecessary. However, what would you say to someone who normally works to earn their own money, it would be okay if you didn't know what information more, what would you do to him? You will warn him, you will publish it in the press, which you will appeal to his sensitivity. So, if you answer the call, change it well, if you don't do anything. So we will support if we pass an amendment like this with a lot of holes that are here. I hope that some of them will be fixed by now, and some of them I hope are in front of us. And not quite tightly related to the articles you have, which we all have together. I'd like to say something about entrepreneurs among the officials. I am really long in the Croatian Parliament and I remember the first coalition government in 2000 when all of them and I were very pleased that people have money that entrepreneurs enter because it was worth logic, people know how to make money so they will know how to take care of state money. What happened today when the same people enter the government to turn the saw upside down? Maybe you should see if it's an atmosphere, if it's a climate or if it's a particular name and name. So I ask you once again to consider the proposals and remarks and then, of course, the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67833	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67834	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I listened very carefully to the previous speaker Mrs. Gjurdja Adlesic, who cited a whole series of reasons why she would not vote for this law and then, on several occasions, said she would still support it. She said the law had a whole series of holes, and she said the whole "down the hole" quote, and we actually see that the law itself is one big hole. I ask you colleagues from HDZ first of all, because your government has proposed this law to reconsider what has come before us. This is still a state with all its shortcomings. Let us not allow this law to be a moral compass for those who have strayed into politics both professionally and morally, and I believe that most of you are not amongst us, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know where to start. We have submitted two amendments and I will say something about these amendments, and especially about the majority we propose to adopt the composition of the commission. But to get rid of all the dilemmas and break all the mysteries, let's see, since this is supposed to be a law that's important for the conclusion of chapter 23, let's see what the contents of the benchmark that the commission gave, so let's see if this is exactly the kind of law that is necessary for the European Commission's measurement, or someone might have played our part. So, in modern countries, in democratic states in Western and liberal democracies, these bodies are what is usually called in English a pear reeview or pear control, therefore control among equals, surveillance amongst the equal in which usually the opposition in Parliament has a leading position in such a committee as you know the case with us, so it was abolished a while ago. But let's hear what the European Commission has to say about closing chapter 23. Croatia should establish records of the results in implementation, track record, strengthened prevention measures in the fight against corruption and conflict of interest, and in particular the third criterion, quote: "to ensure effective legislation and systems that protect and sanction conflicts of interest at all levels of public administration and to monitor and verify statements of property (equity cards) of public officials and judges, including deterring sanctions for non-compliance with the rules, as well as to establish an effective system that will enable and encourage the reporting of corruption cases and poor governance in public institutions". That's what the Commission, or Brussels, asked us to do. The result of that request is this law. This is therefore a radical deviation from what we had and a solution which, in our deep conviction, keeps Croatia safe and makes the smaller state and which is unnecessary. So this is security. The law is passed by those who recognise themselves to be dishonest, giving authority to the body of experts who will be elected by the political majority in Parliament, most of all MPs in Parliament. This, in the explanation of the applicant, is referred to as the crown argument of depolitisation of the body. Do you really believe that? So the political majority in the representative body, the political majority which is the support and support of the government will, for the most part, choose for five years the body of experts who will check the property and be the moral compass and ethical police for all state officials, from the President of the Republic to the deputy municipal chief or chief. So what are we really up to? Is it really necessary for all those sins and failures in the last 7 or 10 years to repent and repent in this way? I'm not sure that Brussels, to call it so coloquial, asked Zagreb and Croatia to do this. I'm asking you to think about it one more time. In this way, we become smaller states and weaker states, but I'm not sure anyone's putting pressure on us to pass a law like this. My colleague Cain said something more or less important, and I can almost agree with anything. From bank applications, from the right that at any time, therefore not during the process, but at every moment someone checks your bank accounts in Croatia and outside Croatia. This other is, of course, inconclusive, that's clear to you. That would be the laughing stock of every serious institution outside because it requires a court order. To create a paralegal body. And the big question is whether we're going that way against the Constitution, whether we're disrupting the balance of division and the trio of power. We form another body, but it is not alone, there are some administrative bodies that are comparable, which are in this process both cadium and the prosecutor and all living and gathering evidence and making a decision in the first degree. However, I admit there is a possibility of changing that decision in the Administrative Court. But what about the Croatian police, what about the attorney's office, what about the Croatian courts. In light of this law, it clearly states that I am a conflict of interest or doubt of conflict of interest does not constitute a criminal offence, but then we establish a system that has elements of the Spanish Inquisition. According to who, towards you? Let's go from ourselves now, but don't hang on to yourself. Parliamentarians, opposition MPs, there is a space for conflict of interest in the smallest. Let's move on, one detail that no one has mentioned yet, and that's going through this law, I'm not going to quote the article now. The ban on two public functions at the same time, you noticed. What does that mean, that someone can't be mayor and a parliamentary representative? To the side that should be regulated by some other law, but is this a conflict of interest? Here, Mrs. Shuica, let's see if it's a conflict of interest. So this is about two public interests, a potential competition of two public interests, but certainly not a conflict of private and public interest as defined in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, it's nonsense and I don't know who's responsible for it. I want to go to the SDP Club and the mayors. Yes, not to be, in order to extract corruption but to fight for the interests of their communities that they cannot achieve in view of the miserable relationship between regional and state finances. I want to. This law forbids it, are you aware of it? Are you aware here at HDZ that you're mayors and you're in SDP, at a small door, why. Is it perhaps the interest of someone from the HDZ government, our interest is not. As long as we don't categorically ban it, and the law has never banned it from a conflict of interest, it's two public interests. Please and get it out, and Brussels didn't ask for it either. So, this law is irreparably bad and humiliating, but if we could agree in the interest of concluding Chapter 23 that this law is also passed on to our shame, shame on me by this law, we can't adopt it and we can't choose a commission half a year before the election if the selection of members of that omnipotent body is not consensual, which means the 2/3 majority, not the ordinary majority, or qualified majority of which the government must have, 77 MPs. Because we choose people who, by my deep conviction, go through the Constitution. But if we agree to choose the 2/3 majority again because of the speed of the proceedings, we enter the zone at the edge of the Constitution. Therefore, this law provides that members of the committee from the ranks of prominent and more moral people of all of us are elected by most of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament, so qualified majority. That's the law. And now I'm going to read you what the Croatian Constitution says when it comes to the majority of which Parliament is making decisions. So this is an organic law as well as a criminal law, it is passed by qualified majority, but the law goes a long way further. He determines how other decisions will be made in this House. You see that law must not, it is left to the Constitution. The constitution says, if the Constitution is not otherwise defined, the Croatian Parliament makes decisions, mostly if most MPs are present at the session, it is a simple majority. Any deviation from the ordinary majority must be precisely determined by the Croatian Constitution, this one is not in the Constitution. The amendment of this law before the Constitution is adapted is unconstitutional. You remember when we changed the Croatian Constitution half a year ago, and then in one place we determined that the future budget should be passed by the majority of the votes of all MPs. If it were possible, we would have arranged it by law, no, it had to go to the Constitution. So this must go into the Constitution and even if we agree on a two-thirds majority we are breaking the Constitution again because we will be in space outside the Constitution until we change the Constitution in this way, this is not... this is the state. So, the law is organic, we can adopt it by qualified majority, but we can't use models that violate the Constitution. And another note, today we're looking at it all together, these are all elements of the Croatian state. Today, we have seen this little research by the DIP Act, the State Election Commission of 2007, which is also anti-constitutional, because the Constitution does not foresee this, says that the majority of the votes of all MPs are elected by the members of the Committee for the term of office of 8 years. This one's not in the Constitution either, and that's where we broke the Constitution. I hope that's it, that there are no more examples. So, we protect our institutions, we protect our country, we cannot agree that such a commission that turns into a very powerful pair of judicial bodies is elected as a condition for entering the European Union several months before the elections and is chosen by the majority of one party, or one coalition and one government, because this again introduces uncertainty and disorder, as bad as this law is, and it is bad. Because some new majority, whatever it is, are going to be that I'm not going into pre-election rhetoric right now because I won't. To be forced to make adjustments and change this. This was supposed to be done a long time ago, months earlier, not to say it was seven years ago. And I'm going back to the beginning, the peer review, the surveillance of ourselves. The opposition must be louder and must have a leading position in such a body. The position has the majority as in the Committees. Who's gonna be convincing, who's gonna be louder, who's gonna be more arrogant if you want, whose side's gonna be the public, the independent media. In the assessment of whether anyone is in conflict of interest or not. It's democracy. Democracy is not to form beside existing bodies a pair of bodies that you give huge powers to and into which you choose experts. And the best proof that it's a couple judicial body is a requirement for the head of that body to be a lawyer, which is my profession, with a completed judicial exam. And why is that? Please, nice. Why don't you be an architect, or a philosopher, or a doctor, for example, it's a conflict of interest. The law says conflict of interest is not a crime, it's moral, it's a public service, it's politics. Fellow Members and colleagues of the lowest common titles of our agreement, the lowest, can be agreed that this commission is elected by a two-thirds majority in this House. And then we do a bad thing and then we do something that makes less and less people support the European Union and it's a task for all of us in the communication strategy, not today. But underneath that we can't go. It will be a sign of your goodwill, a sign that of that commission whatever it is, you do not want to make your party body. The sign that we may be able to do something better tomorrow and fix this bad law, the sign that by agreement we will conclude Chapter 23 and that conflict of interest will be more seriously considered in Croatia, that things that have been happening for the past 10 years will no longer be possible and that we will be a different and better country, but that we will be a state. With laws like this, we're less of a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67835	Thank you. We also have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Ms. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67836	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to correct the wrong quote of Mr. Milanovic, who has actually agreed with me on some parts of the Law that we do not hold to be good. However, it is not true that I have said that I will support the Law even though it is bad, but that I will support the Law if an amendment that makes this Law less bad or reduces the powers of a couple of bodies you spoke of is adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67837	Thank you. Let's move forward with the debate, on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67838	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning of my presentation, I will say that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal for a law on preventing conflicts of interest. By its definition of conflict of interest there is a definition written in the Law, when the private interests of officials are contrary to public interest. In particular, when the private interest of the official affects his impartiality in the exercise of public duty. Where the private interest of the official affects or may affect his impartiality in the exercise of public duty. Therefore, from the very definition of conflict of interest it is evident that the matter is concerned, it is not easy to regulate it by law because the possibilities of conflict between private and public are so great that in certain segments it is impossible to do so. In fact, regardless of all the solutions, therefore, related to conflict of interest are translated into legal text, by their nature the overall definition of conflict of interest represents, in a broader sense, the code of office ethics. A prescribed, accepted manner of conduct of public duties, with the aim of eliminating the abuse of positions in the conduct of public duties. And maybe that's why I'm convinced that's exactly why there's no single model. There is no state, whether or not a member of the European Union, which has a unique model or a unique solution when it comes to conflict of interest. However, due to the importance of the Institute in the field of prevention of any corrupt behaviour of civil servants, it is necessary to make a further effort to regulate the matter in question in the best possible way, and to bring fully close to the criteria and criteria of the Member States of the European Union in normative standards. In this regard, it should be pointed out that for the first time or for the first time, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest was adopted in 2003 and it has already been mentioned and said that almost every year since 2003, it has been amended, and it has been changed precisely for the reasons why the relevant answers to the questions asked, i.e. the legal answers to certain solutions or certain situations that we could call that we have not been mildly satisfied in terms of the prescribed institutions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, even to their application in practice. And that's why, and I think it's important to point out that the new law, so the new law that is now in front of us in the second reading, is conceived in a way that wants to correct these perceived shortcomings on the one hand. On the other hand, it offers us a really new model, a new elaborate model of institutional solution to the prevention of conflicts of interest. In this sense, the absolutely legal proposal should be accepted and understood as one that will improve the concept of understanding and preventing conflicts of interest, and ultimately act rightly to combat corruption in the Republic of Croatia. I think that's what the honourable minister said in his opening statement, and I think it should be further stressed, but always either primarily or mainly in a preventive sense, not repressive, but preventive. This law should, within the framework of the judiciary, be the central law which will, in fact, in its preventive action, prevent any form of corruptive behaviour or, as corruption says, will unfortunately always be. But then the possibilities of consciousness, so for the least possible measure. And it is precisely the perceived shortcomings in the application of existing legal provisions that need to highlight the three fundamental shortcomings that are indeed addressed by this legislative proposal, i.e. by law are resolved in a more precise, better, more acceptable way. What kind of situation is this? Surely the first of these situations is the lack of effective verification of the report on the property status of officials. This was a fundamental disadvantage in the sense of the application of the law itself, members of the commission, here are the people who participated in the debates, in the work on round tables, who had the opportunity to listen to these remarks from the people who were actually coming to this problem by counseling what to do in order to improve these institutes mainly and in general asked questions and, gentlemen, and what and how the commission which was in office checks the property cards, the status of the property of the officials when it was reported. Is there an instrumentation, any instrument to check it out? Furthermore, another important institute that is being dealt with in another way even in terms of the model, because it is indeed another model, another approach to resolving this problem is strengthening the independence of the Commission on conflict-making of interest and removing political influence on the composition and work of the commission. So, depoliticization no matter what you think. This concept really depolitises only the commission not only in the way that politicians are no longer directly in the commission but what is the way these people are chosen, the whole procedure goes to this and the legal solution is such that as far as possible by legal solution, so the Commission itself depolitises. And it was done in terms of the proposal. And the third thing is either a third institute that should be emphasized, and the institute, which is prescribed by this law because there are perceived deficiencies, which is an insufficiently effective sanctioning system. Now, the possibility of verifying the data from the official's property report, so check it out, we're talking about verifying the credibility of the property card. It's one of the basic papers of the proposed law. Therefore, the verification of data from the submitted status of the official. It can therefore be a previous or administrative check, and a regular check. In order to carry out checks, the Commission may request, therefore, that future commission not only of the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia but also of international associations and foreign organisations. It is to the effect that the Commission has both the powers and the opportunities to request all data to ensure that the property card submitted is indeed credible and that it reflects the real situation in terms of ownership of the property of the government official. This is the only solution in terms that is possible in terms of the very verification and credibility of the property card. If we are not hypocritical, or if we want to edit this segment in a way that the property card maintains the right state of affairs, then it must be on, not just some but quite certain to prescribe the way in which these data can or should be verified. Secondly, the proposed legislative solutions strengthen not only the independence of the commission but also removes the possibility of political influence on the work of the commission. The Commission is therefore defined as an independent state body which also has enviable financial resources. The members of the commission are elected by the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a list of candidates drawn up by the Committee for Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. The term of office of members is five years. Among the necessary conditions of the president and members of the commission, it is prescribed not only that someone is not a member of the political party. I think it is necessary to stress this already that he has not been a member of the political party for the past five years since running for president and member of the commission. And finally, with regard to sanctions for violation or violation of this law, the circle of sanctions is increasing and that is how we can actually systematize them right now. Therefore, the suspension of part of the net salary, the public publication of decisions on the cost of a person, the proposal for, remains of course sanctions and in this final proposal, although otherwise systematicd in the law in which articles are now defined. Therefore, a proposal to relieve the appointed official of public duty and to call the elected official to resign for public duty. Of course, in terms of the application of the law, so all these years it has been seen in terms of its application, therefore, a lot and other shortcomings. It may be necessary to highlight those who have conditioned the extension of the scope of the law, i.e. the circle of civil servants to whom the law applies, the inclusion of all state officials exposed to high corruption risks, and the lack of restrictions on officials after the termination of office, or the possibility of officials to behave in addition to the duties they have been elected under other public duty. It's final. No matter what the majority, whether a qualified, ordinary two-thirds majority will be elected by members or future members of this committee, I think that no law is perfect, so neither is this one, but the models they had so far have agreed that they should be changed. This is one of the models offered, which is also not perfect, but gives answers to all those questions that have proved controversial in the sense of applying the current provisions of the law and their amendments and additions. With this in mind, and of course the representative of the motionors, i.e. the minister and the government, will be manifested about the proposed amendments, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives Club supports the proposal for a Law to prevent conflicts of interest. Of course, it should also be emphasized on behalf of the club and as one of the essential points of conclusion of the negotiations in chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental human rights, one of the special stones, or the last stones in that mosaic, which should be laid down in order to bring this story to an end, the European story is successfully brought to an end. In that sense, the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives Club supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67839	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67840	Dear counterpart Tomljanovic says the law offers an institutional model to prevent conflicts of interest. On the contrary. Proposing and adopting this law is an example of conflict of interest. So between two interests, public interest, politics being a fair, honest business and politicians doing the job in a fair way. And the special, personal, particular interest of HDZ officials to choose, through this law, one body by adopting and applying it, according to their own exclusive party's will in this House, so such a body that will not control them in the conflict of interest prevails over this other interest of the HDZ officials. That's why this law is dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67841	On behalf of the HNS club, HSU's representative, Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67842	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest brings one change which we at the HNS and HSU Club consider to be positive, which is to professionalise control, i.e. prevention and warning of officials of possible conflict of interest. We have so far had it resolved so that different committees formed in the Parliament, where the parliamentary majority had a majority, meant that all those who were part of the parliamentary majority were voted not in conflict of interest, and all who were part of the opposition voted to be in conflict of interest. It was absolutely puzzling, and it was confirmed that there was no conflict of interest and that, in the meantime, some of the cases in which the committees decided that there was no conflict of interest, the State's Attorney General sent a response in which he unequivocally said that there was no basis for such a position. It is obvious, therefore, that where the parliamentary majority still votes, regardless of the facts of different decisions, depending on party membership, the instrument to fight conflicts of interest is not such a commission. These are instruments for political persecution and each other's struggles. So as far as we're concerned, we believe that the formation of a single administrative body, which will be professionally, or should be professionally dealt with, gives a positive shift, and obviously that's what the government recognized and proposed a law that goes in that direction. The purpose of this law should be and the purpose of any such law should be prevention in the first order. So preventing conflicts of interest, not trying to meet someone behind the plan and catch him and then publicly embarrass him, but that people who decide to deal with public affairs in one part of their lives have the opportunity to check whether or not they are in such a situation, and to prevent them from being in such a situation. It is very important here, in our opinion, to underline that conflict of interest is not taking bribes and corruption. Taking bribes and corruption are criminal acts, and it is absolutely unacceptable not to let God take away and divulge the jurisdiction of the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary over cases of bribery and corruption. This still needs to be pursued by the State's Attorney's Office and should be prosecuted by official duty. This is about something that is not a crime, but that is unacceptable behavior when a man is in public service, which is a conflict of interest. Therefore, this commission and all of these provisions provided for in this bill must concentrate solely on this, on prevention, and if they have failed to prevent the punishment, i.e. public screening, because these are the penalties provided for here, the public screening of people who do not give up the situation of conflict of interest in which they have been found and who have been previously warned. So let's not divulge the powers of the State's Attorney's office and the judiciary over bribery and corruption, bribery and corruption is not a conflict of interest, it's a thieving common so-called. Here, several times in various discussions, it has been mentioned that the adoption of this law is a prerequisite or a criterion for closing the chapters – the judiciary and fundamental rights in our negotiations with the EU. Let me underline here, there is nothing that is against our interests and against common sense that we must do to become members of the EU. There's nothing. And depending on our ability, our readiness for this membership and our wit, all that will happen from that is only an advantage and only gives us a better chance to arrange our own country and, on the other hand, a greater economic chance. So there is no bad law that we would have to pass in order to become members of the EU. It doesn't exist. Not even this one. A colleague, Milanovic, when discussing on behalf of the SDP club, read the correct criterion. So, what the EU, in this case, is still at this level, requires that, as a prerequisite, Chapter 23 be closed. He doesn't say he's looking for a law like this. Nowhere does it say how such a body or commission is chosen. It doesn't say exactly what the criteria are. It only writes what he read, so I will not repeat it now because exactly as it was read here, but I will read further the recommendation of the mission report of independent experts to assess Croatia's progress in the fight against corruption and organised crime. This is one European Commission mission that was in Zagreb last summer. And among other things, the following recommendation is made on this subject. He says, quotes: "It is recommended that Croatian authorities consider the possibility of establishing an administrative body that would be in charge of systematic supervision of property cards, conflict of interest and prohibited activities. Such a body would eliminate policy from decisions that are mostly of a professional, technical nature." So, both a formal criterion or a prerequisite for closing down and a commission recommendation says form an administrative professional, one body that will make sure that people in the first place do not fall into a situation of conflict of interest, and then that if they insist on staying in that situation for a warning that they can be made public. Here it is, or it can be sanctioned as they say. So there's nothing about what's in this law, and that's how that body is going to be chosen or named or established and how it's going to work. In the opinion of us at the HNS-HSU club, there are more problems with this law. So there are many shortcomings in this law that can be corrected by a new version, perhaps some major amendments. We've given some amendments along with the SDP and IDS, and some we've given extra on our own. But these difficulties or shortcomings can be discussed. However, there is one point that significantly changes the nature of this law. This law is typically a consensual law. It's a law that regulates the foundations of government and the behaviour of officials, so people who do public work. There's no dispute about that attitude between us. So, I guess every person who asks here would say that they agree that people who deal in public affairs can't be in conflict of interest. If so, it is a typical law that must be passed, but more importantly, then it is a typical decision on the composition of a commission that must be made by a two-thirds majority. Why? The two-thirds majority assume that key factors in the government and the opposition participate in the decision, so they have a crucial impact on the decision on who will be members of such a committee. I warn you that this commission has the authority to go to the president of the country at home to see what kind of picture he has on the wall, to dig into his account, to have the jurisdiction of the Presidents of the Constitutional Court to go home to watch what he has of mobile property and has the opportunity to look into the bank account of the Presidents of the Constitutional Court and, of course, to all of you. And if, of course, you wrote what you have. If you wrote that you didn't have anything, then it won't come to you. So, from that conclusion, you're doing it on your own. They have the possibility of not having a court order to dig into your accounts as well as the president of the government, as well as all ministers, as well as all judges of the Constitutional Court. Now, such a commission, if passed, is something that is certainly worth talking about further, but such a commission if elected by the parliamentary majority and by the parliamentary majority of all MPs because it is understood in itself that the parliamentary majority of all MPs have a government because if they did not, they would not be a government. So, if elected by the government mostly in Parliament, then this law and this commission is transformed from an institution to prevent conflicts of interest into an institution to prosecute political opponents and political competition. Because if it isn't, then I don't see any obstacles to the two-thirds majority. So, if one party, any party, in any case, since the term of office is 5 years, then whoever has the parliamentary majority chooses a commission that will be competent even after the term of office of the one who chose him. So he chooses the commission for the next parliamentary majority. So if this commission is not to be used to persecute political rivals, then there is no reason not to choose the two-thirds majority. And if chosen, not to prevent conflict of interest, but to push the so-called. ours to persecute the so-called. Yours, and persecuting them by no means judicial but only public diphthmation, so let's say by public shame or public display of certain things that can be found to be true or not, as is happening here in the Parliament. and there are also different things that are proven not to be true later and formally legally. So, with all the corrections, additions, corrections that this law should experience that I think can be discussed, perhaps even an amendment can be fixed, the fact 2/3 of the MPs who choose this commission or parliamentary majority is the difference between a law that better or worse cares about preventing conflicts of interest if it is chosen by 2/3 and the Law on the persecution of political competition, if it is chosen by the government majority. So since we have given this amendment depending on what law we are going to pass, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest with 2/3 of the elected commission or the Law on the persecution of political opponents with the government's majority will also be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67843	Thank you. I'm announcing that at 16.20, it's time to sign up for 10 minutes to discuss it. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67844	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague who regularly informs not only the Parliament but also the public. Namely, Mr. Radimir Cacic's conflict of interest has been established if we are talking about a conflict of interest. Therefore, a conflict of interest has been established which can be documented, and what the colleague is calling for is the finding of the State Audit. And he's worth it once, the second time he's not worth it. For some MPs, finding the State Audit doesn't mean anything, and primitiveism is not a virtue, but a flaw as far as I know. So take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67845	Correction Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67846	Thank you very much. What MP Pusic said is incorrectly that the body is pretending to pursue political rivals unless it is elected by a two-thirds majority. That's incorrect. First of all, it's incorrect and she came herself into a split that's consensual law. If it's a consensual law I'll remind you yesterday why your colleagues then fled the assembly when such a law was to be placed on the agenda. And I don't see what fear of the commission so much, if all the property cards are correct, they're all true, so there's no fear at all of what the commission is going to check. If there's something that wants to be clouded, then it's really a big fear of that commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67847	Let's move on. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67848	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Service of public interest is a fundamental task of public institutions and therefore we believe that such a legal solution will contribute to the greater transparency of their work, and thus strengthen citizens' confidence in those institutions that exist for the sake of citizens and not for themselves. It is evident that behind these laws as well as a number of others is a firm commitment and political will to recognize at first the corrupt risks associated with the conduct of public duties and to be reduced to the least possible measure, as well as the incentive for someone to benefit from the acquired position either for their own account or for the expense of someone else. In particular, the timely detection of a possible conflict between private interests and the duties of public administration officials and their temporary resolution can greatly reduce the risk of corruption or abuse of positions. It is therefore of paramount importance to regulate a system which will at first recognise the potential risk as well as to enable the resolution of a potential conflict of interest while strengthening the integrity of the officials and setting up an effective control mechanism, and to prescribe concrete sanctions, and we are confident that this legislative proposal will make this possible to a large extent. First of all, there is a need to highlight the depoliticalisation of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest and to strengthen its independent position, which is evident about how its members should be elected as non-partisan. The final proposal states among the conditions for their choice that the persons against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted cannot be selected and the offences which constitute an obstacle are defined. In this legislative proposal, the Commission is defined as an independent state body which has specific financial resources which strengthens its independence. The bill we are discussing today, with the already mentioned empowerment of the independent position of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, will advance the existing system and more precise arrangements a number of necessary instruments by introducing a system of supervision and verification of public officials' property cards as well as strict sanctions for non-compliance with the rules. In this regard, we believe that it is good that the final proposal is complemented in cases where the official does not fulfil the obligation to submit a report on the property situation in such a way that the commission invites the official to submit a report within the time limit set for him, and that, after that, in the event of failure to comply with that time limit, the official is given and the necessary sanctions are imposed. During the implementation of the law so far, it has been noted that it is necessary to regulate certain areas more precisely, such as the law should also cover state officials, as well as the presidents of members of state-owned company administrations, and a special system of verification of the property of officials and the sanctioning system, which is largely done by this proposal. In this respect, it is good that an objection has been accepted concerning the presidents and members of the companies in the majority state ownership, which are covered by the final draft law. We also believe that it is good that the concept of a business entity in the final proposal is extended to holders and members of other business entities established under the law covering a wider circle of entities. In particular, it is also necessary to identify possible situations of conflict of interest in which the official may be located after the conduct of the public office has ceased and are listed and determined by the restrictions. Thus, officials whose duties have ceased, one year after the termination of their duties, must not accept the appointment, election or contract which enters into a working relationship with a legal person who, during the term of office of the official, was in a business relationship or when, at the time of appointment, the election or conclusion of a contract under the circumstances, is intended to enter into a business relationship with the body in which he would act. In this respect, we also welcome the improvement of the sanctions system that the Commission may impose in the event of non-compliance with the law, which are more clearly defined in the final proposal and in a way that is introduced or retained, and which are precisely the ones for which infringements of the law are possible to impose an individual penalty which also provides for the suspension of the payment of part of the net monthly salary and the public publication of the commission's decision on the cost of a person. This government has tried unequivocally and resolutely to curb corruption at all levels and has opted for a zero-tolerance rate on corruption. This legislative proposal will further strengthen the mechanisms to combat corruption and increase transparency and thus improve the system of control of public officials. For all of this, we believe that this law will contribute not only to a more effective system of public officials' supervision, but also to the repression of corruption, but also to the greater confidence of citizens in public institutions and we at the HSS Club think that it should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67849	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67850	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The final draft law on preventing conflicts of interest that should actually be a dam or how someone here said prevention of conflicts of interest. Sanctions like in other spheres of life have never prevented bad events but prevention. It's always better to prevent it than treat it, so that's what happens now. It is true that bribery, corruption and other forms of crime that occur in our society and which is recognized by Europe, but also by citizens do not actually fall into their own conflict of interest but fall under the repressive apparatus of DORH, USKOK, judiciary or police. Or the police first, depending on how it goes. It is interesting that this time, regardless of the surveys conducted in the public or in the Croatian citizenship, whether there is a desire for citizens to enter Europe, this time I would say European directives match the opinion of the people. When you ask people if they're going to go to elections, a lot of them say and what I'm going to vote for, they're all the same. Such is the perception of our citizens in large numbers that I would not generalise, the perception of our citizenship about politicians, about us, about those who exercise authority, who are in representative bodies. We are simply in these very acts which Mrs Pusic also spoke of, so bribery, corruption, conflict of interest, etc. led citizens to a lack of confidence in the full political establishment, but clearly there is no Europe either. And that's where they just match up in those forces, and it seems to me that this bill has come up a little bit. In 1059, a thousand and many years ago, a pope named Grgur VII sought at a lateran council to give up his possessions. Interesting. It wasn't and it wasn't then informative, the media and other things like today so it could be known and found out what was going on, but man noticed that something was going on back then in the church and I would say and then he said, in some way, that I wasn't insulting anyone and I didn't want to get into these spheres, then he was taking similar measures like this Final Bill on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, although it was then called "rejection of possession." This is not a dispensation of property today, but when it is assumed that these measures that others have spoken of and I will not repeat them, I would really say a little too far-reaching and this five-member commission, which is elected according to this proposal by a half-way, only by a half-way majority, I would not want to prejudge and no one is offended again, so as not to become a five-member gang like in that Chinese political history 20, 30 years ago. ... Peter's member, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I think that these proposals here today are addressed with several addresses on the 2/3 choice of this five-member or five-member, I don't know exactly how to put it, the commissions are very good proposals that would prove themselves to be a position that thinks about what should be both common and common interest. So, there's a commission that we'll trust, so I guess that's why it's called a commission. For bribery, corruption and crime, there are really other tools that someone likes to say or an instrument whatever we want, and they can sanction it. So we have, we have already introduced the OIBs and the unique home numbers of citizens, ID cards and a series of other documents that can prove the flow of money, the origin of property, the seat of property and everything else is just a matter of whether tax and all the other inspections and supervisions will do their job. In an orderly state, they would observe it very well, so it would not happen as it is now that in the savings books of relatives, relatives, etc. find amounts that certainly could not have been earned in their twenty-two years of life, nor those who have 65 or 70 years of life because their salaries and their incomes cannot possibly be proved to be so much money on their accounts or so valuable property that they own. I'd say it's what we've allowed ourselves to, to pass us by, without pointing fingers, not to point at it either to say a certain political fear that I won't tell us to swallow the night even though there are any phenomena or to be met somewhere in the dark with a baseball bat or some other beating or to lose your job, your job and your existence which is even worse than that. So, in such a situation and atmosphere, we allowed this to happen and what happened and what happened this morning and what we had today morning, here is a bile debate for both the Croatian people and the Croatian citizenship, and how much really this House is something that it shouldn't be, but it should be a truly honorable Croatian Parliament, an honorable House. But the guilt is somewhere else. Maybe it's her fault in Salzburg, too. In order to be credible, then, it is true that it is necessary to establish the exact and strict and fair rules of the game, and in connection with the conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is also when someone uses a vehicle of a public institution to come to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Isn't that right, sir? Yeah. And he rides neatly through the hospital's vehicle, and he's a congressman. Or he lives in a social apartment, and he's a councilman. And these are conflicts of interest that you can say a lot of things about. But here today is not the topic of individually citing such cases but rather of working on a general document that I consider primarily a dam or a prevention when the rules of the game are set out to play by these rules. Are they tough or too hard? Did we impose this on ourselves or does Europe impose on us, and I think that these censorships that Mr Milanovic spoke of do not impose on us but on ourselves. Are we going to send the citizens a clear message that enough of what they are about is enough perceptions as they perceive us, that once at last Croatian politicians and Croatian politics have a clean face before their citizens, although this is not the only guarantee of this law but something else. The HDSB club in this debate where a lot of amendments and different opinions are proposed will act as the ongoing debate is final. So, when the law is passed and see exactly which amendments have been accepted, whether they have been accepted and what has been accepted since the improvement, it can therefore be done before this legislative proposal is voted itself. We have been restrained about this for now, but I also allow the code, before the vote itself, if the good proposals are adopted, good amendments of common interest to all of us and all of Croatia can happen to vote for. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67851	Thank you. There was one correction. Mr. Representative Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67852	Thank you. Well, that's not true. My colleague Grubisic, I don't know why you all insist from the opposition on two-thirds. So, what's guaranteed by that? Well, nothing's clear. Democracy is the will of the majority. It is known by the Constitution that laws are passed by a two-thirds majority. So it's fixed. This one doesn't belong, which means we're gonna move on. How do we choose those five members? So until you do, there are three of you who won't accept them, and that's how we're gonna block the making of these conclusions. This is simply the two-thirds majority that solves nothing but just, therefore, paralyzes this commission that should produce some results.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67853	And how do we choose the judges of the Constitutional Court? Then there would be no Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67854	On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67855	Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think that, in fact, most of the things that should have been said about this speaker about this law were said and in the debate that was already being held, so in the first part of the debate and on behalf of the club on behalf of which I speak the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party. Our club president Mr. Horvat said most of the things he should have said in this regard. This bill indeed suffers a significant and large number of objections. It is clear that the government was guided by good intentions, and even more clearly that the government was guided by a justifiable goal, which means that there are conditions for the Government to refer to Brussels a report on the basis of which it will be able to obtain the conditions for closing Chapter 23. But I believe that also, as most club representatives here, including opposition clubs, have said that this is a common goal, and that this is something that we all want to achieve. And the president of the SDP, and the president of the HNS, and the representatives of the club of independent representatives, also consider us part of the ruling coalition. The question remains, did the law best formulate what should be done to improve the avoidance of conflicts of interest, or to prevent conflicts of interest? Or the law actually empowers the people we assume should be in their own insights, their grades, and their decisions led by the highest moral values that we can have in society, and also by these people given powers that are very broad, and very significant. I have to admit, regardless of what I don't think, that I belong to people who have a moral problem, but neither would the representatives of the SDSS club fall into a circle of people who have problems with what should be morally involved, but let's take over ourselves and decide that it's us, this ruling majority who best know who these are are people who meet the most moral values in society, and make a decision about their choice without the consent of the other colleagues in the Parliament, so without the need of a two-thirds majority as they say here, I think that would be a mistake. I think that we would throw our colleagues and colleagues at risk, quite unnecessary risk, because I think that the question of achieving the choice of people with such high moral values will be more credible, more reliable and less risk-based if we decide to agree between most clubs in the Parliament than if we decide Mr. Minister by overruling. So if we really have passed this law, not only to technically meet the conditions for closing chapters 23, but to really choose people who will meet the highest moral values, that we have no fear that they will succumb to the challenges of different kinds and powers that they have been turned into different means for political games that should not be played in this place. Then I don't think there's really any reason why we shouldn't modify the law in this sense in which SDP and HNS clubs suggested it. In that sense, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS proposes to you, Mr. Minister, the ruling coalition, that this matter be agreed upon. Another thing I'd like to say about it, which is about the fundamental goal, which is to close chapter 23. If colleagues and colleagues show that most of the parties in the Assembly are in fact in favour of the content of this, and that the way in which people will be elected in this commission is the result of the consent of most political parties in the Assembly, then the credibility of the future implementation, and the future actions of that commission will already be significantly greater than if we bring it to a simple majority, so most of those who are currently the ruling coalition. And so we will create space on the one hand for greater confidence towards Brussels, and on the other hand we will create assumptions that some of the provisions of the law are being modified, and that something that shouldn't be the powers of one commission, even if it was a commission appointed by the largest legislative, supreme legislative body in the state, which is a matter of privacy, is a question of what no one really has the right to do, except in the extraordinary circumstances of institutions that are authorized by the Constitution or by law, and we simply cannot give such powers, and we should not give it to anyone. And a third thing I'd like to say. Since this issue, the issue of preventing conflicts of interest cannot be resolved only by one legislative act, but by changing political practice, by changing political behaviour, by changing political culture, by changing political culture, then it is in fact the best way for us to manifest this change of political practice and change of political culture here, by manifesting what is obviously a common interest, which is on the one hand to end negotiations, and on the other hand by removing doubts that this Parliament is, and that politics is a general space that thanks to the uncontrolled process in which people enter conflicts of interest is then possible by enriching, possible and by obtaining power, possible and retaining political power, possible and remaining in power or by coming to power. So if we want to remove all this, and if there is political will on both the left and the right, then I see no reason why we would not agree on that. So that's something that doesn't stand in our amendment, an amendment to the SDSS Club and the Independent Representatives Club, but I think that's something to go on. And in this respect, the SDSS Representatives' Club will propose to members of the ruling coalition before the vote of this law to agree with the amendments that have this content, which SDP and HNS representatives submitted. As far as the powers of this committee are concerned, there is no doubt that, as stated in the amendment to the SDSS Club and the Independent Representatives Club, at least the rules on the work that this committee is taking must be made by decision or by the will of this Assembly. Contrary to such great powers, even if they are reduced in some segments, we are risking that in different ways we begin to further challenge key institutions, I am not talking about actors and people who play roles in these institutions, but I am talking about the institutions of the president of the state, I am talking about the institutions of judges, I am talking about the institutions of MPs. And in that sense, we expect, Mr. Minister, that you will accept this amendment as I believe you will once we agree within the ruling coalition and accept this perfectly justified and rational requirement for the members of the commission to be elected by a two-thirds majority. And now if you'll let me, Mr. President of Time, I still have even though the basic things I was going to say I said, on this subject, I'm going to say two words about something that's close to this topic. If you think I'm out of this topic, feel free to interrupt me, I won't have a problem respecting your word. It is the following: if the atmosphere in this assembly, and then the atmosphere in the public starts and continues to turn not only into one populist card policy but also one poisoning policy, one defamation policy, one spit policy, the SDSS's club at the head with me and others will not see any further reason if it is not changed to sit in this assembly. Because if there are colleagues and colleagues who don't consider themselves obliged to watch what they say and what they say about other people sitting in this hall, I don't belong to them. And the representatives of the SDSS are also not among those. And if Mr. President-in-Office doesn't do something to change things in this respect, we're going to think that this Parliament and this assembly are going into a phase where a serious debate hasn't been possible for some time. And if a serious debate is not possible, then we feel that we can also work in our club rooms, that we can work with our voters, that we can work with citizens who have chosen us, but that this place is becoming less and less a place where citizens have decided to send us with their own will because some colleagues and colleagues have long failed to respect this will, the Rules of Procedure do not respect and elementary political decency do not respect us. I am as one perhaps smaller number of you are known or another small number of citizens also known as Professor at the Zagreb University. It doesn't occur to me to put my part of academic life into office here and turn it into a means of political work or not give God the political disqualification of moral or other defamation. And that's what happens here. And for this reason, Mr. President, if you call the Presidency, you will have the support of the SDSS Club. If you have resistance to this, we will consider our obligation to support you, and we call on other clubs to join it because otherwise I fear that those who, by speaking here, not from week to week but from month to month degrade, disqualify and degrade these benches and this pay phone actually become the increasingly powerful part and feed the darkest part of the media interest that exists in Croatia. And it doesn't matter whether it's a file like it's rarely turned out by some clubs or defamation as it is about some clubs or at least one of the clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67856	Thank you. Looking strictly at business, you have come out of the agenda with your addendum. However, you could also request a club session and say all of this. After all, I think we've done more rationally this way if it was said here. Otherwise I will repeat, I have announced today during the session of the Assembly after these events that are repeated here, and I agree with you in this unacceptable situation to convene the Presidency of the Assembly extended with the presidents of the Clubs of Representatives so that we can discuss it and actually try to calm down or direct the situation into tolerance, so to speak, at the meetings of the Assembly, respect for the elemental values, ethics, morals and all those elements that make it necessary for the Croatian Parliament at the level of its structure and by its importance in the Croatian state to act as well as to act accordingly. So, I accept that proposal, I've already announced it before, so we'll see what we're going to do, something we're going to do, and if it's going to be a success we're going to see. Here, thank you very much. Now we move on to an individual debate on this bill. We've been reported how many? 18 individual debates. Here's the first Mr. Representative Joseph Leco, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67857	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We colleagues and fellow MPs are going to try to define a conflict of interest to be understood by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia because they are either a democratic judge or should at least be a democratic judge that MPs and all officials who have been given the confidence of the mandate to act in public responsibilities, so that they give an assessment of the conduct of the public office, and the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest has the task of ordering each official to forget his own interest, his own business, the work of his friends, the work of acquaintances of interested persons and their interests. Therefore, to commit itself to performing its duties in general and public interest. It is the only way I can say so to successfully overcome the problems that put the conflict of interest ahead of us as something that reduces political value and action, political institutions and democratic institutions. So without a court of law, we will not give public and public life to the institute of conflict of interest. So it's not a crime and it can't be seen like that. But those who say that corruption, bribery is not a conflict of interest, you are deeply mistaken. So it can't be a bribe and it can't be corruption without touching the public interest. So it's less contained in the larger one. So every bribe and less than 500 kn affecting the official's awareness that something works contrary to public interest is a conflict of interest as well as corruption. Every corruption is a conflict of interest. But of course, any conflict of interest is neither corruption nor bribery nor crime. The second thing I want to say is really unacceptable for democratic standards, as well as for Parliament, which has the priority of ensuring EU entry into the EU that moral law is brought under pressure. This is a law of morality in politics, of morality in public affairs, but it is not morally under pressure to pass that law. It's not moral or acceptable, the more normative optimism we show by regulating conflict of interest won't solve conflict of interest. The law is called preventing conflicts of interest, so it norms something that ej ex lege intended as a conflict of interest. And the commission is not called the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. The commission is called the Committee of Decisions on the conflict of interest. That's a big difference, and we have to point that out, because the commission is an eye and an ally of the public. It is an ally and officials who are well-intentioned because they can and have places where they will ask to eat some circumstance of conflict of interest. We must therefore pay attention to the meaning of the conflict of interest and what we expect from the law called the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Here's an example, according to the law, giving privileged information whether you're related or family to someone is a conflict of interest, and it's not a crime, you haven't given away confidential or classified information. You've given something you know as a person acting as a duty and thus hurt public interest, but it's not a crime. There can't be a word about it that can control it in order to put it in shape. Why am I saying that? Because the law stipulates that the decisions of the first-degree committees will be brought only to the Administrative Court for the time being by the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. In other words, we will turn the assessment of conflicts of interest into a trial. It's not just the meaning of the law. Therefore, administrative courts will have to decide whether someone in conflict of interest is. It is not acceptable and it does not solve conflict of interest. But when we talk about definition, a national attitude which is a conflict of interest, then I'm going to mention article 13 and I'm going to say it very harshly. It is foreseen here that for a paradise conflict of interest the smallest bribe, the smallest job, and the elite is allowed if it is still paid by foreign states, foreign international organisations or foreign associations. So who are you here to secure a job that isn't in conflict of interest? If we add to this now something that about incompatibility of functions, I don't know what article it is, it doesn't matter, I think it's the same 13th, and in one article it says for the performance of the duties of literally other duties, so you can't receive compensation in the plural. What is more important is that you can work for foreign countries, for foreign organisations, for foreign projects and thus you are not in conflict of interest because foreigners love Croatian interest, so everything is in line with our common social interests. But if you're doing something at home, in organizations, then you can't take any compensation for it. I think that one of the articles is quite certain, where it is stated that it cannot be accepted, here it is in Article 7. Officials are prohibited, so under point d receive additional compensation for public duties conduct. So in the multitude of public duties. If you're acting on more public duties, you can't accept compensation, except for those you've secured for the elite. I'll cut it short. So when it comes to selecting members of the commission, it really doesn't make sense to say that the independent body chosen by the very dependent majority is. So the ruling majority picks him for five years and says he's independent. No, it's an absolute body depending on the choice of the ruling majority and it's chosen for five years. So here there is really a conflict of interest now in power with the general interest that there is no conflict of interest. If this is further added to the fact that the authorised proposer of persons in this law is a parliamentary working body in which the governing body also has a majority then they have concreted for their own interest, not for the general interest of the composition of the commission. So it's not possible to say it's an independent body. And in the end, I'm going to say this, this is a form that someone can check the state of accounts when we recently passed the law that Croatian citizens can have bills in all European Union banks. So this is one I could say a false message if you do not report we will only check where, in Croatia, send your savings to the countries of the European Union. I don't know if that's the purpose and interest of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67858	Thank you. We have two replicas. First Mr. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67859	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you have indeed noticed very well because I could not correct Mr. Rebić's incorrect allegations that it is in some way the interest of the ruling to choose this commission by the ordinary majority in the Croatian Parliament to smell it precisely of conflict of interest in order for this commission to be under control. I do not understand why there is mistrust in others who are not in that majority that the commission works properly and well. It is a complete mistrust in others, and we are all here to work, to do something for Croatia. Furthermore, you said this was the Commission of Conflict of Interest, and the law is about preventing conflicts of interest. In addition, officials should not put their private interest above public interest in their behaviour of public duty. A little bit different standing above the prince's court in Dubrovnik where people recognized this in the Middle Ages. And there's something else I wanted to replicate. You said that those officials who, by their own word, by their statement or by the supply of information also lead to a conflict of interest are subject to this, which is not regulated. Namely there are words, deeds and miss and before you the speaker for the club has said that the words are difficult etc., but they are much more difficult and the works that have been done. Well, hard works may require a little more difficult words, even though they can find a measure there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67860	Answer, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67861	Dear colleague Grubisic, you see things well, but I would add something else when you gave me the chance. Articles 17 and 18 shall speak of the ownership of undertakings, i.e. companies which the official has and which should not work with the body in which he operates, shall act in that capacity. Well, that's so narrowing down the conflict of interest. If that were the case, there probably wouldn't be any Fimi-media or any other case because she wasn't just working with an official who's acting in one body, she worked with everyone. It doesn't matter. So it's about whether it's a general, common interest or whether it's an interest of a group or an individual. It's about who you gave the benefit to, who you gave confidential information to, who you gave to, who you gave to, that's where the road's going to go, who you told will have a public tender, etc. It's about honesty in the conduct of public duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67862	Replica, Madam Representative Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67863	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Leko, a replica relating to your position on the politicisation of such a body, or such a commission, in the event that it is chosen by the half-dominated majority. We had a situation here in Croatia that we chose the State Judiciary Council for the most part in the Parliament and one of the reasons why we had to change it was precisely because it was under suspicion that it was de facto the result of then a particular political will and therefore today it is no longer elected in the Parliament by the half majority but we have set up a completely different model of the choice of the State Judiciary Council. Now, if this was considered in itself understandable that such a choice by the State Judiciary Council was the result of a particular political will, namely the will of the ruling majority, so we changed it not well, then how we are now introducing an institute that has its foundation exactly what we had to change because it was not good because it was politicized.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67864	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67865	Comrade Pusic, I've been monitoring your exposure. I fully agree that bodies that control all officials, no matter what level and on which side they deserve to have a special majority, which is in this case the 2/3 majority when they are elected. They're not for one term, they're not for one government, they're not for one party and they're not for the party at all, they're for the citizens. So, I agree with the grade you just said, I don't know if I was accurate, but I agree with what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67866	Thank you. It is up to Madam Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67867	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Usually when a law is passed in the House and most often the parliamentary majority is thrilled with these suggestions that the government makes, and then they express their satisfaction by welcoming the law as if the law had changed and became a person. So simply on that trail of greetings the proposal of this law should be welcomed which he according to his content is: Good night, Croatia. In fact, such a law must be a defense and a constitution to prevent, therefore, all possibilities of position, situations in which duty could possibly be found. That is why he, his essence, is as his name is to prevent conflicts of interest. Of course, not only does every law contain his name. There's a rope going somewhere, somewhere wider. The most common is the broader content than the name itself. But as this bill has already been mentioned here, it also gives its emphasis on persecution and not on preventing conflicts of interest. And then we're way in trouble. This is the state, and thus the government has admitted that it has capitulated the persecution of these most dangerous behaviors from conflicts that can turn into corruption, crime of any kind. She thus admitted that her institutions were weak, that they were not respected by citizens, that she did not respect them to say in general and in conversation Brussels. And that is a great defeat and seriousness, because our strength for Croatia's entry into the European Union must be precisely at the strengthening of institutions. By forming such a special body, the supra of the institutional body is a serious lack of both the deficit of Croatian policy and Croatian institutionality. After 21 years of Croatian statehood, you admit that the police are not working for you, that you do not have faith in the police, in the judicial system, in the Ministry of Finance which has a good operation, or good institutions, so that many of the behaviors that come into the forbidden zone can be fought and detected. I'll just mention here and the Bureau of Prevention of Money Laundering. Why? Because you haven't given all these bodies the authority you're giving this body, and that's a serious problem. That's the kind of law that respected Professor Krapac called them, because they are called in theory and they are called moustache laws because they allude to Stalinist times. Is it possible that in one country in the 21st century, a country that will become and has one tomorrow, we have the ambition to do so as soon as possible and to have an administrative body above the court. That's scary. And no matter how they decide the state's bodies, they either administer or judge. There's no third. Where you give one administrative body powers that you have not had the ability to give to the State's Attorney's Office. We are here as a SDP club when the criminal proceedings were passed, and when great powers were given to the State Attorney's Office just because an investigation as part of a court case went missing, an official court case because the investigation was taken by a state attorney we asked exactly that the State's Attorney, the State's Attorney's Office had the possibility without court's approval to seek account information so that he could at all justify suspicion and have some material to go into the investigation. Because that's usually the first point. That's what you refused. You refused, and you requested that the court give its order, and in that time many claims were delayed because such a person was notified before the approval and the accounts were emptied, so that it became almost one wound cancer and one weak link in the persecution and detection of the most severe perpetrators of criminal offences and all those jurisdictions and in the jurisdiction that we had just given to UsKOK. And so now that it is so voluntary to give such powers to this commission that defeat is indeed politics, and the intensity of such laws everywhere in the world that are called a code, an ethical code, somewhere in the form of the law are exactly what they are alluding, that they are going after the purity of political life, to affirm politics as a good job, as a work for the common good. However, with all the false intensities, all the wrong intensities. Someone here said that this law was passed in good faith but there was a mistake or so we have to do something about Europe, we have to close our eyes, shut our noses, even though this law smells very much like that mustache of time, so we're going to close chapter 23 of the Constitution, our supreme act of every country, every serious country that isn't a banana country, which isn't a banana state. Because like this, propose a law like this and have the strength to bring it to you it's a confession that we're not in a banana, but in a banana plantation really. Why does this law have no good intentions? Is it possible? Now I'm going to tell you how well you've looked out for who, so that somewhere you can deal with political inexperiences and reward others. So it's in Article 13 that says what jobs the official can't do. So if we remember in that previous not-now reading, but that bill we had other than scientific, research, education, sports, cultural, artistic, independent agricultural activities and professional activities, then there would be a number of all activities and then a question arises and where is the exception. And now this professional activity is gone, so one doctor will no longer be able to be a doctor or will therefore have to ask for special approval of the commission, and the commission will then issue licences. Well, that's scary stuff, 'cause one of those same doctors can allow the other to work, not the other. This is what you have in Article 13 in the second paragraph. It can't be. You have thus disabled all other institutions and professional institutions. But to whom you give the opportunity to work, even though the real intensity of the law was and all the laws that only officials and those involved in scientific research can do. No one else. But you allow farmers, those who carry out an independent agricultural activity, which is a service to your coalition partner. So let's just say that Minister Cobankovic, for example, I have no idea what he's dealing with, let's say he can be a minister and this Minister of Agriculture, he can have a big property, grow I don't know what. To get support and the same products to sell to the Government. And there is no conflict in you, or this law of conflict of interest. Well, that's funny. That's really funny. And this wasn't done by accident, because you specifically insisted on agricultural activity. I know that because we've had this kind of pressure. So the doctor can't. Why can't a worker? Why can't someone who works and has some kind of drive, so he's doing something? Why do you know a peasant from a worker? In the industry, who's got some kind of drive? He doesn't have a company, but he's got a drive, and he can't be an official. But the Latinist owner can also receive support from the same ministry, he can sell products, and he can be both minister and official. It's just not acceptable. And behold, in article 14, in the previous proposal, mates, and all of them in the vertical line could not be members of not only officials, but they could not be members of administrative and supervisory bodies, but in the meantime we had seen the situation with Minister Dalic, but now there is no more in Article 14 of that, and there is no conflict of interest. So what you didn't write here in law, there's no conflict of interest to you. It's simply not an understanding, a good understanding of what conflict of interest is at all, and what conflict of interest is not. The conflict of interest is something that is forbidden to the official, and the other citizen is allowed, and these exceptions must be specifically indicated, and like this in Article 13 when you say that during the conduct of the public office to which he is elected, that is, the appointed official must not act in another public capacity unless otherwise prescribed by law. Well, that's pointless. This law must.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67868	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67869	Marking specificities, not referring to the existing law, because it is pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67870	Thank you for your discussion and contribution to the debate. Thank you very much. Let's move on. It's your turn, sir. And we have one replica, I'm sorry, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67871	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. By the way, Mrs. Marinović, you've seen or concluded that well, and used the Syntagma to mustache the law. Today, children from Vinkovac, from high school, visited the Croatian Parliament. And you know what the first question of those children was? Would it be good for Croatia to have a dictator and dictatorship? Would it be good for Croatia to introduce a dictatorship or a dictator? It's the thinking of a high school kid. I'm not saying it's mine, to be clear, I'm just quoting. And secondly, what you have seen well, is that in Article 13, which you have spoken of, indeed, you have mentioned doctors, so the commission will decide on it, so here is Mr. Hebrang's doctor, there's plenty of us here about who, or who can perform and disorderly, so the irregular work at a medical facility that is certainly his home base in some way or parent institution, and who can't. It is precisely because you spoke, and what was previously spoken, in connection with the choice of this commission, that it is partly important that this commission be chosen not to say by consensus. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67872	Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. It is difficult to take away the impression that history is repeated, and we are six times making certain changes to this law and changing certain things. And I'm going to remind you of one thing that happened four years ago, about this same time at the beginning of the year we changed the law for one reason, the actor was the same, then he was prime minister, now he's a priest, Mr. Sanader then the public wondered how that man had a huge value on his watch without reporting it in his property card. And then the debate took place, one of the louder ones was the government's spokeswoman, who was usually not trusted by journalists when he spoke, Mr. Macek, who was saying that in the card there was movement, but there was no idea which movement, because it wasn't written whether they were worth moving around and whether you had to sign them up if the watches were antique furniture, and even people were making fun of it in the government, in the ruling coalition, saying whether you should report an aesthetic operation, whether it was a movement. Of course, the entire government and the entire HDZ were forced to justify then Prime Minister Sanader's failure to report that property he apparently had, of course they didn't know that there were still many times more at home, but what was seen on the screen had to be reported, and the man reported a million-and-a-half kuna in motion. And it wasn't just him, but then suddenly other officials, ministers in the government, and members of the HDZ, realized that Mrs Kosor had to report her movements, so she also reported 200 thousand kuna, Polancec 500 thousand kuna, and in turn all ministers, not to count them now. So then the law changed again to justify a certain situation, and justify an unacceptable, socially unacceptable behaviour, which has escalated we see 4 years later in this situation where Croatia is now, and its former prime minister. And now, so we need again for one regret I would say HDZ, to pass a law that essentially the European Union is not looking for us. None of us ask for such provisions as are defined in the law. The conflict of interest was well defined in the previous law, even better defined when it determined that the chairman of the commission would be from the opposition, and there was nothing problematic. Make it an opposition person. Tomorrow, when you are the opposition, you will have the chairman of the commission and you will be able to monitor further what the government is doing. And it's a normal procedure that the then member of the commission, or the chairman of the commission, Mr. Leko, has done well and has been fined and the law has been amended precisely because of those watches and movements that he then referred to as the chairman of the commission and that the law was then amended. And now we're changing the law to say here it won't be possible for what happened in Croatia to happen to the former prime minister in this way to acquire property, not to report it, etc. I don't think that's the right approach, and I don't think that's gonna stop anything. These provisions in the law, for example, access to accounts. In abroad, of course, we have no jurisdiction whatsoever as Parliament that some banks they have and whose customers in Croatia sign their consent to give an insight into the accounts of the commission that will be in Croatia. On the other hand, the question is, why aren't there safes defined in the law? Bank safes probably hide even higher values than bills. What if that's how we raised the question of bank accounts? Then why not raise the question of who's guarding what in the safes? And that's where you see the paradox, who keeps what's at home. What will the people of the commission go and search the houses for? Did anyone report this or that picture? Is there under the mattress or in the stocking 100,000 euros? So that's the one thing that's absolutely inconclusive and that's the law's fault because it doesn't provide anything. So it doesn't ensure that someone who wants to behave corruptly and illegally that this law will make it impossible. It's only for the purpose of telling HDZ and showing the public, and from now on we won't steal anymore. But it's just wrong. It cannot be used in this way by the institution, by laws to justify one party and one authority that has done some things all these years that it should not have done. What would be better is what counterpart Vidovic said a much better regret and a much better apology would have been if you had spoken honestly and asked Croatian citizens what they thought and apologized for these actions that your former and prime minister had done. There would probably be much greater and much better validation of citizens for the party itself than I would say to the PR laws to try to wash off my guilt. What's technically almost impossible is 34 points where all the officials in the law are numbered. It's about my estimate of about 2.5 thousand officials. And now you tell me that the commission and how many commissions people need to check all that data, check all the bank accounts if it is necessary to visit and the homes of certain officials to see if all the photos are registered or not. How is it even possible to do that? And whether the commission will be blocked due to this provision and will not do its job in a good way. It is therefore not possible to use what exists in the Croatian institution, which is known and competent to use not only officials but all citizens, whether they have paid taxes on what they have earned and whether the property corresponds to what they have reported in their tax cards. Tax administration. Which is why the IRS cannot make an insight into both the assets and the OIB and in some way the officials' incomes and say that it is okay, it is possible or if it is not possible to seek through the commission an explanation of how they acquired the property. And there are meanings of institutions that could control it and there have been all these years, but unfortunately they haven't been used and we see what kind of things have happened. In this situation, as the president of my party has said, we are in some way underestimating our country and the officials who work and live in it. In this way it is suggested that if you are a commanding officer, you are inclined to do certain things that are not legal and could be exploited by certain things, and you should not. For example, in Sweden, there are no such laws, so as far as corruption is concerned, Denmark and Finland are at the top of the world, and I would say the law that is "the most rigorous" under quotes regarding the control of officials does not stand but the corruption index in Croatia is twice as small as it is, because there is a score of 1 to 10. For example in Croatia is this index of perception of corruption at 4 and in Sweden which is the first in the world is 9. So the law is no guarantee. And I'm going to say another example, we had, here's the history again, we had 2000 elections in Croatia and in 1999 the corruption perception index was 2.9 in Croatia and after the change of power in one year it jumped one whole point up, so at 3.9. And it's caused by a different style of conduct. There were no laws, and yet corruption was much smaller and the perception of corruption in Croatia was much smaller. Since 2001, when it was 3.9 today again is 4.1. So, almost nothing's changed. And I guarantee you that you do not pass this law, and if the government changed, that index would jump again by a few points not because it has or has no law but is a different, more responsible, fairer power in the work in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67874	Thank you. Two corrections. First Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67875	Thank you, sir. Well, here's what I expected from my colleagues, and no offense, but I still have to make it right that this law has not been passed for HDZ. Finally HDZ clears up, if you are a spokesman for the Croatian people, HDZ clears up its affairs and sees it well and expects when you will clear it up. And you also agreed, I'm sorry, you also agreed with your president, is that this law is an insult to officials. Your president insulted the officials today because he said that how can the same law apply to the President of the Republic and to the Deputy Mayor of the City? Is that deputy municipal chief something so low down there that His Highness doesn't even see it from above? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67876	And Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67877	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So MP Maras said it was incorrect that the perception index significantly increased corruption after the coalition government arrived in 2000. That's right, 2001. He was better and because citizens had a great expectation of what would happen with the change of government and a lot of public talk about corruption, etc. And, of course, expectations were high. But then in 2002 it turned out that there was nothing of these expectations, so it started to fall, fall, fall and fall until 2006 and then by graph you see you have one drastic leap and the best score was that in 2008, it grew rapidly, of course because of all the documents and the implementation of those documents that were brought during the HDZ government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67878	Comrade Maras, I listened very carefully to the injury of the Businessman, saying I listened very closely to what you said and what was the correction. Let's see.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67879	Thank you very much. Article 209 was injured because colleague Lovirn said I was right when I said he jumped in 2001. So it can't be a correction to an incorrect quote when someone says that the speaker used to be right. Because then that would be a confirmation of the exact quote, you understand. I think the Businessman is hurt because there is no institution to confirm the exact assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67880	Well, it wasn't a correct quote. In the first part of correcting the incorrect quote you were weak, and in the second part you gave in. Because you ignored the second part of your claims. Now, the minister of justice will give final consideration to this final bill. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67881	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. There were a lot of questions. First of all, thank you all for the debate because the debate has resulted in a whole series of amendments that we will very carefully analyse tonight and determine tomorrow about these amendments. But let me say a few points, though. There were really different questions, and there were hard words to say that the law was freakish and all that. Look, neither we have prescribed a law from anyone nor we have to pass the law at all, nor we have to enter the EU at all, we have to do things for ourselves to arrange our own house so that it is based on the rule of law, that it is one regulated state and these are our fundamental objectives. The truth is, on the other hand, we need the law to close chapter 23, because that's exactly what we would have if we had a good law and a good system, I wouldn't be here today on this subject and we wouldn't be dealing with it at all. It's just that the system we have isn't good. And that's the grade. And this law is a step forward. Here is what you are now calling for in this final presentation to Transparency, which is one organization we appreciate, whose work we often appreciate, which often doesn't even praise us, is more critical of us, but it is this law that they have made a statement and that the law is a step forward. Let's believe it. I believe the law can be better, but we'll see when it starts to work. But as far as conflicts of interest are concerned, a number of fears here are unnecessarily needed for us to construct some kind of body that a parauscous, a paradorch that will enter our houses, count those things as well. No, that's not it. It's not that body. The conflict of interest and the basis of this law is prevention, is transparency of the public. What we have in the card, let what we publish be true, and no one has any problems. We have to regulate, there was a matter here beware, whether those who have become officials, who have companies, who have shares whether these societies can work at all. So let's say if he wanted to be an official, what would we do with it? Not people when they were born when they were kids no one said I'd be a minister someday or I'd be a representative. They've been doing something in their lives. They've got some kind of company. These companies hire people and now that someone is in a position to act as representatives, which is why he is forced to fire these people, to move the company off himself. This law regulates these very questions about how to behave. So handing over to management if anything questionable is precisely these preventive mechanisms, the law is based on preventive mechanisms. Everything we're in doubt is a matter of commission. But now there are doubts here that the commission will be some kind of party, that the commission will actually be in office against those. I don't think it makes any sense. Now we say the commission is from people who are not party members, it is made up of professional people who have proven themselves in their professions. In front of this Parliament will come a list with a double number of candidates, meaning with more than one being elected and no one saying that no consensus will be passed, regardless of whether the law states whether the qualified majority whether the ordinary majority is two-thirds, no one says that Parliament could not agree on such a commission. But what's important is we've made a step forward, we want a depolitanization and we want one body that will actually do professional work. Checking, checking is really a serious complaint because in the current system we don't have the ability to check cards. We can write a lot of things and we don't have a chance to check it out. In order to check, we must also make a statement that it is possible but for the sake of verification, not because someone is watching traffic on our account every day and watching who, which, which and how, but simply and exclusively, writes in the law exclusively for the purpose of checking that it is possible to see whether or not it is possible in the bank. All these things that you are now and you in the last little bit concentrate because you were the last to have an exposure, that someone might have here or there. It's no longer a matter of this commission, it's a matter of some other bodies. It's a matter of some other bodies. The point here is to avoid situations to come to this possible conflict of interest. That's the point of avoiding these situations. Because you will admit, these duties carry corrupt risks, and in the end, history has shown. In fact, it's the meaning of the law, and that law has everyone else. These aren't by far solutions, these aren't solutions that don't exist in the world. We say it's rigorous, so in many other systems there are more powerful measures. The question of whether the mayor can't, Article 13. Look, the mayor can, he can be a parliamentary representative because this law cannot enter the area of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and in this special law it is regulated that everything is incompatible with the duties of legislators and on this side this law has not entered into this, and it is stated fundamentally that the principle that two duties are unacceptable, however, unless a special law is laid down. So in a specific case, the question was most asked if the mayor could. No, because it's a special law that says it can. Then there was also one question where it was said that we allowed anonymous applications as a strong instrument. No, the law says exactly that, to prevent actual manipulation, that application must be explained, that it must be credible and that it must be unanonymous, so it must be signed. And here, I think this is how we get a better law than the system we have, and that it will change in the future, of course, that it will show practice. There is no law that any promoter can come for this speaker and say that he regulated all the situations that can arise in life. It just doesn't exist. But I think this law offers steps and I think that this law is just all those Benchmarks that we have to deal with. Thanks again to everyone for the debate. We're going to re-analyze this. Tomorrow we'll set out about the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67882	Thank you. One correction. First, Gordan Maras Mr. Representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67883	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect assumption that this law prevents it. So it may partially prevent, but if you said you'd control the accounts, there's a whole series of ways that someone who's corrupt can use and hide that property. So this, it's hard to take away the impression that this was made especially because it quotes a provision in the country and abroad, that this was done to take advantage of an actual case for the people to see that it would be impossible in the future. Unfortunately, it will also be possible in the future, unfortunately it will be possible in the future. I wish it would prevent 100% of what you're saying, but unfortunately, it's not possible. And just to say in the end, since you said the law would have to change, it probably won't stay forever, very likely the law will change quickly unless all parties in this House agree on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67884	And Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67885	Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations, Mr. Secretary's claim that we have to admit that we have a bad law and a bad system in this area. I think it's incorrect, and I think we've been able to solve certain situations so far by the laws we've had. The problem is that we had a policy that allowed individual officials at all levels, from the lowest to the highest to the highest, to act beyond the existing laws and who, by their behaviour and influence, made it impossible for certain state institutions to do their job in the way they had just begun to do it recently. I don't know what kind of law we can bring in. I don't think we've predicted everything in there. If we have a policy in power that will make it possible to bypass laws, then we won't do anything again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67886	I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with point 4. Proposal for a Decision on the 2011 Declaration of Ruđer Boskovic in the Republic of Croatia and the 2009 National Higher Education Council report and the 2009 Financial Report of the National Higher Education Council. That would be tomorrow in the open area, and at 12 o'clock the vote on the points discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67887	Answer, Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67888	... The election of members of the commission is about the intention and the political motivation of such a bill, because they are blasphemed under the hat, under the edifice of depoliticalism goes to a hidden variant or mistrust in their own ranks, from the ruling ones, so to God, we will choose just the people who do not, should not be members of the political party and no one can object to us. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] However, it should not be doubted that these are persons of the greatest trust, and not ruling as a whole, but certain, I will not say... I don't know what the power ratio is with you, but it's part of the HDZ. [[You don't understand.]] And that's certainly not good. If you're really thinking about taking longer care of these things, then this amendment of ours needs to be considered. And as far as what you're saying is that a citizen asks you this young man if we have a dictatorship, so we'd better have a dictatorship, in any case here in Croatia is at the work of democracy, and instead of the former dictatorship of proletariat we have a dictatorship of a higher kind, a dictatorship of capital before which it capitulates politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67889	Thank you very much. Big words without content. I have to tell you that. But here's your thing. Igor Dragovan has a word now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67890	Mr. President. I'm looking at this law on the government's attempt to seek one more thing through this law, and that's that they're all the same. Well, they're not all the same. Not all are the same in politics, not all officials are the same, and you can't do it like this, and under the cover of a law like this again try to push the thesis that they're all the same. And this law is also a continuation of the government's wandering to solve corruption problems, which has recently been banned in the Croatian political space, at least by the ruling ones, to become the most needed word of the ruling, as an alibi for what is currently being done. But I think that Croatian citizens should be reminded of one fact, which is the beginning of 2007, i.e. January, when in fact the Committee's system of preventing conflicts of interest and collapse. Basically, parliamentary supervision is a fundamental issue in which the minority needs to oversee the majority, and in this system as we had laid down in which the president of such types of commission comes from the opposition is a key thing, but in January 2007, the system was destroyed, and it was brought down on the property of one official, i.e. to determine the property of one official who was at that time the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. So, hardly, in this whole competition over part of the high official's assets, or former prime minister, the entire government has put itself in the story of determining what is actually a conflict of interest, or what is to be reported by the official in its property card. So then the current Justice Ministry, which you are now headed by Mr. Bosnjakovic, then the Ministry of Justice that you were not headed by, had on behalf of the Government, a written correspondence with that same commission, looking for reasons to justify something not to apply to the property card, and should have applied to the property card because it stands out, and now we see it at tens of thousands of euros, if not hundreds of thousands of euros. Then the entire system of preventing conflicts of interest and commission fell. After that is also... a concept and comes another kind of commission in which unfortunately again we are in a situation that comes to the commission of people who need to decide at a high moral and ethical level about whether someone committed a certain offence to turn out later that they are the subject of criminal investigations, they end up in court. It is therefore the same question as how they were elected and on whose proposals and those members of the commission. This was about depoliticalising the commission, but it's hard to trust the proposals made by the ruling majority in view of the previous ones I mentioned, so I'm going to give you another example. Well, we had a proposal also ruling in the same sensitive sphere, which is the Council for Civil Oversight of Secret Services, which comes up with a proposal that we say is not a good proposal, so he re-votes himself on the home Committee on Internal Policy and National Security so that there is, however, before the final solution, that is, after the vote by ruling, we realized that he does not fit the legal conditions and cannot be. That is why we have a reserve on the composition of the future commission as proposed in which there was a system that was simply brought down in the sole protection of the political interest of the ruling party and its prime minister at that time. And that was the man who was the most protected man in the Republic for six years by the entire system of the Ministry of the Interior, the security and intelligence agencies, so now we see where we ended up. I don't know which commission can solve this in any way. On the other hand, we have an example of how we choose the State Election Commission. I am not talking about the way Parliament is elected, but about the composition, which is that there is one vice president and two members proposed by the ruling coalition or the ruling structure, both on the other hand, by the vice president and by the two members proposed by the opposition. So we're talking about a deal. About that for some bodies, and this is the same body, if not more important than the DIP, although both are equally important, in addition to this law you put them in the same level, why didn't it occur to you to make such a proposal to choose this commission? There is simply no confidence that you are willing to give absolute people who can guarantee that there will be no abuse. And in that whole story about this law, once again, I want to underline one very important fact, I think that at this moment, and most important, that we are absolutely not all alike and that, in the way of one unquality law, we cannot wash the past's sins. I'm not saying that everyone is equally guilty, but there are those who really carried the burden of political responsibility and in this political responsibility took advantage of themselves and this law certainly cannot erase what happened with a rubber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67891	Thank you. Let's move on. It's Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67892	Well, here's Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you might want to put this a little bit further from politics, but here we have heard a typical political speech that needs to be responded to. If we're leaving since 2007, then we need to say clearly and loudly, in 2007, let's change it, it's not the president of the opposition committee anymore, but I don't see what the problem is. So I was a little bit interested in what happened when he was president of the opposition, so I went to look for some papers, and I found that he wasn't exactly the former president of the opposition putting on the agenda of the application against his members, and I can document it, I have it here. So that's what politics was for. So, not everything is ideal the way you wanted it to be. So we have the current composition 3-3. So 3 from the opposition, 3 from the position and we have 5 independent members of the commission and I think this works well. I'm sorry to say here's one member of the opposition, dear colleague Leko, boycotting to say the commission's work. So, he doesn't come to the committee to demean the work of the commission and that's not right. Because the rest of them come from the opposition, and I think that's what's going on. No complaints, nobody in particular cares or caressed or left out. So, it's all going in order, they're punishing each other. So, according to the reports. And this commission of the present actually works most often according to the reports either anonymous or signed because that's how it says it can. What happens now, now, in this next assembly, or next by law? So, in the commission there are no more representatives of either and the other and come really 5, here are five members of the commission that we actually disagree on. We'll probably end up agreeing because the commission should work. There could've been a deal like I don't know about the Program Council or something. So there's always been a way to make a deal here. But here, the law should be sent at this point. He's rigorous, he's much stricter than the last law, it's not at all controversial. He seeks far more clarity about the property, but it should be said simply if the politician is not ready to speak to him about the property publicly then he better move out of politics. Or, we have cases now that actually a politician who's on, here are the mayors, mayors and so on, who are ordering politics to increase his assets and that's public. So that's where the sanctions should go. And that's why I'm that exactly the penalties that are supposed to be here are bigger to actually prevent that because it's a must to be prevented. You can't talk in the elections about taking care of citizens' interests, and in the end it turns out that you care about your best interests, talk exclusively about your firm and the well-being of your own companies. So a new structure – 5 people in this new structure. The president and four members of the professionals for five years. And now the question is, to what extent will it be of interest? What about after five years? So I'm not even afraid, or I'm a little afraid that there won't be too much interest in it, but I think in any case there's a deal, a quality deal can be reached. If we analyze these laws all together, it's clear that we've all talked together about what's going to happen to the call for the one who often breaks, but often violates, who doesn't respond to what the commission is sending him, what's with that call. Call after the resignation. The call for resignation has its political weight. So, politicians are otherwise rewarded or punished every 4 years, so always in the elections, but this kind of one call to the commission that if it gets joint support should have a weight, it should have power, I don't think it's small. Because someone can ignore him. And from those chosen, it may be easier to replace those who are set up if the commission actually concludes that they are in conflict of interest, but this has its political weight. It is not easy to publish cheaply in the daily press of such calls, but sometimes it is necessary. Perhaps it would be convenient for the commission to be put at the expense of penalties so that he could pay these calls, because I think the fine was enough so there would be a lot of phone calls paid. So we have a law that if we stick to it, which is not an alibi of any kind, the law as we hear from the opposition has no reason for an alibi, because it doesn't object. Finally, we are not opposed here. I find it strange why colleagues and colleagues in the SDP are so opposed to the adoption of this law. It can change substantially with amendments and I think that one part of the amendment will be accepted, changed in a way that what is perhaps a little too difficult at this point, because not to be too much of a leap between the past and this law, it is in any case welcome. Finally, we are all here to improve the law of any amendments, and that is the aim of the debate in the House, that is the aim of the Parliament's work, and I think there is always a lot of, a lot of space. It seems to me that the minister also has a good will, in fact every amendment to look at and one part of the amendment certainly accepts here. It wasn't a bit convenient, the fact is it's the last hour that this is urgent, hastening to pass this law. Perhaps if we had more time it would have been better, but there's also correspondence with the EU isn't going so fast. We to them today, they answer us tomorrow and so on. And as for the rest of us, there are a lot of different ways to look around Europe, but they're not exactly if we think of Europe as being very mild, they're not very mild laws. They have the same severe punishments, the application is always complicated in every country and also with us. But in the hope that this law will bring about improvement, transparency that it will yet accept politicians a little differently than here so far, I believe that we will support the adoption of this law and that we will eventually agree that this law is beneficial for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67893	Thank you. We have two corrections and four replicas. Mr. Joseph Leco has both. Here you go. Whatever you want? You called in the replica first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67894	Here's the correction. So it's a lie that the president of the commission selectively drew up the agenda. It's a lie and it's not true. Why? Because the first identified conflict of interest to the SDP official is the first one at all. In Croatia at all, the first official to have a conflict of interest was identified as a SDP official, and I chaired the committee. Secondly, it is not possible for the president to decide on the agenda because the agenda is being voted on, and even then most in the commission had HDZ, therefore, it is a lie. As far as the replica goes, I'm going to say it like this. The composition of the commission was such a 2+2+3, so two of the opposition, two of the ruling coalition, 3 of the so-called. Independent experts. From the opposition, I was like the president and Pejo Trčević from HSP. from the position was Maria Byte, I don't know who else was and the decision was unanimous except when it came to HDZ officials. After putting HDZ officials on the agenda not only Sanader but also others, then pressure began on the commission and obstruction of the commission's work. The Commission's request to examine whether someone's dentist costs more than 500 kn, whether someone's elevator is registered in a property card, whether mobile property is to be reported or not, which belongs to the property, how the property is treated by economic definition, according to the legal definition, as by accounting definition. So, it was to say so designed by a ruling attack on the destruction of the commission's work. Since you've already given me a chance to say this, I have here all the documentation, all the luck I've brought home, and I can gladly copy and send you all the memos signed by the government. We address one person, Eve Sanader, the government signs, the minister signs, one, the other, the third, and we ask one simple question. Is your property a watch or not a watch? Does your property include a car or does it not belong to a car? It was a colleague of the commission's work and that was the relationship to the political party's commission. Unfortunately, I had to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67895	Mr. Markovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67896	Here's a colleague of your own you said that the first person to be punished, called and processed was a member of the SDP, so you wanted credibility to prove it that way, and that doesn't seem convincing to me. But I'm not taking the paperwork home, but I have it here in my office, which also says it's not on the agenda exactly two complaints for your member. Therefore, what the president proposes on the agenda is voted on in the agenda. If something isn't suggested then it's not on the agenda. But it doesn't matter. But it's something else that matters. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A colleague speaks of our morale as all together, and you gentlemen seem untouchable all together. But that's what it's all about. But I think it's a better variant, better that the president really isn't from any party that he can then work without the pressure of his party or the opposite party or government or any other government, and I assume that this bill will bring about that improvement that there won't be any other members for either side. And we have now, I last said we have very prominent members. Here is Vlaho Bogisic, we have Mr. Petrovic, Antun Zorislav Petrovic, Mrs. Jadranka Kolarevic, so we have people you won't pull on either side, who are too strong there and who will evaluate really by conscience. Therefore, do not energize what is good and works.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67897	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67898	I am correcting the quote of my colleague Markovanovic who said that this commission works well. It doesn't work very well. Here's the last example that I think doesn't work well is the fact that the committee did not discuss a potential conflict of interest in the event that the finance minister's husband became a member of the INA Board but, even moreover, without a committee meeting, that committee president publicly expressed his personal position that there was no conflict of interest. Ask the citizens what they think about the state's finance minister having no influence in the business of the company, regardless of what you call it a foreign-owned company. Therefore, in the end it should be established that there is no conflict of interest and as such a conclusion to present it outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67899	Mr. Zeljko Turk, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67900	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Markovanovic, part of your debate moved me to this replica about politics and politicizing, and when it comes to conflict of interest. I might also as a contribution to this debate say that when we last passed a law that spoke of conflict of interest we said and striped all of us parliamentary representatives and all of those involved in telling all of what we have money, gold, technology, real estate and we have reported it neatly or not neatly, but transparently said what to all the potential thieves and all those who said look at Turk, you could find nice gold at home, maybe in the bank, so let's use it a little bit. Why am I saying that? Because now we point out something else, that someone who needs to determine that we are putting into the focus of our thinking, and I think it's a good part of the technical question is whether someone is in charge of saying that Mr. Markovanovic has 800,000 euros in the bank of xy, so much property or Mr. Turk. And my moral obligation was to say that I've reported so much, so it looks like we're changing pots here, and we're going from an important point of view to a non-essential, and it's a very good part for the purpose of politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67901	Answer, Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67902	Well, it's transparency again. So we'd have to do everything to be visible to the people with property and bills and everything else. Namely, the story is full and will always be, not just with us, let's look at some neighbouring countries towards the European Union. Every politician is being campaigned and charged with the same thing. So let's be clear, let's show what we have or what we've acquired while we've been in some position of office, which is very important, and I think that's the most important thing in this law, and that's not what we should be afraid of. I don't know how this great fear that this law will take away our privacy, that someone will tell us this or that. Well, the fact is that the property card has everything to write down, and only part of it goes public on the page. So those things, if we're talking about family, kids, the rest, there's no, it shouldn't go unless clearly there's a clear misunderstanding that some money has been transferred and so forth. So let's not be afraid of this or the law, let's not be afraid of the card, there was conflict of interest in all governments. My dear colleagues will forgive, the conflict of interest during their government was remarkable, exceptional because no minister has ever done what their minister was doing there, no government has ever driven on the Shimuna yacht that moved the island of Pag, as a major taxpayer and made decisions there and therefore paid 100 million kuna but well. It's not a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67903	Replica, Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67904	I would just like to tell you that I am a member of the committee and that is why I did not want to report that I speak in front of the club or in personal name, but we already consider it logical to listen to the criticisms of our colleagues on both sides of the hall, to try to improve the work that will be done within that committee tomorrow, but when you have answered, I decided to reply. This law of my colleague Markovovich will be back on these benches in a year, two days, that's good. It can always be better and even better and even better and I greatly appreciate everything the colleagues and Tomljanović and Dragovan and Leko and Antičević and everyone else have said. What remains of a visit in the air and what would be good to resolve by the end of this session is the question of what is depoliticalism. I don't think it's a good definition that this is the case when you don't have a politician in the commission. That's not enough. It's said by a colleague, I don't think it's good. Depolitical is when politics cannot affect decisions and decision-making and the work of the commission, and in this case it is not. In this case, if you were in opposition, you would surely object to us that out of the 50 applications in the contest we will choose the five most favored of us. And why we have no right to suspect the same thing when it comes to you. With 2/3 of the majority, we are forced to consensus, to talk, to agree to really choose the best, so I ask Mr. Minister to really accept this amendment and thus we will start a cycle of really correct mode of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67905	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. No answer? Thank you. Then the replica, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67906	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's what I'd like to tell my colleague Markovanovic that this new law certainly has its own good side and will prevent everything that's happened before. And that some ministers didn't teach cards at all, that certain government vice-presidents were teaching blank cards, that there was no order and that there was no responsibility at all, and here it was visible from the beginning of 2004 with clear names and last names. I'm not gonna do this on purpose today because everyone knows who it was and what it was doing. Therefore, this law will certainly make it impossible, but I believe that today there are no those who dare not hand over the card, so that they do not put their property in it, so that they do not present how it was acquired, which is credit. So that's how we see on this page for Cacic that at the time he showed that he increased his assets to 12.5 million kuna from 8.6. You just have to justify how it's gotten. Here, it is clear to these records on the 2004 Newspaper pages that writes who is who and who did what, and therefore it is necessary that this law sets out all relevant items of conflict of interest or failure or punishment that may be sought and that is the resignation of the official.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67907	Thank you. Mr. Markovanovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67908	Well, here's a colleague named Djakic, namely, when it comes to meeting cards, whether he wants to do it or not, I think that will has passed the will of all those who wanted to ignore it. Because they're fined 10 grand, and they're fined 10 grand again. So money, it's still a significant money for not filling the paper. And I believe that there will be no more. These penalties have been increased with the possibility of punishment, so the above sum has been increased and I think it is good and should actually be respected if it can be done by several thousand and then the few who seem to have agreed to pay 10,000 without knowing that they will be welcomed by so many more. So, but I think it's taken care of and it's out of your head, somehow it's out of your mind that ignoring a body like this is definitely not worth it. Everything else we know about what happened, how it was. We know who got rich when he got rich. Unfortunately, we've been remembering too long, so then we can talk about it, and then everyone resents us. But if there had been a lot of conflicts of interest before, unfortunately I say there have been and I hope this law will contribute precisely to the fact that such more conflicts will not be particularly seen that the stakes have been reduced greatly in the ability to deal with the body in which the official works. So a private-owned company with 20% even at 0.5% should be informed then. So it's also control, and control what I think will be a huge deal is checking all the cards. It's a terrible job, and whoever goes in there, I think they're gonna be doing a lot of work here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67909	Thank you. Let's move on to the debate. Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67910	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. When we discuss the final draft law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the first place, I would refer to the difference between the bill's proposal and I am pleased to point out that the final draft of the law contains observations made in the debate on working bodies and plenary sessions. In addition to harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union, the final draft law introduces a number of improvements to the current text of the law. In practice, the implementation of the 2003 Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has shown that some provisions of the law should be improved in order to strengthen the independence of the work of the Commission. I am particularly pleased that the applicant accepted the proposal from the debate of the working bodies and speakers and included among officials, presidents and members of the management of commercial companies in the majority state ownership. It should also be pointed out that the more clearly defined provisions concerning the receipt of compensation for other officials' operations are that, at the head of the elected membership of supervisory committees, the ownership of units of local and regional self-government is equated with a ban at national level. In the light of the Commission's decision on conflict of interest, it is clearly regulated, and the Commission is a permanent body independently and independently in carrying out the tasks prescribed by law. In addition, the final proposal proposes a security check on the members of the commission. I believe that a solution has been found to determine the coefficients for the president's salaries and members of the commission at the height of the Vice-President's salary and members of the State Election Commission. The proposed provisions on the position and composition of the commission, the competence of the commission, the selection of the president and the members of the committee, the conditions for the selection of the president and the members of the committee are removed by removing possible forms of influence on the commission. In addition, the final proposal for a law is more precise to regulate violations of laws and sanctions that may be imposed for a particular type of infringement. Cases of criminal liability of legal persons are proposed. In view of the above, and the fact that the applicant evaluated the comments made in the debate and incorporated them into the text of the final proposal of the law, I will personally support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67911	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we intend to end this agenda tonight. But there are 12 other MPs and MPs here, so here's only for orientation. It's Mrs. Milanka Opačić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67912	Thank you, Mr. President. When I read this law, I must admit that I was wondering if someone got worse when they wrote this law. Then I came here to the hall, so I heard it was a condition for the European Union, and then we heard others say it was not a condition for the European Union. Now I have to admit, I don't know. If this type of law is a condition for closing chapters and entering the European Union, then Mr Minister, I am truly sorry that we will enter the European Union with our heads and our backs bent. I would be much happier to enter the European Union with our heads up and to protect our own state and to protect our institutions of statehood. This law is turning Croatia into something completely different. Why is this so controversial for us? Not because every one of us is hiding something. Many of us have been in politics for a long time, many of us have been examined by the public long ago, and we and many of our services, so we have nothing to hide. But the problem is that this law opens up the possibility of many manipulations and does not stop what is the real problem of conflict of interest. It is clear to me that we have obviously paid the price of what has been happening in Croatia over the past year, year and a half. But all that came out, which is part of criminal persecution, not conflict of interest, but prosecution is something that happened in the executive office, in public enterprises, not here in Parliament, not in the Constitutional Court, not in the office of the president of the state. And all of us are put together with this law of heavy criminals. That's how I experienced that law. Because if one team of five is given the authority to enter our apartments, so the police don't have that authority without a court order, and we're giving authority to five people to enter our apartments and to count whether we've reported every painting or not. That's terrible. Where are the human rights here? What is this? We're also witnessing that we have institutions that leak everything, leaks information, parts of some research, from the State's Attorney's Office, and every day we read it in the papers. And tell me, where's the guarantee that all of this power of this five, that everything that they're about to say is snooping around our bank accounts, I don't know by what, won't be exploited just like it was exploited today for some of these lawsuits? How are we going to monitor this five-way, independent thing, when we these institutions that come to us with a little bit of a report can't keep us under control, but every day we read release transcripts and we don't know what's true, what's not true. But it's contaminating political space. You've opened something else here, and it's that based on that, it's been fine with this, anonymous reports can be conducted by an investigation. Do you know? Yeah, yeah, here's the little door open. This means that we will have another mechanism for contaminating political space, and we are in the interest of really preventing conflict of interest, not contaminating political space. There's no guarantee this won't happen, and the space is terribly open. I don't think you were here when my colleague Ingrid asked you a question, so I'm going to ask you one more time, please answer that in the final word. So in Article 13, you said that there was no conflict of interest when agricultural activity was carried out. Now we ask you to answer whether Minister Cobankovic, Minister Pankretic, who we all know has certain agricultural activities and is receiving incentives from the state budget, whether these people are in conflict of interest or not? They're not in a conflict of interest here, but I'm asking you to say whether or not they are? Another thing you didn't do. Here, my colleague Markovanovic spoke about how Europe has much stricter laws. There is, there is, on what is a real conflict of interest, which is when someone who has a company, who is a private entrepreneur, enters the government, doesn't have those half-department solutions that you've put here now, is given management rights to some law firm or someone else, and you've left room again that they can't just deal with the ministry where they're headed, but they can deal with everyone else. Do you know how it was solved out there? So when you enter the government, you have to decide or you'll only do business on the market, but you can't do business in any competition that's financed from the state budget. It's the only way, so one very clean solution. Whoever decides to enter politics, you've all said here, works for public good. But then he knows what's wrong with you, then your company can only function on the market, and that's not controversial. But everything that's funded in any kind of competition from the state budget, it can't, you can't write it this selectively. That's why we've been telling you all day that this law is a horror one, because you've left the peach again for those who really are in conflict of interest and who often commits a crime. So they can still do business and do business with the state budget, that's just not in my ministry. And in others, I can. And all of us who can't do anything, because we don't have any conflict of interest, we can't please anyone. What am I going to guess? Who should I guess? With what? With these papers? What can I do for him? All of us, what counterpart Pusic said, I'm not sure if this is a body of political persecution, or a body to prevent conflicts of interest. Furthermore, there has been a lot of talk here about how members of this, the five should therefore be not party to how it is one guarantee of quality, good work, moral work. My people, we're not in this, I think it's this call right now, we had a president who was independent, the woman didn't belong to any political party, and the woman ended up in prison, and the woman has a judicial verdict. So tell me, what is the guarantee, independent people who are impartial, what guarantee is that? It's not a guarantee. Some of my colleagues here have just said if this law has to be passed for the sake of the European Union, as it is, then perhaps we should take members from the European Union to be those five members, so that they can monitor us. I see that there are some solutions here that are close, for example. We have neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, but they have a European governor there, who has so far kicked several MPs out of their parliament because of a conflict of interest, regardless of what the citizens have chosen for them, voted for them, or what the citizens have chosen. Okay, maybe we're going that way. Let us, too, instead of these five, not put our people on, let us put people from the European Union, so let them throw us out of the Croatian Parliament this way when they judge that we are in conflict of interest. Then where is the Croatian state? Then where's our pride? So for 20 years, we've been building this country to now, because of someone who pointed our finger and said it had to be, to tear down their own foundations. I'm having a really hard time dealing with it, believe me. So in the end, I'd just like to say that the whole law is really bad, that it opens up a lot of room for manipulation, and what I've just said in a few of these things doesn't create conditions for stopping a real conflict of interest. You have still left room where money can be taken, and everything else you have opened a witch hunt and opened another space to contaminate the political scene in Croatia. It's bad believe me for you, and for us, for everyone in politics, because so far we've contaminated that space and made it truly despised by the citizens. Do we still have to work on it? Morales, honesty, honor in politics today must be built differently, not with such laws that we tear down our own foundations of statehood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67913	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67914	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So says the proverb itself if you don't know what it's all about, just listen to whoever's talking, he'll tell you best about himself and what's hurting him. I've been listening here and I've heard some really dramatic speeches, and it's been here and the desperate speech, and so on, and I'll talk about it later. Well, I'm sure we all agree that it's very important to prevent conflicts of interest in which, unfortunately, officials are often found because we know that conflict of interest is a Swedish table for corruption. And that's basically why it's very important to prevent it. And that is why the system needs to be set up so that effective control mechanisms identify any conflict of interest and any corruption. And that's what's most important. And it's about to be the job of that depoliticized but professional body of the Commission on the decision of conflict of interest. And now I really don't see why so much fear, why so much fear of this commission if it's not only fear of it so that it's been made public here, but it's said that this parliamentary majority will be in a position to choose these people independent of that commission. And only if it's a mistrust as to what it won't be by consensus or by a two-thirds majority. Other than that, I don't see why he's afraid. The same law provides that this body should submit a yearly report to this Parliament on its work. But I also believe that the amendment will regulate that and the rules of the body's work will prescribe everything where there are now fears of individual officials here that there will be no abuses of certain abuses against them and no one can throw anyone out of the House, and at least that commission. I don't know where it says he can get kicked out of Parliament. It can be called morally publicly, it's a moral question, it can still be done by anyone today. But I really don't see what that body is called a para-judicial body, so they say it's turning into a pursuit of political rivals. I don't know what it can be read from here because you know those who really have everything entered into the property cards transparently, and if it's all right with some truth, they really don't have to be afraid of that body. But those of you who don't know what's going to blur it out right now, but there's a problem because I don't know if there's enough time, whether that's enough time, so that that body doesn't really figure out something that could get foggy by now. Surely this Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has been changed several times. And it's really in the best of faith. Since 2003, I think it's been changed here about six times and in the best faith to prevent this conflict of interest and to be transparent, etc. And there was one measure that I welcome, and it was that no longer on the boards of directors who were to oversee the work of certain companies, companies, and unfortunately they had no control over anything, but they were very often in conflict of interest, or they favored certain structures, and I have to tell my colleagues from the SDP, I will remind you in your time, and you know that because you are sitting there and some of you were sitting on those boards and the boards of directors. So some even in six and ten and received a neat fee from each of these companies. And that was... Yeah, right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well it was even published media we have even, I mean it's nothing and it even at the time of privatisation was. So that's what's even been done by these amendments to this law. It is now practically behind us and should turn to the future regardless of perhaps such a future does not go hand in hand to individuals because it is precisely that professional body that will have insight into all the data sources that we enter into the property card. And there's even the bank accounts. So why the fear so much of those bank accounts? Here, you have time to clean up more quickly what to do until that body is established here and you won't have any worries or problems. If that's not the point, I repeat again, that you're afraid that this very assembly of Parliament will not choose people, and it normally says in the law that these are people who for at least five years are not related to any political option, that these are people of some profession, quality people, and in advance you people who are elected are in fact condemning, declaring some I would tell terrorists or how you have called them all here that they will be persecutors I don't know who and what. They will, they will be persecutors of those in conflict of interest. And that's a fact. And you will be persecuted. And you shouldn't be afraid of it now because yesterday you escaped from the assembly when it was supposed to be placed on the agenda, today you're the most eloquent here. Normally, clearly you've already said why a few times, you said it openly. The thing is, because you would like to have you pick these people, and not that, in fact, this assembly of Parliament chooses them then there would be no such problem nor such dramaturgy here that repeats itself about these regulations. That is why I am surprised by this play by the SDP that is fighting all the forces of one European law in some way and closing this Chapter 23 because I do not believe that you are the great advocates of social rights, democratic freedoms, workers' rights, etc., that you are afraid to look at your property cards and simply see whether there is anything transparent or whether you are against Croatia's entry into the EU? But then it should be said clearly and loudly here, and it does not hide behind that Croatia must be bowed down so that I simply do not know that you consider it embarrassing, and then run out and say, "We do not trust you what kind of people you will choose in this commission, you will persecute us" etc., etc. Why, if you don't believe us, why should we trust you? Why should these people be chosen from you by those who could then pursue and not be persecutors? So here's why I advise you to squeeze your teeth and vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67915	Correction by Mrs Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67916	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67917	I've seen two. Here you go, Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67918	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect that SDP officials and ministers, sitting on several supervisory boards, were compensated. It just wasn't possible. In 1998, therefore, when HDZ had a half majority in the Croatian Parliament, a new Law on the Rights and Obligations of State officials was adopted where it was forbidden for state officials to be on the supervisory boards of private companies, and that if they are members of supervisory boards in some companies where the state has most of them cannot receive compensation. Thus, in 2000 they could not receive. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67919	We have a replica of Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67920	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Kunst, I will agree with you, and we must repeatedly repeat that the purpose of this law and the intention to act in the conduct of state officials is to act with honor, honesty, responsibility and conscience, impartially, to show our own credibility, as well as the credibility of the duties entrusted to this body. The goal is also to prevent can be important, so here we must also say those illegalities that might occur in the conduct of such duties. But I also agree with you when you say that we have approached the criteria and parameters already achieved by EU members. But my colleague Kunst also understands when you're talking about the roots of fear, and I'm only going to reach out to your labs, so it's not the devil that anyone's afraid because he lied about entering the true and accurate data into the property card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67921	Mr. Kunst's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67922	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ned, you've actually detected the problem. Well, it's not any fears, it's one play of opportunity that needs to be accepted and, unfortunately, it has to be involved, there's no other. This is a play and fear of exactly who those 5 people will be, because you've seen signs in speeches if we could come to 2/3 and two-thirds of the bar is lying around those five people, then we could already talk about that law. But if that's not there, then if you go half way back, then we can't. So that's quite clear. But the fact is the same, ma'am, I'll take out tomorrow since the archives are always neatly complex so I'll give you a list to see from the SDP who are the people in ten, the twelve supervisory committees who sat and sat in the companies that went bankrupt, where the workers had to pay but were paid neatly to the members of the supervisory board.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67923	Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67924	My colleagues and colleagues, when some law changes every but every year as it is about this law that is re-changed after 7 months and comes to this Assembly, then it is obviously two possible things. Either the matter regulated by that law is not wanted and will not be solved or not known. What's wrong with this case? What makes this law and how credible are the arguments cited as the reasons for the adoption of this law? Today we had the opportunity to hear on the Committee on the Constitution and the Businessmantra that we have passed and accepted all the laws in this House that they are European and European coordination does not actually stand. The President of the National Committee has made very convincing arguments that the closure of Chapter 23 or the writing of the report cannot be related to the adoption and adoption of this law, so that the haste to put on the agenda a proposal for this law, which clearly has many recommendations, does not have its real basis in the EU's request or in the conclusion of Chapter 23, but is about something else. What is proposed in the law, and what is allegedly the consequence of the agreement with EU representatives and European legislation, is not at the same time the subject of European legislation here, I think of the countries of old Europe or the EU. Why not? I would say primarily because Europe did not have an encounter with the phenomenon that we have faced and which we in Parliament do not want to talk too much about, and I think it is correct simply because it is something that should be dealt with primarily in the trial. I think that the appearance of a Croatian Bocacio man who is obviously if all these accusations that have their real basis in investigations being conducted in Croatia, how accurate they are, will show where so much panic and the need to produce something like this bill is. It's inconceivable that for six or seven years, we've had a person who could buy and get armored cars for millions of dollars that nobody knows anything about. It was unimaginable to collect wealth, paintings, art, handicrafts, etc. and that nothing is known about it, and even if a question were raised on the Committee for the Conflict of Interest of the One whom we had to find out, of course, that there was no such conflict of interest. Well, it is natural that in such a political practice Europe detests and Europe cannot accept this impotence in solving such drastic examples, harsh examples of conflict of interest. If that's the case, then it's always right and logical to conclude that with the rest of the body, it's even worse. Is this law a real contribution to the fight against corruption? There's not a single argument to go along with it and say that it will prevent more corruption than the laws we've had so far or the solution we've known so far. On the contrary, it is largely contaminated on the one hand by the need for pre-election demagogy and on the other hand by an unskilled attempt to manipulate, if you want even Europe to prove our commitment to make a significant step in this regard. The hypertrophy of the law, the hypertrophy of commissions is always a sign of impotence and I join the the thesis of colleague Anticevic-Marinović that actually the adoption of this law is a kind of capitulation or recognition of our impotence, above all in the sphere of politics and political will that serious corrupt problems and problems related to conflict of interest are indeed resolved in a legitimate way. They are indeed a recognition that we do not trust any of our institutions, nor the courts, nor the prosecution, nor the BIAK, nor the DORH, nor the police, nor any authority whose task is precisely to sanction the criminal activities of individuals acting in public functions under Croatian laws. But it is also a fact that this law, I cannot categorically claim that it has been written without good intentions when it comes to assembling this commission, can indeed and that is enough reason to be very skeptical, to serve for manipulative purposes. The arguments for this apprehension lie in the fact that this commission is elected for 5 years, that the commission foresees, its choice by simple majority, so the majority of the commission of 5 people is chosen and that the powers given and the powers that this commission has are indeed exceeded by regular courts in Croatia, but they exceed the authority of some other institutions such as the state's attorney or police. This parajudicial body also receives criminal powers. He'll say where the criminal is coming from, yes, if there's more punishment for a politician than to be publicly diaphragmed and disqualified and disabled by taking what is his tool, and that's his honesty and honesty, because without it it it's unimaginable to act as a public function. Today, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure was attended by a professor, I think that constitutional law, which warned of the possibility of the incriminated and accused by the commission and the differentiated official, such as a member of the Government, being contacted by the Administrative Court and requesting the court's words on the founding of the indictment incriminating him. Within 60 days, the court shall be made clear. What will the Parliament do, say, if it is a government official, which will be done by the Parliament in those 60 days, whether to initiate the procedure, what will be the prime minister and what will happen theoretically if the Administrative Court determines that it is actually a meal and a damage that has been done unfairly to a man who behaves such a duty. This is just one example, I'm not a lawyer, one of the examples that speaks of how it is possible to abuse and how difficult it is to implement the provisions of the law proposed here. The other thing I'd like to say is, I'm running out of time, which was never mentioned here. You know, if it's not a paradic body of any kind, I wouldn't say constitutional law, there's no one professional in determining that the chairman of the commission has to be a lawyer. It's discrimination under professional duty, like a professor of ethics at the Faculty of Philosophy or some other honest and honorable person who doesn't necessarily have to be a lawyer. We must have lawyers in the service who will serve the commission, but professionally it should not be a lawyer. Let me conclude because time is up, gentlemen, let's turn to changing political practice and stop believing that by adding constantly new, new and new laws and regulations, we will change the world we live in. It's just not possible. It is up to us in politics to change the political paradigm, and then the laws themselves will lie on fertile soil and produce the effect we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67925	We have one replica. Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67926	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Vidovic, you spoke of a conflict of interest in the head, and also of the fact that the commission, the existing Committee for Conflict of Interest, did not discuss such a conflict of interest. So is it not essentially a regret of sin, an attempt to pay the price, in this way to choose the commission of course according to the measures of the ruling, and the officials respond to the citizens, they have political responsibility to the citizens, and we also all have legal responsibility to the bodies or institutions. However, this commission seems to me to be actually predicated that people who will be elected will already be more likely to conflict of interest. Aren't those dangerous premises that are possible with a law like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67927	Answer Mr Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67928	And this is the last thing you say and not even those five honest people in the face of us all should be suspicious without being mentioned in a sentence like those who must also be subject to conflict of interest, and there is no such thing in this bill. When it comes to repenting of sins, you know there are fairer ones, I am neither here nor a counselor nor paid for it, nor should I say it. There's a way much better for sins to repent. I was a participant in the creation of a political party in this country that inherited part of the political heritage. It came honestly before the people, and said, "We apologize, folks, this is a historic declaration. We apologize for the sins that have been committed." Take this step, apologize to the citizens of Croatia for the opportunity and for what the HDZ has done and for the merits to be performed. But if you'll excuse me, apologize for the theft of the '90s, apologize for what's coming out now. It's the only way to go straight to the citizens and ask for trust. The only way. Believe everything else is blurry. By listening to these Kunstow stories, it leads you to ruin. It gives you no chance at, in front of the citizens of this country. Don't underestimate them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67929	It's Mr. Agent Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67930	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to start by going through this law well and that from the very beginning to the end, it means from the assessment of the situation in the laws of a lot of illogicality. Even what counterpart Milanovic said is slowly intruding into the Constitution, a couple of bodies are being created. But most of all that actually hits me personally is that one part of it degrades the government officials. I'm saying this and I'm going to give this short speech from a point of view, actually from my position as a younger generation, the first term of office in the Parliament. And then I read this bill. At first, I was really intrigued that the list of officials, that it really was missing inside, let's say, the prime minister's advisors, and now we have a new advisor who came from a company that got with the state probably almost all the big jobs in the IT sector. Three months ago there was a round table held by the Institute of Public Finance, the Institute of International Relations, and there was one figure that one scientist had to really look at how many state secretaries at this point in time receive some more subsidies and how many state secretaries, for example, from the Ministry of Agriculture have some agricultural business still at home and some land. It is simply not said in Croatia, it does not say. And what was most, whatever I read further, I got the impression, so I'm talking about the impression that officials are destined for corruption, that they're determined to steal, they have sticky fingers, and that right now we need a law that's gonna stop us from doing it because as it says, we're a high-risk group vulnerable to corruption, so we need a high moral commission because here we are, I guess I'm talking as a parliamentary representative, so young from the first term. We're probably low morale. And that's what affects me in the assessment of the situation and in this law, that we are a high-risk group vulnerable to corruption. Now, I don't need a law that's a moral compass, that prescribes moral questions. I don't need it because I know I won't do what it says in article 7 of this law. So I will not receive and demand benefit, I will not exercise or gain the right in the event that the principle of equality is violated. I will not receive additional fees, I will not seek and accept or receive value for voting services, I will not promise jobs and will not promise jobs. Why? Because it's my moral framework and the result of my education. I don't need it as an official who has therefore entered this world in the first term to be told why I can't do what is absolutely immoral and is intruding but in itself into corruption. This is corruption! It's corruption! And I don't need this law. You can't do that. That's what you go to jail for. On the other hand, who needs an obvious moral compass? When I look, he wrote the law, so HDZ. It's clear to me, too, when I'm reading the paper today and I'm reading these vomits from newspapers about what's been going on in this country for years to say two words to Ivo Sanader, for example, it's clear to me when HDZ's turned behind their backs and looked at the last six years, seven, that you understand why this law came out. Well, the papers are full of it. What an easy way to write about it. He washed a hundred million kunas, this guy charged six million, charged two million. He got 200 million, this one pulled two million euros, this five million euros. And I understand that then you went to write a law like this, but don't put me in the same basket. And that's good fellow Dragovan said we weren't all the same, I wasn't dancing with Eve Sanader, I wasn't clapping at him here and worshiping him as a beloved leader, and I wasn't taking part in his bastards. And that's why I'm telling you, we're not the same. I don't really need this kind of thing. I'm not doing immoral things. I'm not gonna deal with corruption. It's easier to rename this law into an unaccountable bill to prevent HDZ's depravity. Or make internal rules for the behaviour of your officials because that's exactly what we're not all the same, and the least we can sell here is the story that it's because of the European Union. But I also have a few things I'm interested in. On employment, for example, what happens when we have someone who is, for example, the head of HZZO who works with all hospitals, who works with all pharmaceutical firms. What he's going to do for a year is, for example, a year after the term of office, what he's going to be unemployed for a year. The other thing I'm interested in is what my colleague Milanovic said and a few people here are already acting on public duty in the House to put mayors and mayors on ice. If there is a question of public and private conflict, there are no issues of public conflict. We can't talk about that. But if we're going to pull that together, let's just push it now, then there's nothing to say, for example, HDZ in the budget to give anything, to negotiate with its coalition partners and give them concessions in the budget because it's the same story. Public public conflict of interest. So, that's got to be settled. Now we have to apply some laws to get rid of it. Third matter commission and last. We choose them. They're reporting to us, but they're immeasurable, actually. Right? Even if they're doing irregularities. That's very, very interesting. We choose them for five years according to the principle of honesty, which once again bothered me highly morally. What do I do as an official? Low morals. And that's a serious problem for me. The competencies when I look at it were also brilliant that the commission would draw up guidelines to prevent conflicts of interest, so corruption. So we're going to get a little rulebook like that, according to Article 18 of the Law, now someone's coming to the young HDZ official puts 20,000 euros on the table, he pulls out a rulebook and says, "Yeah, I have to refuse such an offer, then I have to determine the identity of that person, so I have to report it, etc. I mean, that's funny. I already said that, so you'd better make an internal application for the party rules, don't put us all in the same basket. Then comes the description of the members of the commission. So a member must be, possessing high moral qualities, must be a lawyer, my same question as everywhere why does he have to be a lawyer? And then there goes that interesting thing, I can dig, let's say by quotes, I can dig through me, I can dig through you, by your brothers, by your sisters, by your parents, by all the people who are found to be connected to you in some way. But on the other hand, look at the little law, when we choose members of the commission, it doesn't say anywhere except that it can't be a party member for at least five years, it doesn't say anywhere that it doesn't have to be a brother, a sister, a son, a state official's grandson. So it could be the closest relatives of Jadranka Kosor, perhaps, because it's not prescribed. But it is prescribed that we can walk throughout our genealogy. And that's what I resent. I was deeply affected by this law from the impression he left. About how these officials are a high-risk group, corrupt, and we need a law like this to stop us from doing anything. Well, that's a matter of the State's Attorney's Office, and the police, if it's already big thefts. And finally, I tell you again, this is a bad bill, on a quick conclusion, in which a lot of problems have been opened around a qualified majority, which a lot of problems opens up at a moral level, which creates this commission in which, to be understood, a member of the commission can be unjustly condemned because he's made a bastard, but he stays in the commission until there's a judgment, right? And can do irregularities further. These are the things that leave the great holes, gentlemen. And this message that's being sent is scary for someone who comes after me. Well, it is likely that both SDP and HDZ and all parties will have new, younger people in the next elections for the Parliament, who enter into a system in which the law is worth that and the priorities are all a highly endangered group morally with sticky fingers. And that's why this law is problematic, and I urge you once again to think very carefully about the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67931	My colleague, you've listed a few terms here that you haven't all. It's okay. But you're not a cop, you're not a state's attorney, you're not a judge, and you've been acting like that in your debate. It's like you took all those three properties with you. And Mr. Representative, if I may. ... We do. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, no one got the word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, Mrs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović, and Mr. Skaričić have replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67932	Here's a colleague specifically apostrophe of the article... which, contrary to the provisions of this Act, is offered a gift or any other benefit related to the conduct of a public duty, are obliged to report it to the competent authorities. [[Because of the announcement, the speaker does not understand.]] Why is that when it's normally mandatory under the general law, by the basics of our law? It's taking and giving bribes. And in practice you know what that might look like? The one who received this gift, therefore, received a bribe in four eyes, and no one will know about it, and the one who is honest, and who will report it that the corrupter tried to bribe him, he will throw himself away with many inconveniences, for this conscious official, who will report it, will come to his eyes with this corrupter, and will say no, I did not offer him anything, but he asked me to do so, and I did not want to give it to him. There are cases like this, unfortunately. And that's why it's good, there are a lot of colleagues here, and not only from the SDP club, but others have warned that the law legalizes the equivalent behaviours that are at the beginning of conflict of interest. We've already spoken to these plantations and these dignitaries, and farmers, who are allowed to do so, and here it's very questionable what will happen to those people who keep an eye on every provision of the law? They can be found in a very, very awkward, mildly speaking, situation. As it is, therefore, Minister Cobankovic is not in conflict of interest, but he is in conflict of interest to Ronko who reported his illness.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67933	And another replica, Mr. Representative Ivan Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67934	Comrade Mondekar, I believe that you think that most people, and you, too, and most of us have our morals and our conscience, and our education, and as far as it goes, you shouldn't have any law, no criminal law, no crimes, no conflict of interest. However, the fact is also necessary because we see that all of this is being broken in certain situations when people find themselves. But what I find surprising to me is that when you talk like there's one group of people, it can even be party-defined, like it's immune to all of that, and the culprits are always on the other side. Well, I'm surprised, because when people put themselves on the scale of a matter of weight, you're on the scale of the Bible, and you're found lying. It has nothing to do with political parties or other beliefs. It just can't be defined that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67935	Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67936	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is today's speech on this Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, unfortunately, was the mention of states such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, such as Kosovo and other countries. We are making this law for the Republic of Croatia, we simply have to do it because on the ground, it is pointed to these problems, and by adopting the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and commission on my humble... It's a reference to the officials that they can't, that they can't, that they can't. [[You don't understand.]] And then if they follow that law, the less work they'll have to do, the less work Karamarko will have to do. We can say today it was, whether it was a crisis situation in the Republic of Croatia, so it is passed, that this law will contaminate the political scene of Croatia, that it is not so, and no one has come down and said a few words about the real situation on the ground. There was no boredom or in a few cases there was someone declared to be in conflict of interest, and it really wasn't. We have at local level such things that we need two of these laws and two commissions to prevent it. Reading Article 18. ...is with the town of Novi Gradishko where the mayor did not have these 0.5, but he is 100% the owner of one company and mayor. His deputy director and his company where he owns 100%. And you know what these accounts look like when he sends you a gas distribution company for the needs of the city and the citizens, you get the mayor's name on the gas bill, and you get the mayor's seat right here. Or what it looks like to you when a company that is 100% owned by the mayor, when its company is managed by its company, means its deputy who works for the city's needs. Perhaps it is far better to point out this law to these people, to point out what must not be allowed than to be really haunted by the BOOK tomorrow, or to have problems with the law. I don't see any reason to be afraid to sign up for a property card. So whoever wants to deal with politics has to make a transparent statement or public duties, he has to say it in a transparent manner, I have that, that and that, and in 4, in 8 or more years, I've gotten that, that and that. I certainly don't see any reason to be afraid and my colleague just said I didn't, I didn't. Neither am I, and I'm not afraid of it, but I also support the law. I don't support him because he has, he's pretty sharp. Unfortunately, we make it for us. Unfortunately, unfortunately, we have to prevent that part that is really done on the ground. There is a difference between conflict of interest and crime, but this is the way – conflict of interest is a course towards a particular crime. And if people who are officials who need to work for the common good, if they are shown and get certain sanctions, they will be better off because they will not end up being questioned and not end up behind bars. Today, there was a speech here that this commission would also propose the removal of elected officials. In fact, the commission can suggest, but it can't replace anyone. It is therefore a moral act, as is happening in the Parliament, that one majority of MPs propose to change the government so they fail. So I don't see any reason why... And why is he so cruel, why is he so sharp? Because it applies to people who are who they are. On the ground itself, we see what is happening to us, and I see no reason why it is only the need of the EU, certainly one who has its own companies, one who deals with a particular business should not deal with units of local self-government, or regional or state-owned companies. Either let him do business or let him leave, or do politics. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67937	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67938	Mr. Biljić, I don't know if you're aware that even under the past law, it wasn't allowed for what you suspect? So I don't know what kept you from reporting if you know cases like that? It wasn't allowed to do what you're talking about either. Obviously, either that information was unknown to you or you're not telling the truth, but don't go on the ground, it's enough to read the paper, and you'll see why this law is passed and why it's now "sharier" than it was before. For honest people the edge doesn't matter they won't do unwitting things and I'd say unauthorized things no matter what the law was. And those who are criminals, those who take advantage of their position in some way, will not be prevented by any law from doing so anymore. They need services to do their job and then there won't be any problem. Unfortunately, this law is not to allow you to be on the ground as you say not to do non-transparent things but to wash away the HDZ criminal few people who have now been in the spotlight for the past year in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67939	Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67940	You're the one who messed up the pots. The ones you're talking about are already the subject of the UskoK, they're the subject of Karamark's people, and what we're talking about today is one possibility of preventing people from coming to that level. It means, through this commission, that through this law, people are given to be channeled, told what it is they can do, and what it is they can't do. And I know that before the law was allowed. I'm just pointing out for example the man is new, he's the new mayor, maybe he doesn't know what he's doing. He doesn't need it. He'd better be stopped in that area today than arrested tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67941	Madam representative Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67942	Thank you, Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So politics is my job, and that's why, for example, we Parliamentarians don't have a certain working time, we don't have an annual vacation, and it's probably why most people don't even report sick. Politics is an invitation, and if politics is a call then you should live it, prove it daily, confirm it by your own example. Politics is an area of possible achievement of its own ambition, but it must not be an area of its own breakthrough. Citizens expect officials to perform their duties impartially, responsibly, honestly, and honestly. The consequences of the conflict of interest in the exercise of public duties condition a lack of citizens' confidence in public institutions and consequently a weak response to the elections. So they condition a high electoral abstinence. On the other hand, I hope it is not an inappropriate question to how much citizens themselves are responsible for this situation. That's where I think of those who choose officials based on next thought. He was capable of creating himself, so he would know how to create us. So he's capable of the man who acquired the property he has. The capacity in Croatia is exactly proportional to the amount of property acquired. Is not such a public opinion, therefore, such a public attitude a fertile ground for the unethical and immoral conduct of public officials. I claim that only by paying a public official to carry out his duty, an official cannot be made rich. And the fact is, however, that a large number of officials have become wealthy, that the public duty has ended with much more property than that duty has begun. It is clear and doubtless that these and such officials, along with their salary, also made other incomes far greater than pay as a reward for the widest benefits they were able to make by performing this very public duty. So those who have become rich in public duty capitalised political power, political influence. And that is why politics or politicians must stop being powerful, politics must stop being an area of personal wealth, political influence must be solely in the function of achieving public interest, and that will only happen when political behaviour or political practice is changed. The people say the opportunity is a thief. I personally don't accept that thesis. How can one situation make an honest man a thief? What kind of honesty can fall on one occasion? The man who took the opportunity wasn't fair. An dishonest man doesn't become honest or you are or you're not. Therefore, public work in Croatia is in these moments in these times infinitely compromised and contaminated. And the question is, can this law that we have before us today and that we are discussing change the situation? In relation to the first reading of this legislative proposal, it has narrowed down to some extent the space of potential conflict of interest, it has provided some tools and mechanisms that will be able to determine the assets at the beginning and at the end of public duty. But not nearly this legal proposal has reached the potential of the ingenuity of an dishonest and immoral man. He can't even jump right for the reason he's here on morale and honesty. It remained in this legislative proposal a series of indiscretions. I'll just list some. For example, how to detect the effect, which is exactly what the most liquid form of property is, so I'm talking about bills whether they're kuna or foreign currency, valuable jewelry papers, so all that's deposited in bank safes, and the bank doesn't know what's in them or can know, nor can it give that information. Furthermore, as it will be controlled whether officials answer truthfully and fully the questions about the property and its origin during their public appearances or in Article 13(5), it is said "In the event that the commission finds that the official performs with public duty and other tasks as a regular and continuing profession, the official will be ordered to stop carrying out that activity". The question arises, and what about the revenues obtained by carrying out that other so-called parallel activity until that moment? This could, in fact, list a number of irregularities in this legislative proposal that will certainly produce a number of problems in its operationalisation. The biggest problem, however, is that the Law on conflict of interest, if accepted and provided that the commission is chosen by the two-thirds majority, will still be in conflict with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67943	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67944	My colleagues Jelas, you as before as well as your colleague Bilnjic spoke about one thing, and this is about the application at the beginning and at the end of the term of office of property. So she wasn't controversial you could write what you wanted in your property card, ours, i.e. All of us. However, what is problematic throughout the story is that you could write that during the term of office you earned millions in assets, in cash, shares of anything and that nothing happened behind it. I believe that this is a fundamental problem and in fact this law that serves to pre-electionally change perception that officials will no longer be able to be as unfair as they have been so far, in fact this perception will not change because simply there are no measures to curb this thing that those who have disproportionate property and profit remain unsanitary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67945	Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67946	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Unlike most predecessors, I will support the final proposal of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, and I will point out that I am not just doing so because the adoption of this law is a prerequisite for meeting the criteria set out in Chapter 23 that we want to close. Namely, this law or the final bill of law in relation to the draft law in the first reading is done in many ways, is respected in the majority of the observations and suggestions made by the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and this law which gives a better framework for the regulation and conduct of public duties is necessary for us officials and all those acting in public responsibilities in the spirit of the provisions of this law, in order to know which situations are not allowed and in order to avoid situations of conflict of private and public. From the main part of today's debates, colleagues and colleagues seem to be passing and referring only to us 153 elected MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, although we all know well that Article 3 of this law is taxing 34 of the duties to which the provisions of this law apply in the first paragraph, and then we have both the second and third paragraphs. And all those who talk about the situation on the ground are right. So, if we start with the president of the Republic of Croatia and end up with the mayors, municipal commissioners and their deputy colleagues, Biljic, some of the other colleagues today spoke about the situation on the ground. As a member of the Committee on Conflict of Interests, I also have knowledge of what the Commission is considering in its cases most of these issues, applications and other relations exactly to the local community, so on the units of local and regional self-government. This law I experience as opposed to colleagues on the left of this assembly has a proactive effect and I look at it in that light, and not just what they insist on their opposition colleagues on, which is on repression. If I have nothing to hide and nothing to hide, and I don't, I'm asking a question from my colleagues and colleagues what we're afraid of. We said we wanted to restore trust in the institutions, that we wanted to restore confidence in politicians. No law can, therefore, restore this trust by any law but only by works, and one of the acts I call upon and my colleagues from the opposition is the adoption of this law. I don't agree with those allegations that have been made today that this law is a moral compass for those who have strayed into politics. As an argument, I again mention all those officials who enter politics at local and regional level through each election cycle and clearly to those officials appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, appointed by the Croatian Parliament. So we always have election cycles, we have changes, we have new people's entrances. And I welcome even though I don't think it should be just the commission's task, this professional commission, the education of officials, I believe that the other institutions in the Republic of Croatia as well as so far as they have done, and the commission's professional service has done so by fulfilling the measures of the action plan, the government's action plan to prevent corruption, and in the past 2010, has conducted education at local and regional levels. So, together with representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Administration, she conducted a systematic education of officials at lower levels. And because of the fact that I am not longer, and all these improvements made by the final bill with the extension of persons falling under the provisions of the law, namely officials, by increasing the number of officials, including representatives, by officials, by officials, directors, directors of ministries, as well as the presidents and members of the company's management in the majority ownership of the state, by reducing the share of shares and ownership stakes in companies, by reducing from 20 to 0.5% so far due to a better system of control of property cards and depolitisation of the commission, I will support this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67947	Thank you. Mrs. Representative Biljana Borzana, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67948	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's unfortunately in the second reading of this law as I expected there were no fundamental changes when we saw what the law was like, we were hoping that maybe something might change a little bit for the better. Unfortunately, here, this is more nomotechnical, there have been nomotechnical changes than essential changes. In fact, I believe that every law should follow the needs of citizens, so it should be, but these needs of citizens are unfortunately often not in the first place. I would say that this law is in fact exclusive to HDZ's need for a pre-election wash, so to leave one impression that something is working on better, that some corrupt politicians will now be prevented from becoming MPs and officials. And I would also say, and I don't think I'm being paranoid, that it's actually one attempt to create a single body that will ensure peace for HDZ representatives in the next term of opposition. I have to say that I personally didn't recognize myself by reading this law, so I'm not afraid that someone is digging into my information about my property, about my husband's property, my entire family, so we don't have any private companies, any stakes, any business with a country like this, like that. But I have to admit, I felt very uncomfortable reading this law because there's one impression that we're all a little bit of a cover-up criminal to say it like that. I'm not afraid to explore any committee, but the practice unfortunately has shown that we have to be afraid. Here it's said several times today that on this side, on the opposition side of the assembly, some kind of paranoid cry comes out that I don't know what's going to happen. I'm sorry, but the practice has shown, here's just for example by colleagues Mrsic and Piculo that nothing can cause a big problem for months to spread that one, that there's a knife above the neck of colleagues who haven't done anything wrong, that criminals, that they're guilty, that they've damaged their city, the state and the like. So, taught by these experiences, of course, we are afraid of commissions that will be voted exclusively by the ruling majority, without the influence of opposition. And that's why we insisted on the 2/3 majority, that at least we have a small impact on deciding who's going to sit in that committee, that it be some common position of ours and that all the doubts and fears of opposition disappear that some politicians will be persecuted solely because they are opposition politicians. Unfortunately, in his opening statement, he said nothing about the commission and this interesting information to be chosen for 5 years. So why still, I was hoping there would be some kind of change in that sense. So we have one year until the end about, if the elections of this term go regularly plus four years of next term, and that's that. So we're covered, if we go to the opposition, our agents, our officials and everyone else is calm. I also didn't understand, the minister says this time the law regulates that public interest is above all else. So I think that's how it's supposed to be so far, and that when we named ours and put MPs on the lists and appointed government officials, we should have thought about it being people. So we need to work at party rehearsals that people who are obviously corrupt, that have some kind of connection to so I say underground, can't come to the Parliament at all or become officials. The individual’s conscience, therefore, is vital, moral, and respect for the law is what each of us should feel within ourselves, and there will certainly be no fear of any commission. So what is said that the commission is an expert body I'm still here to say with all these attempts to calm down by the ruling set that it won't be any trouble, that we can sleep peacefully if we're said clean under the law. But here I'm saying the practice has proved something else and I don't think it's about paranoia. I think that even if it weren't too much to ask in fact for the opposition to go to the lead and if it were said in someone's debate just a technical question then why wasn't it given to the opposition, why wasn't the two-thirds majority involved in the selection of the commission. So, if it's a technical question, then let the opposition come here a little bit to put it that way. According to what it says, officials will need neither the police nor the DORH. We'll have our own commission to introduce order, so to speak, or a committee to train strictness. The body they will have, which is completely unexposed to the public. So, all of us when MPs, officials, we're all under public eye. However, such a body will, in silence and peace away from the eyes of the public, make some decisions about us that the people have chosen and decide on our fates. What I've already mentioned is I think the key question that property card control is actually what's the biggest problem with us and unfortunately it doesn't work right. And I'd say we still have one problem with this bill, and that's a possible check of the bank account. Some have already talked about it here today. So, too much of this law was created exclusively to create some impression, the impression that something's changing now, the impression that it's going to be digging into bank accounts because it probably won't be. I'm telling you again, I'm not interested in that at all. Everyone can look into my bank account, but if it's real and realistic, it's a whole other question. I'd say it's not and it's a clean eye rub. I see that there are doubts in the ruling majority about this law. Today someone in the debate said that there are some things we need to pass out here. I mean, I don't see any reason why we should have something out here, but let's try to make nice arrangements and make a law that will be, to protect the interests of citizens, who will help politicians, officials not to enter into a conflict of interest, a law that we will all support together for the general satisfaction of everyone. This is the sixth amendment to the law. Unfortunately, according to what has been proposed so far, it turns out that we are once again missing a bill that will be a long-term solution and that in some recent future, unfortunately, we will have this law again, that is. work and propose some new solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67949	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which is depicted as a completely new text, rather than improving existing ones, was to remove certain weaknesses in the existing law. The weaknesses of the existing law itself are relatively well described and I do not see a particular problem in that. So, I'd say the diagnosis is well-set, but it seems to me it's the therapy. In fact, the very fact that after certain legal solutions were implemented found that what has been done so far has actually been so many changes that it has not been good but it is necessary to start over to open up a question, a question of competence. So if at some point we can conclude everything we've done so far, it's not right to start over with what kind of guarantee it is, what kind of message is that what we're proposing right now is actually something new and good. I'm always a supporter of improvement step by step. So on this even there is a Japanese organisational philosophy we go to improve what improves can be improved every time in every step, not go back to the beginning and look for new mistakes. Every return to the beginning brings great danger to make greater mistakes and failures. I am particularly concerned with this proposal, Article 13, Article 13, which discusses other tasks of officials in which there is, on the one hand, an extremely rigorous restriction on jobs that officials can still carry out with a regular job. But on the other hand, there is no limit here, so it is extremely liberal when it comes to international projects, projects financed by the European Union, by countries, by countries and international organisations and associations. Well, that is where this law should be the most restrictive, right there should have the most filters, the most attention should be paid to them because there is a danger that the consequences of such double action should be precisely at the expense of the Republic of Croatia and of the public interest. So I see a serious problem above all in Article 13. When it comes to the professional work of the staff that will be members of the commission, let us not interfere or the fact that the work of the commission is not provided nor the means necessary, which will also be a problem. But what may arise as an extremely difficult situation, above all, for officials who will leave office, is the obligation and restriction after the termination of the duties described in Article 20. It is not clear enough in this description what it specifically refers to when the body in which the official has acted is stated. Of course, then it will be possible to interpret the members of the commission in their own way. It can be very narrow, very broadly defined. This is the question at this point when, in particular, it is a matter of parliamentary representatives after the termination of their duties, does this mean that they cannot enter into a working relationship in either of the major institutions. For example, does this mean that a doctor can not work in a private hospital that is financed by the Croatian Health Insurance Office after leaving office. Does that mean that? That's just not clearly defined enough for me from this, and it can cause big doubts in its application. And the question is actually another one that I see as a possible problem, which is sanctions that only the commission says. Should it propose to a certain body the resignation of an official elected in direct elections, mayor, mayor, municipal chief or other official. And he deafens to it, says I've been chosen by voters. It cannot be affected by the commission if such a test is dropped, it has lost its full credibility, at this point a new law must be passed. It's the same danger that we all have to take care of together, when we pass one of these laws. So there are a lot of serious doubts and open questions, through the law itself, I think it would be much better if the existing law had improved, that solutions had been found for the very well-descripted weaknesses arising from the existing law, and that they were gradually eliminated. There's one more question that I find extremely important. Let's just say the question of checking all the data which will be one of the fundamental jobs of the members of this committee. Among other things, the delivery of property cards, which relate to both the property of the spouse and the non-marriage mate. Who will be the one to determine the existence of extramarital companions? So if, on such a fundamental issue of property cards, this whole system falls, then the system is discredited. Therefore, the dangers of precisely such situations require an extremely significant law on political life in Croatia to be defined more precisely. So I will be restrained when it comes to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67951	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67952	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Srb, I wouldn't have reported in these late hours at 19:30 and 25, if you hadn't, for a few, for a line, if you hadn't mentioned it several times in your presentation and claimed that it wasn't the new law that should have been passed, but that the old one had to be improved. Dear Serbs, we are both members of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest, in which I have the best opinion, because we really, I don't mean well, but had good cooperation, so also members of the order, parliamentarians as well as outside members. And we made mostly and mostly unanimous decisions. But it was on these committees that we pointed to the needs of a new law, because this law of 2003, with 6 additions, was no longer easy to follow or follow. I have here the editorial text from the informant, which is very difficult, and this kind of purified treatment. But fellow Serbs, if you had studied this law well, then you could see the exact articles and provisions of the new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest which have solutions that we have in the existing one. So in a certain way he was improved, it is also the minister, if you listened to him in the opening statement on behalf of the promoter said that this law means improving regulation in the conduct of public duties, it is on the one hand. And on the other hand, the newspapers that we've brought out are newspapers that we've decided as a government and as a proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67953	Replication response, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67954	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, one of the fundamental problems that I have seen in the functioning of the Committee on Conflict of Interest was the reporting of various situations of possible crime which are not at all a problem of conflict of interest, but possible crimes. So something that should be dealt with by other judicial bodies. And that's one problem. Another major problem was ineffectiveness in sanctioning. In fact, there are even more radical sanctions here, which I absolutely agree with. But there is a danger because of the way the powers of the commission are defined and the legal possibilities of implementation of the same, that the entire system be discredited the moment it fails to impose the sanctions it prescribes. At that moment, everything will fall into the water together, and it will actually be concluded that the system is ineffective and that it needs to be rebuilt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67955	Final draft law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, P.Z. No. 703., Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The review of the amendment has been submitted to you on benches, please the proposing representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Minister of Justice, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic. First, the Club of HNS HSU Representatives, in Article 3 of Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67956	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67957	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Second, the SDP Representatives Club, as referred to in Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67958	We cannot accept this amendment because Article 8 paragraph 14 states that we agree that our accounts listed in the property cards are checked for the purpose of synchronising the data to see if they are true. If we accepted such an expression, paragraph 14. then we would disable a regular check of what we wrote in the property cards, because we could only check if the procedure occurred. And we need to do a regular check on what we put in the card, whether it fits the truth. That's why we don't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67959	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept in Article 8 paragraph 14? Please raise your hand. Thanks, he didn't get the necessary majority. 3. Amendment of Agent Ana Lovrin to Article 20(5)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67960	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67961	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 4. The HDZ representative club has been withdrawn. 5. A Club of Independent Representatives and SDSS Representatives shall be held in accordance with Article 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67962	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67963	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 6 of Ms. Anne Lovrin to Article 31, withdrawn. 7th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the HNS and HSU Representatives Club and the IDS Representatives Club, as referred to in Article 31(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67964	We cannot accept this amendment because the issue of a two-thirds majority in decision-making is precisely regulated by the Constitution, particularly regarding issues of national minorities, particularly on border changes, the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court, at the end of the conclusion of certain interstate agreements, the procedure of making the Constitution itself, the amendment of the Constitution, it is all precisely prescribed by the Constitution when two-thirds can make decisions, so we cannot accept this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67965	In the name of the Club Mrs. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67966	Mr. Minister, this is really about a law that determines human rights but determines both the way and the partial work of state bodies, so we had a lot of basics in accordance with the Constitution to bring this to the two-thirds majority. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67967	Thank you. Since three clubs have proposed this amendment here, I would ask that we vote exclusively for this amendment electronically, so let's get involved, otherwise the Government does not accept this amendment. So we're voting on the amendment. Whoever's in favour will vote for, who's against, is against. The result? This amendment has not been accepted. 40 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 73 against. The 8th Amendment of Agent Anne Lovrin? ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We are done with this amendment. We can't open a debate right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67968	Mr. President. I'm looking on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's 10-minute break for the club meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67969	For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67970	It is precisely because you expressed a very clear political stance on this amendment by the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67971	I noted in the vote that since the three clubs had asked for it to be voted by electronic means and it was voted on. I don't see what the problem is. Here you go, ma'am. ... Ten minutes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This way at 12.40. Resume session. Ten-minute break. Mr. SDSS, too. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, she's finished a break of 10 minutes, so I'd like to ask for a representative of the HNS Club who's been looking for others, so, Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67973	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In view of the fact that Article 31(1) lays down the way in which the presidents and members of the committee are elected, it is clear that because of the government's negative position, the vote in parliament has shown that the parliamentary majority's position to lower the expected standard that should have been ensured by the adoption of a new law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. We hold this inadmissible approach because in this way all those efforts of the motionors and all those who participated in the drafting of this law,... Its amendments, but also through all the political messages spoken by the government, the ministries and parliamentarians and the public are disabling because, in fact, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is turning into a law on the harassment of the current political majority, the future political majority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not a good message because by installing such a solution you show an absolute lack of understanding of the need to raise democratic standards, and we will not allow you to harass those who will lead Croatia instead of you who brought it where it is. We're definitely going to be left behind from your circus that you're working here and we don't want to be part of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67974	On behalf of the SDP, Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67975	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It would be good to wait perhaps for a statement from the minister about this second amendment, however, since the first one was not accepted by the 2/3 majority I suppose there will be no second because there is no logic. So we have put forth a kind of effort here, we have proposed one solution because we believe that this conflict of interest body has powers that are greater than both the Ministry of Interior and the State's Attorney's office at present. So to such a single body, it should still be chosen in this room by 2/3 of the majority so that we can choose as many members as possible with greater consensus as possible who have such powers. Unfortunately, and I'm sorry you didn't accept the solution. So this commission that has powers that, once again I repeat, there are no police or the State's Attorney's office you will choose by your will, you will choose people who will obviously do not protect conflicts of interest but something else. Secondly, it should be said that this law still leaves the possibility of conflicts of interest among those who are in conflict of interest. It's not us here in the Parliament, it's not the president of the state or the Constitutional Court or the child's attorney, but it's the people in the executive power. They were still left with the possibility that if they own their companies they would deal with all ministries except their ministries. Yesterday, we said, for agricultural incentives, you are not in conflict of interest, so I want to know how the ministers and Cobanković and Pankretic, but also many others, will be in the government and will not be in conflict of interest because this law protected them, but they receive incentives and funds from the state budget. Therefore, the possibility of this commission of conflict of interest is also left to demand the shift and discrediting of one part of the people. With full right we suspect that this will be for the purpose of not protecting against conflicts of interest but for the purpose of certain political discrediting, I will not say persecution. Just because of what I said, this is just one small segment of what we discussed yesterday. Because of these powers that this body has, we have asked that this body is elected here in this House 2/3 of the majority that you do not agree to. And it opens up space to suspect that this is not a body to prevent conflicts of interest, but a body to pursue political persecution. And finally, in the 1990s, in this house, it was said that there was only God above the Parliament, and it seems to me that now that you pass this law above the Parliament we put the Committee of Conflict of Interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67976	Thank you. We have Mr. Representative and Vice President Vladimir Seks from the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67977	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The SDP and HNS Representatives' Club's amendment aims to ensure that the election of presidents and members of this Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is carried out by a 2/3 majority. This is the meaning of the amendment of the SDP, HNS, HSU Club. Why can't that amendment be accepted? Because it prevents the Croatian Constitution, because it prevents the Croatian Constitution. The Croatian Constitution is taxing seven cases where decisions are made by 2/3 of the majority. I will quote all these decisions made by the Croatian Parliament to the 2/3 majority. Beyond these cases, there is no decision of 2/3 to the majority. These are: Article 83. The Constitution of laws governing the rights of national minorities brings the Croatian Parliament 2/3 to the majority of all MPs, that is, Article 8. The constitution where 2/3 of the Croatian Parliament decides to change borders. This is Article 105. The Constitution establishing the responsibility of the President of the Republic is Article 126. The Constitution where the choice of judges is made by a 2/3 majority, that is Article 140(2). The constitution in which interstate contracts given powers under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are concluded is confirmed in the Croatian Assembly 2/3 of the majority. This is Article 142. The constitution, which decides on the association of the Republic of Croatia with other countries, is 2/3 of the majority. And that's finally Article 149. The Constitution where the amendment of the Constitution is decided by 2/3 of all MPs and MPs. This is, therefore, the 7 cases taxed by the Constitution by which the decisions are made by 2/3 of the majority. Outside these constitutional frameworks, there is no room for any decisions of the Croatian Parliament for the standoff, to make 2/3 of the majority. So I repeat, the Constitution has determined which decisions are made by 2/3 of the majority and only those decisions that must be made by 2/3 of the majority, which must be made by 2/3 of the majority. And now you who have reported for the corrections of the quote do not correct the provisions of the constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67978	We have a few corrections based on Article 223a. paragraph 5. Mr. Slavko Linic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67979	I am correcting the inaccuracies of Vice-President-President-in-Office that the Constitution has prevented a two-thirds decision on the selection of members of the commission. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia speaks if the Constitution is not otherwise defined in the Croatian Assembly of Decisions are made by majority of votes, which means that it is a minimum of standards and that it is possible and above. Because 2/3 means commitment. But that's not all that matters when I'm correcting your allegations. You will allow the selection of the commission under article 82 to be carried out by a simple majority. Because the Constitution doesn't say that the commission is chosen by the majority qualified. And the government has proposed the same counter-constitutional because Article 31 states a qualified majority which is not foreseen in your opinion, in an incorrect view of constitutional solutions. So when the government proposes, it's not unconstitutional. There's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67980	Joseph Leco, please make the same correction to the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67981	Mr. President, the Vice President of the Parliament has quite incorrectly called on the Constitution. Why? The Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest regulates the position of the President of the Republic of Croatia, and only the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia determines everything related to the function of the President of the Republic of Croatia. So the matter contained in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is constitutional matter and has it outside the Constitution. It is logical because there is a matter that is solved only in the Constitution and outside the Constitution, so we are governed by the Rules of Procedure even constitutional questions and let us not narrow the Constitution to norms only. Therefore, we want the commission to resolve and determine and punish the President of the Republic, and the Constitution says that only the Croatian Parliament, or the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, decides on the responsibility of the President of the Republic of Croatia, in Article 105(2). We cannot hide it from the public that we entered the constitutional matter at the will of the HDZ, brought it down to a simple debate in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67982	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of Vice President Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67983	Article 209(2) Rules of Procedure. My friend Leko, you haven't corrected my inaccuracies. I have made it very precise and clear, and I have counted the constitutional provisions by which decisions in which cases are made by 2/3 of the majority. That you listened carefully I said the Constitution determines cases where decisions are made by 2/3 of the majority. Also in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is the decisions made by 2/3 of the majority. Therefore, do not twist my words because I have counted cases in which the Constitution is determined to bring 2/3 to the majority. Time is money.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67984	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67985	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament according to the same standard and on the rights of MPs I said that the resolution of conflicts of interest in the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is constitutional matter because it determines how the President of the Republic of Croatia will respond in the event of conflicts of interest. And the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia has defined who decides. It is decided by 2/3 of the majority of the Croatian Parliament and 2/3 of the Constitutional Court. And you can't say that the law on preventing conflicts of interest is below that. So the matter containing this law is constitutional matter and must be decided by 2/3 of the majority. He signs Joseph Leco and puts the experts on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67986	We've got two more corrections. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go. He gave up, and you did. All right, then, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67987	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I would correct the inaccuracies of Vice President Shakespeare, who argued that our amendment was not acceptable to constitutional reasons. I think in this case the vice president found himself in a logical conflict of interest because he defended the government's proposal with the same arguments and challenged our proposal. The Government's proposal that the Commission must be chosen by qualified majority can be challenged with the same arguments as our proposal to the two-thirds majority, because the Croatian Constitution and our Rules of Procedure of Article 226 of the Rules which can be made by ordinary, qualified, two-thirds majority, and what the Government proposes in the law are neither in the Rules of Procedure nor in the Constitution. But this is just another continuation of the practice of casual interpretation of the Constitution when it comes to government proposals and restrictive interpretation of the Constitution when it comes to opposition proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67988	Correction of the incorrect allegations, MPs and vice president Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67989	Thank you very much. And I want to correct the incorrect allegations of Vice President Seks, who has decidently stated that the proposed amendment cannot be accepted because it prevents the Constitution. No, it's incorrect, it doesn't interfere with the Constitution, as my predecessors have been professionally and constitutionally explained, it simply prevents the interpretation of the law by Mr. Shakespeare. However, it seems to me that this is actually an attempt to retain the levers of the authorities that you will install after losing power.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67990	And on behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative. What? When? ... I believe most who say it is, is, so go ahead... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67991	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is an incorrect claim by the Vice-President of the Parliament that the Constitution prevents this commission from choosing a two-thirds majority. There is a constitutional obligation to adopt it by a two-thirds majority, a vote, as Article 105(2). The constitution says the procedure for determining the special responsibility of the President of the Republic can be initiated by the Croatian Parliament by a two-thirds majority of all MPs. So the body cannot be chosen by any other majority, which will question the potential responsibility of the President of the Republic, if that body is not chosen by the majority that the Constitution explicitly prescribes when it is treated by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67992	And the provision in the Constitution that determines the possibility of reviewing the responsibility of the President of the Republic is related to the violation of the Constitution. When he commits a violation of the Constitution of the President, it's regulated by the Constitution, yes. But let's move on, to amendments we haven't voted yet. 8th Amendment of Ms. Anne Lovrin to Article 32(9) I'm asking the minister to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67993	Mr. President. Ms Lovrin has, in fact, withdrawn Amendment No. 6, and the first part of her amendment 8 but this second part of the amendment relating to Article 10(3), it is acceptable, the Government accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67994	Accepts?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67995	We accept in the second part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67996	So in the second part he was accepted, and in the first part he was actually withdrawn with the 6th amendment. Thank you. It becomes this part of the proposal. 9th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Club of Representatives of the HNS and HSU and IDS to Article 32(9)
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67997	We do not accept for the same reasons that I stated when I did not accept Amendment 7, where we said that the Constitution was precisely explained when the two-thirds majority was applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67998	Mrs. Milanka Opačić, on behalf of the clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u67999	Well, I can only say once again that if this solution of ours isn't by the Constitution, it's not yours by the Constitution, and this just shows... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u68000	... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u68001	Yeah, here, let's not waste any time. So this just once again shows that you are ready to interpret the Constitution as it suits you, when it suits you in one way, when it suits you in another way. I'm sorry that you didn't accept our proposal to choose this body for two-thirds of the majority, because these five people can break into the apartments of all these officials you've put in here, unlike the police who need a warrant for that. As long as five women are given such powers, which do not have any other state institutions, it seems to me to be minimum, not only that law is passed with 77 hands, but that these five people are chosen here by a two-thirds majority. But obviously it's something else, not really a fight against conflicts of interest. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u68002	Let's please get involved and vote on this amendment, since there are three representatives' clubs here. Let's please get involved and vote on the amendment of clubs, which the government does not accept. The result? The amendment did not go through, it was voted by 35 MPs, 3 abstentions and 73 against. I would like to request a statement on the 10th Amendment of Agent Anne Lovrin, as referred to in Article 33(1), point 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u68003	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u68004	It becomes an integral part of the bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u68005	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u68006	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. And 12. The HNS and HSU representatives' club, as referred to in Article 37(2) and (4).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u68007	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-02-10-0.u68008	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. I would like to stress that the adoption of this law requires a majority of all MPs, so 77. Please, let's get involved and vote on the law together with the amendments adopted. Therefore, at least 77 MPs are required. What's the score? This bill was adopted by most votes, 77 votes for, 3 abstentions and nothing against. Along with the amendments accepted. So, ladies and gentlemen, we repeat the vote on the final proposal of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. I emphasized that the law could be passed need 77 votes for. Please, let's get involved and vote on that law again. ... What's he not doing? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] How many aren't working? Please don't let anyone get their hands up. So, what's the matter? Yeah. Please, we'll count on another plus Mrs. Schuce's voice. The result is to see how many of them are working. ... The law was passed by most votes. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please, please! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Don't get used to it. The law was passed by most votes, 78 plus 1 79, 1 abstention and 1 against. What? Along with the accepted amendment.
