ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, the aim of the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Nationality Cases is to reduce the number of people without citizenship by regulating situations in which persons will be assigned the citizenship of the State of the Party to the Convention if otherwise the person is left without citizenship. The convention was drawn up in New York on August 30th 1961. By the end of 2010, it was signed by five and ratified by 37 states. The Convention was joined by the most developed Member States of the European Union, a total of 18. The Convention seeks to combat the apatridity of the earliest age and requires signatories to adopt signed standards for the acquisition or termination of citizenship, provides for the establishment of international bodies to which persons could address and ask for assistance in handling the competent state authorities. In the event of any disagreement over the interpretation or application of the Convention between the Signatory States, each of the parties may address the international court to resolve the resulting dispute. The Convention is based on the acquisition of citizenship on the real connection of individuals with the state. The meaning and spirit of the convention are already contained in the Law on Croatian Citizenship in 1991. Legislative provisions on the acquisition of Croatian citizenship protect young children from aparidity in Articles 4, 5 and 7, as well as adult persons in Article 19. Therefore, the number of apatrides in the Republic of Croatia is extremely small. For example, in 2008 and 2009 a total of 13209 requests were received from the Ministry of the Interior for Croatian citizenship by birth. Of this, there were only 63 requests, a total of 0.4% of people without citizenship or unconfirmed citizenship, but have not yet registered in the country of origin. The adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Reduction of Stateless Cases is proposed to make its provisions within the meaning of 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order, and the implementation of this law does not require additional funds in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74302	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74303	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. As an indication of state sovereignty and identity, the issue of citizenship is extremely sensitive. It is not surprising, therefore, that the disagreements on the issue of citizenship can lead to and often lead to tensions and conflicts both within state and international. The reasons that can lead to non-citizenship are different, such as conflict of law, jurisdiction of territory, marriage, administrative practice, discrimination, lack of enrolment in the Matica of born, denationalisation and denial of citizenship. Many people are without citizenship and victims of forced migration. People who have been expelled from their homes are particularly vulnerable because of the loss of citizenship, especially when the migration is followed by the crossing of borders or when the crossing of borders follows after the migration. Regardless of the set of international legal rules relating to the acquisition, loss or depriving of the right to citizenship, according to the latest estimates without citizenship around the world today live around 11 million people without citizenship. Only the question of citizenship is, in principle, a matter of the legal framework of each individual country, but the applicability of the internal decisions of a country can be limited by similar treatment of other countries or international law. The existing legal framework in the Republic of Croatia to prevent the occurrence of a stateless case is in the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on Croatian Citizenship and the relevant international contracts which are the Republic of Croatia's party. This is the case with Article 9 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that Croatian citizenship, its acquisition and termination are governed by the law, specifically by the Law on Croatian Citizenship, which accepts European and international achievements in its basic solutions regarding the acquisition and termination of citizenship. The law thus prescribes ways of acquiring Croatian citizenship: origin, birth in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and birth and on the basis of international contracts. The Convention on the Reduction of Stateless Cases was drawn up in 1961 in New York, and came into force in 1975, and that was the case with countries that showed their consent to be bound by it. The purpose of the Convention is to reduce the number of people without citizenship by regulating situations in which a person will be assigned the nationality of the State of the Party to the Convention, if otherwise that person is without citizenship. Respecting the legal nature of citizenship as expressions of the sovereignty of each state of the Convention, it is essentially based on the acquisition of citizenship on the real connection of the individual with the state. At the same time, by confirming from the state, it makes it impossible to voluntarily deny citizenship and ensure that citizenship is granted and in circumstances where a person could become a stateless person. In order to prevent non-citizenship, the Convention primarily regulates the acquisition of citizenship of persons born in the territory of a Contracting State who would otherwise be without citizenship as well as persons who were not born in its territory and whose parents had the nationality of that State at the time of their birth. It is also foreseen that a State Party may restrict the granting of its nationality to the age of applicants by the duration of its normal residence in its territory, the condemnation of criminal offences and earlier statelessness. The Convention also contains a way of preventing non-citizenism in the event of State concessions. By confirming the Convention, the Republic of Croatia will join a round of states that seek to achieve the purpose of that Convention with their legislation to the fullest extent possible, and ensure the prevention of the occurrence of a case without citizenship due to the loss of citizenship. Following the above mentioned club, the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the reduction of cases without citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74304	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Sima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74305	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, there's a law in front of us that really shouldn't be talked about too much. But here's a few sentences of everything on behalf of the club for a simple reason to take advantage of the opportunity and to actually maybe warn some facts. Why is it important for Croatia, so this story about people who do not have citizenship, about apatrids. For a simple reason, because this problem is especially escalating in those environments, as counterpart Culjak said where the border ends, that is where one country splits into several countries, and then if you have more war, if you have these war casualties that are enormous, and every war suffering, and especially this has been followed by large or significant migrations, i.e. emigration, exile, etc. I was surprised to admit that in Croatia there have only been 63 cases in the last two years of people who do not have, which are stateless. I expected it to be more because five people came to me to help them with specific advice and what to do with that problem. In fact, it seems to me that today may be an opportunity to discuss another problem, which is that Croatia still has a relatively good citizenship law. But I personally believe that time has run him over. I think the Law on Croatian Citizenship of '91. one of the oldest if not the oldest law in Croatia. So he's 20 years old. This year has been 40 years since the signing of this convention. Here may be the only observation why in the past 20 years we haven't gone to ratification of this Convention. Although in Croatian law, therefore, in Croatian legislation that treats this issue, so on citizenship law is built in as much as the basic or general principles relating to citizenship I think the specificity of the Croatian situation, that the time that has passed behind us has done its part and I think that in some parts of it, therefore the law is not modern in some parts of it. I know I took advantage of the opportunity a few months ago and warned about the need to change the Law on Citizenship. That's when the secretary of state said the law was in the works. I hope we get him on the bench soon, because I think he's very important to Croatia. Let's say I'd like to open a story, so what about those citizens who don't come in any way into the story of this Convention, or the story of Croatian citizenship, or the law on Croatian citizenship. Let's say who's the special in Croatia today? The specifics are, say, Roma. The problem of the Roma is actually very interesting. So they were born in Croatia or were born elsewhere or came I don't know from Macedonia, it doesn't matter where, Albania. But what exactly is this about? Since they do not have documents and evidence, so it simply raises the question of how and I think that is missing, in particular, the Law on Citizenship, how to solve these problems. I just had a few cases, like where you have families. The daughter has citizenship, the husband has citizenship, and the lady cannot get citizenship, but must, by means of a permit, temporary residence permit to get to that condition to request permanent stay in order to take a step towards citizenship. So there are silent, there are a number of these questions. Second question. Croatian law implies and predicates in some situations discharge from other citizenships. You have a situation, let's say that people who are in Croatia for years who have come from Macedonia or their parents, for example, can't get their hands on these discharges or the offices have been destroyed or it doesn't work all together. I purposely highlight these certain border situations that should be taken into account. What I think, so it's good that this convention is definitely going to be ratified and the SDP club is going to vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74306	Thank you. It is next to the club of representatives of HNS, HSU Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74307	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, there are estimated to be around 11 million people worldwide without citizenship. And perhaps it's important to say that the largest group of these people is in the Middle East. These are members of the Palestinian people. There are many of them also in the countries of Southeast Europe, Sudan, Afghanistan, the Ivory Coast, there are in South America, but also in Europe. As we heard the convention was given for signing in '61. the year she was adopted. Unfortunately, all 37 UN member states ratified this Convention, in 40 or 50 years, which is very, very little and I am glad that here is Croatia deciding to move from these 37 countries into battle to reduce the number of apatrides. The supervision of the UN General Assembly itself has entrusted UNHCR and any signatories state can always request assistance from this organisation. During the status of apatride, co-operation with other countries is necessary, especially with neighbouring countries, and this is important for Croatia to take all steps in this direction, especially by analysing their laws, their regulations, their practice in order to clearly find optimal solutions for all citizens from these areas. Furthermore, colleagues and colleagues should not forget that the principle of compulsory treatment requires that certain guarantees be granted to the applicant, including the right to individual examination of the request, the right to objective treatment in relation to the request, the time limit on the duration of the procedure, the right to access the information related to the procedure in the language of the comprehensible applicant, the right to legal advice and translator, the right to confidentiality and data protection, the mandatory submission of a decision supported by the reasons on which it is based and the right to contest the decision. Let us now return to Europe, by the disintegration of the former Soviet Union, Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia, a number of problems have arisen with apartrides, migrations, emigrations, refugees and all that my colleague Lucin has already mentioned must have burdened the clear countries from the space of these three former states. Their many citizens who have found themselves in the area of the emerging countries are not enrolled in their birth certificates. Without this, they do not have personal documents, and without these documents it is impossible to exercise the right to work, to education, to health and social protection. I might go here with one commendation. I think it's good to say that the work of mobile teams in implementing the National Roma Programme has proved successful. He solved numerous cases along with the involvement of members of the Roma national minority in obtaining travel documents from the country of origin and thus solved indeed many problems. The Convention invites signatories states to issue travel documents to non-citizens. We haven't heard anything from the secretary of state, but I believe there's no difficulty, at least I haven't heard of them. If there is a clear need for this section of the Convention to be strictly respected because if a clear person without citizenship has travel documents he can travel, he can be educated, he can be hired and therefore exercise many rights already based on a clearly such document. Each State Party to the Convention undertakes to recognise the validity of the travel documents of another Signatory State. Especially sensitive problems are related to children and women who do not have citizenship, and therefore it is good that we, I repeat, are headed this way. The HNS-HSU club will also support the ratification of this important document because we believe that it should be dealt with as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible by each individual case of apatride. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74308	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one is Mrs. Mirela Holly, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74309	Thank you, Your Honor. I think it's the worst curse, and so does the people's belief, when you once have something, and then all of a sudden you lose it, or you don't have it. Having health and losing it, having a home and losing it, having a citizenship and losing it are one of those curses. This curse happened to the ladies Mirjana and Biljana Grizhova who were otherwise born to the women of Zagreb, the daughters of Ms Ljubice Grizhova, who in 1997 after having Croatian citizenship suddenly lost their citizenship and became apartrids overnight. Mrs. Biljana was lucky enough to marry an American, and in the meantime, she gained American citizenship per wife, but Mrs. Mirjana has already been an apatride for more than 14 years. How did that happen? Just now, Mrs Ljubica Grizova spoke to me, she is the mother of Mirjana and Biljana Grizova, who has lived in Zagreb for years on Pantovčak, and she is desperate because her daughters are without any too much explanation erased from Croatian citizenship in 1997. I recalled that the Law on Croatian Citizenship in Article 3 provides that Croatian citizenship is obtained by birth on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which means that Biljana Gatalica and Mirjana Grizhova both acquired the right to Croatian citizenship by birth in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The interpretation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations that Biljana and Mirjana have no right to citizenship at birth even though they were born in the Republic of Croatia because their parents were citizens of the Socialist Republic of Macedonia at the time of their birth were absolutely unacceptable because they were all citizens or citizens of the SFRY in the former Socialist Federation Republic of Yugoslavia. This interpretation of the right to citizenship represents nothing more than counting the blood cells of citizens and citizens of Croatia and is absolutely unacceptable in a modern European state. I stress that Mirjana Grizhova today is an apatrid because she has neither citizenship nor the passport of any country that seriously threatened her fundamental human rights. For the absurd to be larger Biljana and Mirjana to have birth certificates that show that they were born in Zagreb in the Socialist Republic of Croatia, they own households from 1992 and until 1997 they also owned Croatian passports. In 1998, however, the Ministry of the Interior annulled their passports because the City Office for the General Administration of the City of Zagreb informed them that they were citizens of the Republic of Macedonia, which is absolutely incorrect. Despite the fact that the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Macedonia issued confirmation that Mirjana Grizova was not included in the book of citizens of the Republic of Macedonia and that she was not issued a certificate of Macedonian citizenship despite the fact that both Biljana and Mirjana were born in Croatia, and despite their mother being a Croatian citizen, they are again denied the right to Croatian citizenship. After I asked the question about why Mrs Mirjana Grizova did not recognise Croatian citizenship, I received an answer from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who signed the Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, which states among other things that the Ministry of Interior has repeatedly failed to meet the mother of the appointed Ms. Ljubica Grižova with the facts presented, i.e. that Mirjana Grižova has the right to acquire Croatian citizenship which says that persons born in the Republic of Croatia at birth can acquire Croatian citizenship if, with the other conditions until the day of application, they have registered a stay in the Republic of Croatia for at least 5 years uninterrupted. Since Mrs Mirjana Grizova has been living in Italy for years, she does not have the right to acquire Croatian citizenship on the basis of this article, which the Ministry of the Interior knows very well, and this sounds really scary when we have in mind and what we have been able to read about from many media that Croatian citizenship has issued to hard-working criminals, Russian mobsters and the like who have never lived in the Republic of Croatia, but the Ministry of Interior refuses to give citizenship to the lady who was born in the Republic of Croatia and who lived for years in the Republic of Croatia, whose mother has citizenship, which is... who has lived in Italy for years and thus has no fundamental human rights. I hope that by adopting this Convention, i.e. by confirming, which among other things in Article 1 says that the States of the Contracting Parties grant their nationality to a person born in its state territory who would otherwise be without citizenship, they will allow the acquisition of Croatian citizenship to Mrs Mirjana Grizhovi, who has been a person without any nationality for several years and thus will resolve its fundamental human rights. I hope that you will be able to answer this question or that you will explain to me whether Mrs. Grizhova will finally be able to obtain Croatian citizenship through the signing of this Convention and without calling for Article 9 which will not have the right to obtain Croatian citizenship.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74310	Thank you. We have one replica of Mr. Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74311	Thank you very much. In fact, this problem, colleague Holly, said it was about fundamental human rights, and it's a little bit of a concern for this restrictive approach when dealing with human rights issues. I know that every state has to take care of who receives it for its subject so when it does not become automated but I must say from communication with different state institutions, that it often frustrated the length of the procedure, not responding to certain requests of transfer from one office to another office, then to court, etc. In fact, maybe what my colleague Holly was talking about, and otherwise this restrictive approach because you watch out, more developed countries have a more restrictive approach to giving citizenship to people who are without citizenship. It is present today in Croatia. Perhaps when adopting a new Law on Citizenship, a procedure should be laid down, or even a deadline, because today, for several months, even if it is negative, it is waiting for some kind of deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74312	Here's Mrs. Holly's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74313	My colleague Lucin, you are absolutely right even though I was talking about the Mirjana Grizhova case and her sister, who, fortunately, gained American citizenship. I was addressed by another large number of people, so I am not sure that the number presented by my colleague Kuljak is entirely correct because, as far as I know, a very large number of people of Albanian origin in Croatia have similar problems and there are absurd situations for you that entire families have citizenship and one of the family members has no right to citizenship because in another office, and not in one office of the Zagreb administration, they have submitted the request to these others and others have submitted to the Ličko-Senj County and those who have submitted to Ličko-Senj County and have the same conditions for obtaining citizenship as those others who have submitted to Zagreb police in Zagreb have not obtained the right, that such non-compliance and unmoderate practice in institutions, depending on where they are submitted and what requirement it is absolutely inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74314	Thank you. State Secretary Mr. Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74315	Thank you very much, because Mrs. Holly asked for an answer, and I'm going to answer immediately, and I'm telling you right now, I'm not really familiar with that case, but I understand what you're talking about, and you've made a few claims that absolutely do not stand. This is how you said it was the citizens of SFRY and everyone had the citizenship of SFRY and what's absurd and it was probably about counting blood cells, which is not true and it's not true. By 1991, all of us, or people who were alive, had two citizenships, had the citizenship of the SFRY and republican citizenship. Many people lived in Croatia until 1991 but had no Croatian citizenship, including myself. I was born in Croatia, graduated from kindergarten, graduated from primary school, college, married, had never left Croatia, but I was not a Croatian citizen because my father was 47 years old in BIH. I was under the applicable laws of a citizen of the BIH. I had to get citizenship, so it's the same thing about a case like that I guess. It is not known for a specific case of these two persons but I assume that their father was in Macedonia in 1947 and were enrolled in the Macedonian citizen's book and were Macedonian citizens. It was likely by mistake in 92 that they were recorded in the book of citizens, and when the error was established, that solution was annulled. So no one was counting blood cells, and you need to know that there were two citizenships, and by 1971, it seems to me that all newborn babies were enrolled in a citizen's book where their father was in 47 and not where they were born. This is a fact and the MUP certainly does not betray citizenship by counting blood cells or by carrying out any segregation but by checking rather than by a person who wants to question himself in the book of citizens meeting the conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74316	Thank you. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74317	Thank you very much. Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We see that there is an interesting debate in front of us about the law that seems routine or administrative at first sight. However, everyone has the right to citizenship, no one should be voluntarily deprived of their citizenship or deprived of the right to change their citizenship. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official General Declaration of Human Rights of '48. Every single person's age, no matter where he is, is given the right to contact the state. Citizenship not only gives people a sense of identity but gives individuals the right to protect the state and many civil and political rights. This is why citizenship is described as the right to enjoy rights. Despite the existence of a body of international legal acts relating to the acquisition, loss or denial of the right to citizenship, many people around the world today do not have citizenship. They're apathrides or people without citizenship. Without citizenship can occur for a number of reasons such as conflict of law, jurisdiction of territory, laws governing marriage, administrative practices, discrimination, not enrolment in the birth certificate, denationalisation when the state abolishes citizenship or denial of citizenship when an individual refuses to protect the state. Many people without citizenship bear victims of forced migration. People who have been forced to leave their homes are particularly susceptible to apartdria especially when their migration is followed by a cross-border or when it comes after the migration. On the contrary, people without citizenship as well as people who have lost their citizenship are often forced to leave their place of residence. It is this link to the exposed situation that has led the UN General Assembly to appoint a special agency responsible for monitoring to prevent the reduction of apatridia by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. According to the latest estimates today, there are about 11 million people in the world without citizenship. But this number, of course, is just a rough assessment. It is very difficult for organisations to collect comprehensive data on the number of people without citizenship because the concept of apatria is the subject of a dispute between countries because governments are often reluctant to publish apartrid data as well as because the issue without citizenship is not high on the international community priority scale. In recent years, however, there has been an increase in awareness within the international community that respect for human rights helps to prevent mass exodus and forced migration. There is also a growing awareness on the basis of the principles contained in international agreements that each country has an obligation to address problems without citizenship. The Convention on the Reduction of Stateless Cases was drawn up in New York on August 30th 1961. By 31 July 1962, the Convention was signed by 5 states, and by November 2010, 37 countries became party to the Convention. The purpose of the Convention is to reduce the number of persons without citizenship, to regulate situations in which a person will be assigned the citizenship of the State of the Party to the Convention if otherwise the person is left without citizenship. Confirmation of the Republic of Croatia Convention will join a round of countries that seek to achieve the purpose of that Convention to the fullest extent possible, and ensure the prevention of the occurrence of a stateless case due to the loss of citizenship. An existing legal framework to prevent the emergence of stateless cases due to the loss of citizenship. The existing legal framework to prevent the emergence of stateless cases is in the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the Law on Croatian Citizenship and numerous international agreements which the Republic of Croatia is party to. I am pleased to conclude that basic principles and standards known in European legislation, such as the principle of legal continuity of citizenship, the principle of preventing cases without citizenship, the principle of exclusion of Croatian citizenship and the principle of equality of marriage, extramarital and adopted children, have already been incorporated into the Law on Croatian citizenship. Our law accepts European international achievements in its fundamental solutions regarding the acquisition of the end of citizenship, we have heard that even after 20 years of law enforcement there are 60 unsolved cases. Each case is particularly difficult but after 20 years of applying the 60th, I believe it will soon be resolved. The entry into force of this Convention Confirmation Act and the entry into force of the Convention will further protect the fundamental human rights of persons without nationality and will therefore support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74318	Thank you. We have one correction from Mr. Representative Sima Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74319	Well, unfortunately, it's an incorrect assumption that everyone has the right to citizenship. Maybe in some ideal conditions and in some kind of declaration and declaration, but there's no reason. I'm going to give you an example, let's say a man of origin from Macedonia who can't get citizenship in Croatia is trying to get it for a very long time, he can't get it, he won't even be able to get it after adopting this law. Why? Because Macedonia is not a signator, nor has it ratified this convention. So one is the situation on this proclaimed to say the level, and the other is what's the real problem. And in this sense, I am going back to the Croatian Citizenship Act which will have to verify and imply some of the specifics that Croatia has and which should be addressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74320	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74321	Thank you, Mr. President. Here today we heard a lot of problems that occur in people without citizenship and, like my colleague Holly, I had a few questions and there were people who tried to reach citizenship, Croatian citizenship. But I think there's a problem that has arisen and their guilt is definitely because of '91. The year it was registered, we still had exactly the same case that colleague Holly told us that one son's father had reported here and another in Macedonia. The reason is because in Macedonia someone had an estate and here a son wanted to hold a business in Lika-Senj County exactly that. And clearly later, the second son who was in Macedonia also wanted to gain Croatian citizenship. And that's where the problem came from. The problem has also arisen with staying because it seems to me that under our law it has been required for 5 years here and I believe that one day it will even be resolved because, as far as I can see in Article 4 of this Convention, it says that the person concerned had a normal residence in the territory of the Contracting State during the period immediately preceding the application and which may be determined by that State is no longer more than three years. So, I think a little bit of this convention is a little more flexible, and I guess one day some things are probably going to change in our law. The problem is that many families do not have all Croatian citizenship. It is not only a problem in Croatia, it is a problem in other countries, somewhere perhaps a little easier by marrying, by marrying those citizenships, but we have a law that needs to be respected, and in this law we cannot, it would not be good that for one it is not valid for the other because then trust in the law will surely fail. We see the convention itself that it was long ago, but so far only 18 European countries have accepted this, so I don't think we're late here, so before we've had one really difficult period behind us, and that's the period of war where there was emigration, emigration, application, non-registration, departure, return, so there were a lot of these moments, and I think most of these cases are well solved. The problems will continue in view of the situation in Syria and Libya and the like, where a huge number of people go across the sea, throws away, loses the document, does not come, go towards Europe and surely the wave that affects southern Europe that some of the arms of that wave will come safely to us. There are a number of things that are accepting the Convention of Good, Clear, above all there is the protection of children born in this area, the protection of people who are very difficult to reach citizenship, who cannot gain citizenship. I know that the problem with these people is employment because employment requires certain documents, education and the like. But I think there's always, as far as I know, there's always a good will to solve the problems that can be solved, so that's how they can be solved quickly. All cases that don't fit the law have their own story. Whether people have gone away and no longer live here, whether they want citizenship, it is often about dual citizenship, but some citizenship they may not even show, they do not show, and Croatia is an attractive country and I think we will have a lot more of these problems. In any case, it is positive to accept this convention because in it, many will be sure of their rights, acquire their rights, and normally we will support this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74322	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Shime Luchin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74323	In fact, I appear for a simple reason because each discussion opens up a new problem, a new question, actually opens up problems and questions from the Croatian Citizenship Act. Actually, that's what this is about. So, since a colleague was saying that one father reported one there, another there, in two different states. But the Law on Croatian Citizenship must clearly prescribe and define what I do not have today, to gain citizenship in order to bring the family together. So, in a series of legal solutions, we know this concept of family integration, so we get certain rights, but let's say when it comes to citizenship, it's a little tense. And I would ask that we distinguish migration policy, foreign policy, refugees because most of these people actually have citizenship. Here we are talking exclusively about people who do not have any citizenship, so neither is citizenship in the country from which they flee or are exiled.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74324	Answer, Mr. Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74325	I wanted to, clearly, support family integration where possible and when possible and clearly according to the regulations, but it's about adults who each have their own family. So this isn't about family reunion. In that case, and listen to that wish at that time was good, but later it turned out that this combination with citizenship would be even better than today very difficult to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74326	Replica, Mrs. Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74327	Dear counterpart Markovanovic, you said I hope this convention, or confirmation, will be a positive step, but the question is whether it will really be a positive step. In fact, a moment ago, the secretary of state told me that on the basis of what I just said about Mrs Mirjana Grizhova's case, she will not be entitled to Croatian citizenship under this law or this convention, which I have to admit is quite surprising because of the fact that Article 1. The Convention says that the State Contracting State, which is Croatia in this case, grants its citizenship to a person born in its territory, which is Mrs. Grizova, who would otherwise be without citizenship, and she is without citizenship. So now I don't understand how in the conflict between our citizenship law and this convention, these cases of apatride will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74328	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74329	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. Unlike other colleagues and fellow MPs, I believe that this law should first of all not be passed by emergency procedure because it is a law which can have extremely great consequences in Croatia, especially because as a state, we are in the moments when the negotiations on entry into the European Union are being completed, and through this the interest of potential refugees to enter the Republic of Croatia and through this entry into the European Union is strengthened. Thus, such important laws do not really need to be passed by emergency procedure. There is no reason why such a law should not be passed in a regular procedure because the adoption of a law by emergency procedure usually brings a number of problems that have not been seen through one detailed analysis of such a law. Otherwise, I believe that Croatia is too often too easily to reach Croatian citizenship and that it is the whole process of granting citizenship that needs to be laid down and speeded up. I'd like to go back through it to the Law of Citizenship itself. In fact, we, as a state and through this law, would have to show on one hand that we appreciate and respect people who fought for Croatia at difficult times, and we have cases today that many people, most Bosniak nationalities today, do not have Croatian citizenship and were volunteers in the Homeland War. Croatia therefore needs to show that it cares primarily about people who were ready to defend Croatia when it was difficult. On the other hand, we also have a large number of people who are objectively not living in the Republic of Croatia, have Croatian citizenship, are employed by many of them in neighbouring Serbia, and are also registered as unemployed at the Croatian Employment Service and receive all possible assistance and compensation from them. It's a huge asset, and it should also be combed. So we can't be too liberal and I don't accept the modality to make decisions on such laws on a shortcut. I would even like to remind, for example, the case of Estonia in which 40% of the population are members of the Russian people who are significantly smaller than Croatia, which has conditioned the acquisition of Estonian citizenship through special tests from knowledge of Estonian history and culture and Estonian language. 40% of citizens of Russian nationality in Estonia had no right to even Estonian citizenship, and this is a member state of the European Union. So let's not be too liberal in this process. There's a lot of danger behind that. And I particularly mind that it is stated in the light of this law that the implementation of this Law does not require any additional funding from the state budget. That's absolutely not true. The moment the Croatian citizenship of persons who have acquired the right to all forms of support for the unemployed and other forms of social assistance begins to be shared. That's what people really need to be told. Therefore, the cost of applying this Law is extremely high and this must be one of the reasons why this law should go into two readings. It needs to be thoroughly analyzed. It is precisely the fact that we are in an area where there will be an interest from the Arab world, which at this time is restless and numerous other countries, and also in the environment because in Croatia there is still a higher standard of living than in the countries south-east of Croatia. And we have to have exactly the opposite of a very restrictive law that needs to create such conditions that Croatian citizenship is extremely difficult to obtain, that this is one value. But this value should be made possible for those who came as volunteers to Croatia and Croatia to defend. So we will show how we appreciate those people who took part in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74330	We have Mr. Shime Luchin's correction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74331	It is incorrect that this law is liberal and is actually incorrectly next. In my opinion, he's very restrictive and I'd like to remind him in this law that neither the Arabs nor the refugees nor the exiles are spoken of. This Law does not speak of anyone seeking and requiring Croatian citizenship. This Law only speaks here in the Croatian case in the last two years if the correct information has no reason to doubt 63 requests, 63 persons and nothing else. I don't know if you know what it means not to have citizenship? It means not having the right to work, it means not having the right to bread, it means not having the right to social care, it means not having the right to medical protection, etc. etc. It means being in heaven or on earth. Therefore, to claim that this law is liberal no. He's in his own right. He's not even restrictive. But in my opinion, the Convention is actually the one that could be more liberal even though it's sixty, after all, it's written in '61. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74332	The replica of Mrs. Mirala Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74333	Dear Serbian counterpart, I truly believe that when we talk about this extremely important convention, there is no room for any xenophobic structures. You mentioned cases of persons with Croatian citizenship, living in Serbia and receiving various social benefits based on Croatian citizenship. You're right. Those are definitely cases and abuses. But I would like to stress that there is an even greater number of those living in Bosnia and Herzegovina who have Croatian citizenship and use different social benefits and rights. And I'm surprised those cases don't really bother you, too, and given that the number of such cases is much higher than those living in Serbia, so here's your chance to comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74334	Thank you. Mr. Daniel Srb's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74335	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Holly, I really don't know where you get that information that's more of these or those which means you've been counting blood cells, and I haven't done that. That's the first one. And secondly, we must also be aware of this by passing these laws we take money from our tax bonds. That'll cost you. It's easy to be generous, it's easy to give rights. That's nice. But there are millions and millions of people living in difficult conditions, and all we have to do is also have a sense of responsibility to our taxpayers. Because it's about their money. And if we are responsible and they will be more successful and the Croatian economy will be better for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74336	Thank you. And five minutes of final debate on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74337	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the reduction of cases without citizenship with a final draft law in an emergency procedure. The law bears the numbering of 797 but does not have the E mark. Therefore, it is not conditional on any or any of the directives of Europe or of the European Union. We, as Serbian counterpart said, bring this sort of liberal thinking. The convention, as Mr. Lucin says, has been covering or referring to 63 people in the last two years. However, Mr. Lucin, we should be aware of what will happen in the future especially in connection with our environment. So, the environment in which the Republic of Croatia is. I'm talking about countries where the English and some other Yugoslavs call it the South region instead of Yugoslavia. Then about the Middle East, North Africa, etc. Then on the situation in which Croatia is located, the economic and economic situation in which Croatia is at the door of the European Union and where there can be expected to be a far higher number of such cases than the number you have spoken, which is 63. And therefore, in this light, we should look at this Convention, and in particular at cases which it has, which the Secretary of State knows about, which is the demand for Croatian citizenship by people from our diaspora who have almost 30,000 and who are entangled in the office-administrative apparatus and self-will or arbitrary thinking and decision-making at the Ministry of the Interior. I also know personal cases, since I am in the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, where people speak to emails and ask for a solution to the issue of Croatian citizenship, whose one parent was born in Croatia, and the other or wife of Peruanka, Bolivian, etc., where Croatian citizenship cannot be found for a wife and children. We need to pay much more attention to this matter than to this 63 cases. According to you, it turns out that's why this whole legal proposal is, and it's not. So the figures vary in terms of the demand for Croatian citizenship. It is mainly said somewhere around 30,000 people from the descendants of Croats who have moved from Croatia. I will not talk about names, it is not nice to talk about, to list the names of people who cannot achieve for their wife or for their children, and according to Article 11 Croatian citizenship. That should be ours, first of all, our concern. And to bring a liberal like this as said by the Serbian law, which can open a far greater number of cases of Croatian citizenship claims than those of non-citizens, so those who have no citizenship, so should Croatia take care of anyone who comes this way, and you have watched TV shows of how many they cross Croatia and how many will pass them when Croatia enters the EU or when it is in preparation for the EU. All that costs our taxpayers. And those 30,000 people who seek Croatian citizenship about them continue to squat and their papers stand in the offices of the MUP at the mercy of arbitrary thinking and decision-making to say this, depends on who you run into there. Therefore, this legislative proposal should not go into emergency procedures. We are not against the Convention on the Reduction of Stateless Cases, but in any case we need to go to at least one more reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74338	Thank you. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. First, Mrs. Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74339	Dear counterpart Grubisic, an emergency procedure for international conventions confirming the text of the Convention absolutely makes no sense because we in Parliament cannot change the text of the Convention. He's as reprehensible as that, and we can either accept the convention in the Assembly or not. And in this sense there is absolutely no reason to read in the ordinary procedure of such draft laws because they cannot be influenced in principle in any way during the debate, or we can decide that we will not simply ratify such a convention. And that's why international conventions are usually brought into emergency procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74340	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74341	It is incorrect that in a few years or a few years, the situation could be worse in the context of which counterpart Grubisic spoke about migration. I hope that by then we will be in the EU and that at the eastern borders there will be Schengen. And we know the standards of Schengen, and we know in fact there can be no more entry in Croatia than it is today. And one more thing, someone who understands what liberalism is and what it is to move for human rights and human freedom to claim to be something that was adopted, which was passed in '61. The year that it's liberal I think we should talk earlier in the context that it's conservative. Because in '61. Only in turn were actually requirements for a higher standard of human rights and human freedoms.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74342	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74343	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I did not expect such a heated debate over this law confirming the convention, but it seems to me that a lot of these bile debates are due to the fact that the convention has not been read well and that the Law on Croatian Citizenship is not known. The Law on Croatian Citizenship is essential for the acquisition of Croatian citizenship. This Convention speaks only of cases of a stateless person. And I will repeat, last year, such persons who requested the acquisition of Croatian citizenship in Croatia were 63, which was 0.4% of the total applications submitted, which were 13 209. Under the Law on Croatian Citizenship, citizenship is acquired in several ways and at birth in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, by parents of Croatian citizens, by naturalisation where certain conditions must be met. And what is very important is to point out the same thing for Mr. Grubisic and I don't know who else is from that aspect, Mr. Serbs, and the foundation of belonging to the Croatian people... Croatian peoples under the current Croatian Citizenship Act have the possibility of privileged acquisition of Croatian citizenship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This condition exists, this condition will remain in the new law and thus the Croatian state protects the interests of Croatian people around the world. In addition, you know that the government has also adopted a strategy for Croats outside Croatia where a quality issue of care for Croats outside Croatia will be regulated and through the acquisition of Croatian citizenship. You also need to know that in addition to the fight against the apatridity of statelessness in the world, the fight against more citizenship, the biparity, the multipatridity is being fought. There are many countries that simply threaten double or multiple citizenship. So it happened that there were also a lot of Croats who gained Croatian citizenship during the 1990s and 2000s who had been released from Croatian citizenship because they had among others and German citizenship, and Germany is one of the countries that is fighting double and multiple citizenship. So the situation isn't as uniform as it looks. Finally, I would say that this Convention will certainly in no way compromise the national interests of the Republic of Croatia because it does not allow and does not provide for such a simplified way of gaining Croatian citizenship as it has tried to say in some discussions. So it is said in Article 1 of this Convention that citizenship is given to people without citizenship and under such conditions as may be prescribed by internal law. So it is also prescribed that the person concerned had a normal residence in the state area. So this person cannot come, fall from the sky and suddenly ask for Croatian citizenship but must also meet certain conditions regarding the length of stay in the Republic of Croatia. It is said in one place that it is three years, the second is said to be five years, and it is also said to be extremely clear to this Convention that the state can prescribe with its internal laws other conditions that a person without citizenship must fulfil in order to obtain Croatian citizenship based on this Convention, primarily for humanitarian reasons in the fight against apartridity which is certainly not a good situation. And be assured that this Convention will not disrupt the acquisition of Croatian citizenship in the sense that citizenship will be shared by cap and fist. This process will be based exclusively on the law on Croatian citizenship, this will be very rare exceptions where citizenship will only be given in cases where people without citizenship are in a difficult humanitarian situation and are staying in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so that nothing so tragic will happen as it was concluded from these several discussions that were. Otherwise, I believe that the Government will soon adopt amendments to the Law on Croatian Citizenship which will be referred to the legal procedure and will just try one more quality way to resolve these misunderstandings, especially on the basis of this new strategy for Croats outside Croatia to regulate and acquire Croatian citizenship and care for Croatian citizens outside the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74344	Thank you. We have a correction Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74345	Mr. Secretary of State you know well and we all here how and who all got citizenship from the 90s and some more years that they were mob criminals, mobsters from Russia, Serbia, Bulgaria, etc. So taught by that bitter experience I was talking about what I was saying. Furthermore, in Croatia and those with citizenship there are many apatrides, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74346	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met, probably tomorrow. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Reduction of Stateless Cases, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 797. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Reduction of Stateless Cases. Let's please get involved and vote on a proposal to confirm the convention. Score. This final proposal for a law confirming the convention was adopted by the majority of votes, 112 votes in favour, no abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74349	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, very briefly on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty for the Development Policy of the Economic Recovery of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this law confirms a loan for development policy concluded between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is one of the financial institutions of the World Bank Group. The loan contract provides for the amount of loans, the withdrawal of loans, the financial conditions under which the loan is granted, and the way in which the financial commitments are settled, and the entry into force and the termination of the contract. This loan aims to strengthen fiscal sustainability through consolidation of public consumption and the creation of a stimulating environment for private sector growth. Allow me a few words about the terms of the loan itself. So, the total amount of the loan is 150m euros, which at the moment of signing the contract itself was $213m in value, the repayment period of the principal loan is 15 years and the principal is fully within maturity. The financial conditions are related to the reference interest rate which is a six-month euro... at the time of the loan agreement that was on 10 May 2011, was 1,713 increased by a fixed margin which, under the World Bank's terms, is 0,80 which means at the time the contract was concluded, the total interest rate was around 2,513%. As far as the fee is concerned, all intra-loan fees are practically released except for this one-time entry fee of 0.25% of the main interest amount. Interests reach half-years in two meals. In the end, allow me just two words about our cooperation with the World Bank. This is only one in a series of financial support programmes for the Republic of Croatia by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which, when compared with all other international financial institutions, was the first one since 1993 when we became a member of this group, the World Bank invested 2.2 billion euros in 48 loans in Croatia. It is also very important to mention that we are users of over 50 different gifts and grants intended to launch and prepare a number of projects that have been implemented in total amounting to almost $100 million. Also, this loan that we are discussing today, i.e. the Loan Treaty, is part of the overall cooperation strategy with the World Bank, which was signed there in 2008 and which was defined for the four-year period until 2012. This strategy discusses the time and time that occurred before the very outbreak of the financial economic crisis defined certain areas such as environmental protection, infrastructure, such as social benefits and social security of some others who were actually intended to transport the world bank but was also left with the possibility that these loans could be realised for economic cooperation or development aid. Of course, we will continue our cooperation with the World Bank as we continue to rely on their cooperation and ultimately on support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74350	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry. I should have given a notice before I moved on to this item on the agenda. In fact, this 30th month is the day of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the law, is marked either by a solemn session or by another way, which is determined by the Presidency of the Parliament. The Bureau of Parliament agreed that this year, because last year we had a 20-year anniversary of a large one to say the celebration, to organise so that after tomorrow's session, it will be sometime after 12 hours we have a meeting of representatives down in our space, where I would address with a few convenient words and thus mark our day of the Croatian Parliament, in this way we act rationally. We're still going to do it in a way, not as solemnly as last year, but we're going to mark it anyway. So I ask the leaders of the clubs to be not only at the vote and general work of the Parliament but also after that. It will not be long before we do not part immediately but rather be as large as possible to mark the Day of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. And now I'm asking if the committee's rapporteurs are going to take a word on this point the secretary of state gave the opening statement? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. He reported on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74351	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. During the period of extremely high responsibilities of the Republic of Croatia, any discussion on additional debt certainly calls on us to be cautious and on the other hand to be responsible for the needs of the State that the economic recovery programme on the one hand can be implemented more intensively and, on the other hand, to finance those programmes and those activities that will be directly operational both in the implementation of this programme and in the indirect strengthening of the economic competitiveness of Croatian entrepreneurship. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as part of the World Bank Group or Group is one of the most qualitative partners when it comes to financing the Government of the Republic of Croatia's reform programme and, on the other hand, to implementing specific projects that strengthen economic competitiveness. We have heard from the secretary of state so far in these types of cooperation with the International Bank we have used 48 loans worth about 2.2 billion euros and 51 gifts worth about 72 million US dollars. The government of the Republic of Croatia has agreed with the World Bank Executive Board to implement a four-year loan programme that can be worth up to a billion US dollars from 2009. And as we can see before us there is a second-in-a-kind loan agreement from that strategy. The first was about 200 million, and this one is now as we are proposed to weigh 150m euros. It should be said that the conditions under which this capital is paid are extremely favourable, because, as the secretary of state said, it will ultimately amount to about 2.513%. It's a very good price of capital and it's hard to talk about a better one that could be found right now. What calls for may be an additional debate would be a more decided provision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the very purpose. Namely, this is the purpose set, i.e. the objectives that we have also gained in reason, which is to strengthen fiscal sustainability through the consolidation of public consumption, and the creation of a stimulating environment for private sector growth, are still not specific enough to know which projects will be used specifically under the economic recovery programme. It seems to me that it would be good and in this sense we are free to hope that most of these funds will be spent to achieve this second objective, which is to create a stimulating environment for the growth of the private sector, as the promoter said in this document, which is before us, or the proposal, should manage to increase labour market flexibility and encourage active participation in the labour market. We know that unemployment is a key economic problem for the Republic of Croatia, then to reduce administrative and regulatory barriers to business, and to accelerate the resolution of trade disputes. And these are two extremely important issues that burden the functioning of the economic system, new investment and development at this time, and the reduction of ownership in state-owned enterprises through privatisation or liquidation of state-owned enterprises. Now that's already one area around which we should be more specific because we certainly deserve to know what the government is specifically planning in this area. Here today we have seen in public communication the analysis of how it is managed by state property in the Croatian Privatisation Fund, how in fact the state has managed through the last ten or more years a portfolio owned by state property, or which we have benefited at all from the management of these business systems owned by the state. It is obvious that the whole big crisis business shows that not only the business results of companies that are largely or partly owned by the Republic of Croatia, so not only the results combined with the general opportunities in the economy, I am primarily referring to the recession and the economic crisis, but also the facts that say that these companies also operated in the curent years from 2003 to 2007 when it was not possible to talk about the global and then our national economic crisis. Therefore, it is obvious that the country-owned portfolio management model has reached a crisis and that it is more than an emergency time to respond to clear plans that will be managed in the future by these enormous values, i.e. large ownership. If part of these funds that we have agreed with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development are managed precisely in the establishment of that system we will be satisfied, because this could ultimately create a more efficient system of governmental property management on the one hand, and on the other hand by defining state policy in the management of what it holds at this time in its portfolio. These economic operators are certainly those who can be found on the privatisation list or for sale, or for liquidation where conditions have been met. There is no need to wait, it is a matter of common sense and logic of capital management and opening new chances for private entrepreneurs. In this respect, the HNS Club, HSU, will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74352	Thank you, counsel. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, distinguished colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. So this is the law on the loan agreement for the development policy of economic recovery. The very name of this law gives us answers to some questions that we often like to argue about. So, at the moment the Economic Recovery Programme was adopted, the World Bank gave the World Bank a green light, so they expressed their agreement that it was on the trail of what they were thinking and thinking. However, counterpart Beus from the HNS club and state secretary also said how many loans the World Bank has given over the past 15 years in the Republic of Croatia. However, what needs to be pointed out, which may not be said enough, are all loans for structural reforms. And now you're automatically asking one question, but you're also automatically giving an answer to that question. If Croatia had not implemented structural reforms over the past period, do you think that the World Bank would, after a new model of financing that was established when the economic and financial crisis in the world began last year, give the Republic of Croatia 200 million credit this year and 150 this year. She wouldn't give it away for sure. However, with this technical data that this is an extremely favourable interest loan, I think that when we talk about this item on the agenda, we need to talk a little bit more, maybe a little more detailed into what are structural reforms that should be financed from this loan and what would they in principle. When you connect them to each other, then you will see that these structural reforms that should be financed from this loan are highly linked, and all going towards a shorter goal of reducing state spending, more rationally using State budget funds. And what's most important and what we're all most sensitive to, which, unfortunately, sometimes quite likes to be used for political purposes, is the means for the social programme to be used in a way that really gets those who need to get them and eliminate those who don't and that in such a way we don't get into positions to reduce social rights rather than eliminate those who don't have the right to social assistance by virtue of certain laws we come into a position to share more funds for social giving. So on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I would say more about the means to be used for certain purposes, so further promoting fiscal sustainability and transparency. What is fiscal sustainability, nothing more than a simple folkly said deficit reduction, a reduction in consumption, so bring a budget to the level where you can finance it and even in certain stages when you have a deficit in the state budget, that this deficit of the state budget to all investors and creditors who want to finance the Republic of Croatia make it clear that this budget is something that is sustainable and something that the Republic of Croatia can finance. Transparency of the state budget. Transparency in spending public funds never enough. Practically, if each day they were to publish what accounts are paid today from which positions you would always find someone who would say that is not transparent enough. And when we talk about the transparency of public finances, it's a constant job, so this job will never end. As funding models develop, as money consumption models develop, so will the awareness of Croatian citizens that they want to have as much knowledge as possible of the spending of these funds. And the logical thing, regardless of what has happened in recent years in the transparency of the spending of taxpayers' money, is that it is still necessary to work on this and the logical thing that, in agreement with the World Bank, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has therefore wanted to continue to work on this fiscal sustainability and transparency. Strengthening the efficiency of public administration. That's the topic and this is when we say it's pretty principled and every day in one debate we can hear that we're dissatisfied with the way the public administration works. But when we talk about public administration, it should also be divided by segments. Some segments are better, some segments are worse, but the same as the transparency of the budget and the functioning of the public administration is something that will be under constant glass of Croatian citizens and as soon as someone is waiting for some paper for more than 5 or 10 minutes or an hour or two, it doesn't matter how much, they will be unhappy with the functioning of the public administration. And the logical thing to do is to reform the public administration, its efficiency should always be worked on, and in the end it will be in a position to reduce the costs of public administration, and on the other hand Croatian citizens will be more satisfied with the functioning of the public administration. Strengthening fiscal discipline in the health system. There will be room and time when we talk about budgeting for 2010 to see how much that healthcare costs us. And on the one hand, we have when we talk about the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, when we talk about payloads, then we'll all say that the contribution to health insurance is high. On the other hand, when we see that this is insufficient to finance all needs and rights defined by the Health Insurance Act or by some other laws, and on the other hand, when we see that it is 21 or 22% of the state budget, then we all worry. And the logical thing, of course, is to take care of the sustainability of the fiscal system at the level of the general state, so it should be seen how to improve both functionally and financially this health system, on the one hand, to be more efficient, on the other hand, to cost less. It is a perpetum of the mobile and it is difficult to talk about, but it is important that what counterpart Milinovic did with health reforms also make certain things more easily controlled. Strengthening and efficiency, efficiency of social benefits, spending on carefully selected programmes and streamlining the social protection network. And I think this is one question that deserves special attention for the simple reason that, unfortunately, until the adoption of this Law on Social Welfare, this new law that we passed a week ago every city, every municipality, every county has its own social assistance programme whether for political reasons or not. So you see that in some cities in times of economic crisis and budget revenues cuts have come into a position that some populist programmes can no longer finance because they will lead to bankruptcy. But also whether at the state level we must lead an equal social policy. If there's anything we need to think about, then we need to think about it. Why? For the simple reason that many of our fellow citizens have found themselves on the verge of existence and not their own guilt, for one reason or for that reason, and it is not good for those living in a richer city to have far greater social benefits than those living in areas of special state care and in poorer cities. For a simple reason, we need to determine at country level this common social minimum and, on the basis of that, also determine social contributions. Because that was why it went to the introduction of a personal identification number. For the simple reason that on the one hand we have the full property of all Croatian citizens, and on the other hand, that, based on these complete assets, we can determine their assets which have a real right or do not have the right to certain assistance by saying that this personal identification number was also one of the structural reforms projects financed from the World Bank's loan. Strengthening the justice and financial stability of the pension system. Surely one of the most painful Croatian issues for the simple reason that the difference between what is paid for pensions on all grounds and what is collected from the pension contribution is somewhere around -16 billion that must be covered by the tax revenues of the state budget. And when you take that last year's income from the state budget was actually 14 billion, and the pension system deficit is 16 billion, then we can practically say that the pension system is the one that put public finances down. On the other hand, when you look at the average of pensions, then you will see unfortunately that this average is something that certainly does not satisfy the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for the reasons that in the past 30 years we have lived in two different countries, lived in different countries and paid contributions in a different economic environment. And another thing that we all like to throw when we need it for political reasons, which is a question of the second pillar of retirement. So, at the moment 11 years ago when the pension reform was completed and when it was said to be the second pillar of retirement, it was also a plan to increase the rate of retirement for the second pillar of retirement over the years. For various reasons this has not happened, unfortunately, because one percentage point reduction in the contribution of the one to the state budget is a billion kuna less in the state budget. With a pension system deficit like this, you can think about what would happen. It's just one question when we're fighting over whether or not the second pillar, not the second pillar. We need to see what happens to these pensioners in a few years when they retire. And that is why Croatia needs to think very much about pension reform, pension reform that will protect future pensioners. Because unfortunately, at this point in the pension system, we have three, four types of pensioners depending on who is at what stage of his life, his lifespan went into retirement, which the add-ons hooked him up or didn't hook him up. And then, based on the difference just because someone left five or six months before retirement, there was a pension difference of several hundred kunas, making up for certain supplements and lags. And this is one topic that we can't politically argue about for the simple reason why today's opposition when it was in power was doing some sort of intervention in the pension system that led to the difference, and we also later when we were in power we did some interventions that led to certain reasons. Creating an incentive environment for private sector growth. Therefore, increased labour market flexibility and the promotion of labour market participation activities. Now that's the question where very often in political circles he likes to argue with a fig in his pocket. So, on the one hand, we will protect workers from outside, and on the other hand, when we are aware of the facts of such liberal legislation, and that creates certain problems for us, then when we talk to the Croatian Employers' Association, then other stories are told. And for that, the best example was last year's amendment to the Labour Act, which was benign but used for certain political purposes. This amendment to the Labour Act was precisely towards the flexibility of the labour market. Reduction of administrative and... an obstacle to business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's something you should also do continuously. Finally, the reduction of ownership in state-owned enterprises through privatisation and liquidation of state-owned enterprises. When we talk about the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, then we must be aware that most of these companies are unfortunately in such a situation that no one will buy them. You have many tourist complexes for which a dozen or fifteen public competitions have been opened in the last ten years, which virtually no one has appeared even though they are in very attractive positions, in very attractive cities, in cities that have a century-old tourist tradition. So they have all the performances to be tourist interesting. However, they are burdened with a number of commitments from war years and after they are simply market non-interesting. However, we also had a situation that we tried to sell some companies that were in a good situation. In the end, however, it turned out that it is not worth giving the company a wake for why they are doing very well for a simple reason with a certain state intervention. One example is the Croatian Post Office, which today with a new administration, with state intervention, with a hybrid deposit has come to capital and is doing excellent business. And what's very important is the change in government as well, etc. Some political pressures have been eliminated because in business, and especially in finance and political pressures, it is something that simply cannot go with one another because then you lose your criteria. As soon as in finance you lose the criteria the results are a common known thing, and that's negative. Very rarely, something positive happens. So, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I tried to explain why this loan when we talk about Croatia being a high-indebted country is a question when you compare it with EU members, when you take the debt of the general state against GDP, then you will see that Croatia is among the lowest in charge. Or if you take the responsibility or external debt of the general state, take just us a neighbouring country that is a member of the EU that has twice the foreign debt of the Republic of Croatia, when you take the population, but when we take the property of the Republic of Croatia that needs to be economically activated and when you look at these economic potentials, then you will see that the CRO is not as alarming or as dangerous as some say. But we need to be prepared to have certain companies and certain spaces bring in the purpose they belong to, which is that people in them work and earn income and increase GDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74354	Thank you very much. We've got one report of a rectification. Dear colleague Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74355	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of a distinguished colleague, Shucker, when he said this was evidence that in Croatia, the programme that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has brought on the economic recovery plan is a reason that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is giving us this loan, i.e. you said it was a good programme for sustainable economic development of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, this is incorrect because it is not so questionable whether Croatia will get this loan, but rather what the money that will come here will be spent on, because it is almost amazing that we have so far received 48 loans from this bank worth 2.2 billion euros, and we are raising loans for the purpose of economic recovery, and our economy is falling more and more. And we also have the latest data that, at present, the highest indifference rate in the Republic of Croatia is precisely under the authority of Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. It was published here that when she entered the Bane Courts, that the indifference was here, so she raised it by almost compared to the data from 2009 here with 1.2 billion euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74356	Thank you, thank you, fellow Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74357	Therefore, this information is incorrect and we fear that it will be used again for false purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74358	My colleague Shuker didn't speak or mention the Prime Minister. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74359	Thank you very much. Well, unfortunately, again, this business possibility is misapplying. I, my colleague Buric, did not say what you were talking about. However, I would very much like to have a reasoned discussion with you about some things because you are looking at the finances of pears and apples you cannot mix. If you want to compare two things, then you have to bring them down to the same level. And that's the only way. Everything else is purely politics and deception. And if we hadn't made some structural reforms, make sure those in Washington wouldn't have given us this money.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74360	Thank you. We don't have any more club reports. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear fellow Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74361	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If we accidentally analyzed and received statistical data that the two most common words have been used in recent years in Croatia, then surely the first place would be to settle non-payment and borrowing. This has become common communication between citizens and business partners. Debt in itself causes a glimpse, sometimes concerns about the future. Debt very often increases the uncertainty that comes to us. Deploying and covering the real state and image we've got at the moment. But borrowing is very common and the only possible way out for solving problems and borrowing is the only often way out for progress and economic growth. And what's important about borrowing is to highlight a few things. The most important is what reasons led to the need for borrowing, the needs to be met, the intention and purpose of borrowing, the effects of which are expected, the deadline on which the business entity is in charge, the conditions of borrowing, and, consequently, the short-term needs or long-term needs are met. Because short-term needs need to be addressed by short-term funding sources and long-term funding needs. Since this is about the purpose and purpose of this credit for economic recovery development policy, it is obvious that it is a long-term need, it is important to stress that this is an excellent solution because it is a long-term source of funding for 15 years, and the interest rate is extremely favourable and is a total of 2.5%. This has also shown what has so far been found to be the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the best financial partner of the Republic of Croatia and the most correct financial partner of the Republic of Croatia. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development hereby confirms that it respects and respects the Republic of Croatia as opposed to many financial institutions that do not thus refer to the Republic of Croatia. This confirms that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with 2.2 billion so far loans with the most favourable conditions and with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development did the most to maintain economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. These are the two institutions which the Republic of Croatia needs to be highly esteemed and such a relationship. If only such a relationship were business banks in the Republic of Croatia towards the Republic of Croatia, if they applied the same models then the Republic of Croatia would be able to pay at least a billion kuna annually less interest to finance its needs, which it paid by borrowing from business banks in Croatia. Cheapest source of funds from business banks in the Republic of Croatia was created by firing, reducing the minimum reserve rate of the Central Bank or by abolishing certain rates, border rates. At these funds, the business banks had an interest rate of 0.25% and that, by any chance, they have a relationship with the country where they operate as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development then the same funds with a very good profit could be placed in the Republic of Croatia at 2.5% to 3% and in such cases a billion kuna per year the Republic of Croatia would have less interest only. But business banks in the Republic of Croatia use the needs of the Republic of Croatia exclusively to create extra profits. Their funding model for Croatia's needs shows a particular model with a certain amount of contempt for the country in which they operate and in which they make huge extra profits. This is an example of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the deadlines on which loans and interest rates are provided as they relate to their partner and as they are valued and respected by one of the countries with which they operate. Thank you very much, and therefore I support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74362	Thank you very much. No further applications. And the time for reporting is up. The applicant's representative has no need for a final address. I therefore conclude this item of the agenda, we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74363	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan for the Development Policy of Economic Recovery between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. Number 819. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the loan agreement for the development policy of economic recovery between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 110 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74364	And we move towards the agenda on the 3rd item of the agenda, which is - The final draft law on the validation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA programme of cross-border cooperation between Hungary-Croatia" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, the emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z. No. 815. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the act by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we agreed that the debate should take place in an urgent procedure under Article 159. The Rules of Procedure mean that we combine first and second readings. The amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Reports from the Committee's session were received at the session. On behalf of the promoter here is Mr. Carlo Đuresic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. He wants to take the floor first? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74365	Dear Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and distinguished parliamentary representatives. These proposals on the validation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission relate to the implementation of IPA cross-border programmes with neighbouring countries, Member States of the European Union, Slovenia, Hungary and Italy under the Adriatic programme. The financing agreements with the Member States shall be signed for a period of several years. The government of the Republic of Croatia decided at a session held on 25 March 2011 to launch a procedure for the conclusion of these agreements for cooperation programmes with Slovenia, Hungary and in the framework of Adriatic cross-border cooperation with Adriatic. The financing agreements entered into force on 25 March 2011. In order for these agreements to be applied in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to adopt laws on their validation. The financing agreements mentioned above are the continuation of financial agreements for 2007 and 2009 and will, after its conclusion, form the basis for the free use of financial resources to be used in the framework of projects of assistance and cross-border cooperation programmes. Between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, and between the countries participating in the Adriatic cross-border cooperation programme and the Republic of Croatia. Cross-border cooperation for IPA 2010 and 2011. So far, the Republic of Croatia has concluded financing agreements for the period 2007. In 2009, worth 125 million 473 and 56 euros. A total of 105 million 506 and 462 euros will be allocated by this agreement or by the adoption of these laws in those programmes for 2010 and 2011. Under the proposed agreements, 16 million and 234 thousand and 917 euros for a cross-border cooperation programme, Hungary-Croatia. 13 million 222 000 and 350 euros for the cross-border Slovenija-Croatia programme and 76 million 49,000 and 195 euros for the Adriatic cross-border co-operation programme. I would especially like to point out that the use of these programmes so far has been higher than 90% of the funds reserved, which sets these programmes apart as an example of good practice. It can also be established in all three programmes that Croatia as a candidate country is fully equal to the Member States, because, within the framework of the programmes and projects of cross-border cooperation, it is successfully using equal rules and procedures intended for members of the European Union, which it only speaks to itself about the exceptional level of competence of the Republic of Croatia to use the European Union's money. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes to adopt these laws by emergency procedure in order to enable users from the programming area to carry out their projects neatly within planned deadlines and agreed dynamics, all with a view to further strengthening good neighbourly relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74366	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. We move to a debate by clubs, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished counterpart Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74367	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about this law, it is certainly important to say that the main objective of cross-border cooperation is the programme that encourages the creation of cross-border networks and partnerships and the development of common cross-border action to revitalise the economy, protect nature and the environment and strengthen social cohesion. The additional objective is to build the capacity of local and regional (regional) self-government individuals with EU programmes, and to prepare for the management of future cross-border cooperation programmes within the EU Structural Funds. Cross-border programmes are intended for units of local and regional (regional) self-government and public institutions, funds and institutions, agencies established by the state or local and regional (regional) self-government in the field of research, development, education, health care, nature protection and cultural heritage and tourism. Private institutions established by companies to meet the need for general interest as long as they work on a non-profit basis, NGOs, chambers of commerce, agricultural, craft and industrial clusters registered as non-profit legal entities to agricultural organisations and cooperatives. The Secretary of State has also talked about everything here, and it is important to say that implementation of the programme through the IPA cross-border cooperation component will take place according to so-called. shared management, which is the system of implementation of the EU programme in which management responsibility is retained by the European Commission's central centre in Brussels. Monitoring and evaluation of programmes and projects shall be carried out for the purpose of systematic monitoring of the implementation and assessment of the impact of the activities and measures and shall serve as a corrective mechanism in the event of non-compliance with the envisaged results or non-compliance with the agreed deadlines. The monitoring of EU funding projects is currently being carried out in Croatia through the Joint Supervisory Board. Certainly when we're talking about this law here, it's primarily about the development of the economy. Croatia and Hungary have shown relatively intense economic growth over the last decade. The Croatian economy has recovered from the economic recovery caused by the war. But at the same time, we know that we have been hit by a global and economic crisis, and no matter what we have said, it has certainly been the economic downturn of the world. Also here, progress in GDP growth per county is shown. And by comparing also GDP growth in Hungary, then we can certainly say that since by yesterday the same countries were and were not in the EU, it shows that GDP growth in their counties was about the same as in the Republic of Croatia. Also when we talk about agriculture, then in Croatian counties there is a lot of importance, unlike Hungarians, in which the importance of the agricultural sector has decreased significantly after the economic transition. Also when we talk about industry, the manufacturing sector provides a fairly significant share of added value in the border area. It is certainly important to note that all these financial agreements are the continuation of the financial agreements concluded in 2007 and ninth years and will be the basis for the free use of financial resources in both the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Hungary following their conclusion. The total value of all these agreements, which is very important for Croatia for Hungary, is over 105m euros for Slovenia, with Hungary and Croatia being able to use 16m euros, Slovenia and Croatia 13m euros. And the Adriatic cross-border co-operation of 76m euros. Of course, funding agreements with EU Member States are signed for a multi-annual period. So far, the Republic of Croatia has concluded financing agreements for the period 2007-2009 as I have said at the amount of 125 million kuna. It is also important to say here that I come from Požega-Slavon County, and my town of Pleternica that we have just taken advantage of the opportunities of pre-accession funds from the IPA programme and that in our town therefore we are a small town, the town of Pleternica used this advantage over 1 million euros, therefore EU funds. These are exactly the programs and projects that have been used not only in the Pleternica but also in the area of the town of Pakrac, and these are the projects that guarantee that we will do everything in our field with these grants to ensure the future of our youngest for which we actually live, which is in any case the future that through these programs we build objects that will employ people and give us security through these means. These are projects, I'll list 4, 5 projects, a technology-innovation centre with an incubator that is especially important at the moment for the development of a small town like this in the industrial zone where we will try to attract as many of those who want to start their own economy, those who start with their economic activity, and in this particular incubator they see their future, and we as the leaders of the local self-government and citizens of the Pleternica site, in any case we are sure that these programs will bear fruit. The project has provided 830,000 euros in grants. Also another important project in Pleternica is "The Flower Future" where the holder of the City of Pleternica, where 108000 euros of grants are also provided. Also a project called "Pleternic Partnership for Education and Employment". Since the town of Pleternica has its settlements cca 13000 inhabitants we certainly want in its midst regardless of what is close to Požega we have a high school, we want it in the Pleternica. That is why we are using this project to provide our citizens with also a high school in Pleternica because today more than 600 students travel to Požeg on a daily basis. Therefore, this 84,000-euro project also gives us a guarantee that we will succeed in our programme and that in the next period of time we will have secondary education in order to reduce the costs of parents sending their children to our town of Požeg because today, traveling by rail or bus line definitely requires significant costs for each parent. Also a project at the Marble Bees Platform, where we have also provided 94000 euros of grants in the European Union. And as you can see, colleagues and colleagues, in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union and small cities can make their wishes come true if they have people who know how to write projects. We have witnessed here in Parliament where many people have said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not allowed them today in power to implement their projects through the European Union, and this is exactly one indication that small cities such as Pakrac, Plekernica in Požega-Slavon County can achieve their goals. Some cities may say these are small funds, but a million and 200 thousand euros for the Town of Pleternica, which has its original budget of 6 million kuna, are huge funds. But at the same time, the City of Pleternica invests more than 60 million kunas each year without raising loans at the same time, not to be in debt at the same time, but there are projects, houses on the doors of funds, ministries. And the resolution ministers and those people who recognize the projects meet our demands because they are aware that by granting funds for such projects, they provide security and ensure the future for those who are unemployed, and we have been doing so in local self-government for a long time because that we rely only on our own budget, I'm sure they wouldn't succeed in these intentions that I was talking about. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74368	Thank you, colleague. It is the turn of the Croatian Peasant Party club and distinguished colleague Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74369	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the IPA cross-border cooperation programme Hungary-Croatia under the pre-accession assistance instruments. We at the HSS Club believe that these IPA cross-border cooperation programmes are extremely important, especially because they relate to cooperation with our neighbouring countries, on the one hand, with those countries that are already members of the European Union today, so we can also collect certain experiences and learn something from them, and on the other hand with those of our neighbours who are just about to join the EU membership negotiations, so I believe that they can also learn something from Croatia. The high efficiency of these funds, i.e. those programmes, is precisely with non-member countries of the European Union, showing that Croatia is doing an extremely good job. The percentage of usability of the funds that we share together with colleagues from Hungary and Slovenia say that we are trending here and that this percentage corresponds to the practices of those countries that have also used such and similar funds. In the HSS, we believe that this cross-border cooperation is important for this reason because it forms part of the European Union's cohesion policy in which, of course, Croatia will participate once it becomes a member. Therefore, in the future, the development of Croatian regions through cooperation with its neighbours will contribute to the competitiveness of the regions themselves, as well as to the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. It is known that the Croatian Peasant Party advocates a balanced development and, in that sense, we must act daily at all levels of growing and greater effort to ensure that each environment is provided with adequate and social and social infrastructure, in which I think it is certainly necessary to highlight the efforts of the Ministry of Regional Development, as well as the Croatian Waters and Environmental Protection Fund, which each party in its segment helps municipalities and cities and counties to reach this adequate level of regional development. When we talk about the IPA cross-border cooperation programme Hungary-Croatia, it includes Međimurska, Koprivnica-križevska, Virovitski-podravska and Osijek-Baranja County, but these funds can also be used by the Varazdinska, Bjelovar-Bilogorska, Požega-slavonska and Vukovar-Srijem County, but up to 20% of the total community funding. The programme is primarily intended for county administrations, county institutions, local self-governments, their institutions, development agencies, NGOs, water protection institutions, environmental institutions, national parks and protected natural areas, tourist communities, universities, universities and their non-profit organisations, educational organisations and universities and employment offices, as well as chambers. The most important areas of investment in this cross-border cooperation project between Hungary and Croatia concern sustainable environment and tourism, particularly sustainable tourism in the Mura, Drava and Danube rivers and a sustainable and attractive environment. The second priority is also the development of economic cooperation and common human capacities relating to these two segments. The financing agreement with the Member States of the European Union is signed for a multi-annual period and so far the Republic of Croatia has concluded a financing agreement for the period 2007 to 2009 amounting to more than 19m euros and the total value of this Agreement for the Hungary-Croatia cross-border cooperation programme for 2010 and 2011 is slightly more than 16m euros, while the total value of the programme is from 2007 to 2011. 35 million euros. I must say, in the first public call on which the selected projects were selected, there were 67 applications. The Joint Monitoring Committee has chosen and allocated the funds for 42 projects under the call and the amount is slightly higher than 12m euros, i.e. 89.7m kuna. A second public call opened in autumn, or summer last year. We have information that 75 project proposals have arrived leading partner from Hungary and 19 project proposals leading partner from Croatia. So a total of 94 project proposals. These days we have also seen in the media certain publications that speak in favour of the high efficiency of these funds. Namely, I would just like to single out here, remind myself of some projects financed by the IPA cooperation programme Hungary and Croatia, which are extremely important and actually cover all these different areas that I have listed as an example of agroing. It is a project between the town of Križevci in Croatia and the Peća in Hungary. It is about the cooperation in the area of agriculture of these two cities and the amount is really important. The project is worth 204,000 euros. There are also projects related to maintaining the tradition and customs of old crafts where co-operation has been achieved between Međimurje County and Zala County in Hungary. High schools in Čakovec and Nagv Kanizsi co-operate, and they have also achieved more than 126,000 euros. Project Drava Geo. The objective of the project is to explore the assessment of geothermal energy sources, which would be used according to the European Union environment policy. The target area of the project is the border area of Hungary and Croatia. Or a project that has been achieved between the University of Osijek and the one in Pećah, and the main goal is to create a long-term strategy for education in all fields of legal science and establish a common educational programme. It is also an important project in which Croatian waters participate, and concerns safeguards against floods in the area, so both from the Croatian and Hungarian sides. But there are also projects worth preserving the Croatian national minority along the Mura River and preserving the mother tongue where both Croatian and Hungarian schools are involved. So it is clear from all of this that there is one variety of projects and that there are good projects, and from the information that I have said here in the last days published in the media it can be said that in this second round of competitions, although the funds are still off the record here only when it comes to Osijek-Baranja County for 25 projects designed by their institutions of 3.8m euros. I also have to commend the Development Agency of Osijek-Baranja County, which is an example, because there are professional people employed there. So, not by political criteria, as is the case in some other counties. And you can see when professional people are hired to produce these results, because, just as the county has seen, after withdrawing money from the EU funds is the most successful Osijek-Baranja County with 46.5m euros. Then Zagreb County and then Zadar County. On that scale, unfortunately, there are some other counties. Among them is Sisak-Moslavina County, where it is just an example that experts do not work in the Development Agency, but the coalition partners of the current mayor who are also council members. Some of them and pensioners who have never written a single project in their lives. Therefore, the state itself cannot make efforts to withdraw these funds, and this is about the issuing means available. Efforts must be made at all levels. And we at the HSS Club are in favour, so everyone takes this job seriously. It is about money that can significantly improve the standard of our municipalities and cities, our inhabitants, our rural environments and therefore needs to be approached with due attention. I expect that, within this cooperation with Hungary, there will be more projects that we have initiated from the state level, which I consider worthy of. The process of declaring Mura, Drava, a regional park, lasted a long time. But here, together with our colleagues from Hungary, we are going to be able to propose with this very valuable area, so both Mura and Drava and Danube for a biosphere reservation at UNESCO, which means that with such a single project, five counties on the Mura, Drava and Danube will be able to achieve significant funding for the capacitation of their local environments, to help the local population who wants to stay in rural areas, but of course also to provide social, social and municipal infrastructure that is actually a prerequisite for people to stay in the countryside. Another project that I think is extremely important, and I am proud of it because HSS has worked on it for the past 10 years, is a project that we have run for and which has already received the support of both Hungary and Slovenia and Austria, which is the declaration of the Alps-Adria region free from GMOs. Namely, all the counties in Croatia have been declared GMO free to date. There is no place in Croatia where genetically modified organisms could be dropped. We believe in HSS that it is a good platform to preserve our biodiversity, develop agricultural production, and also develop tourism because I will remind you that exactly 18% of our GDP is tourism and that 25% of all employees are employed in tourism. So these are those branches, those niches that we have to guard and where we need to develop sustainability and economic development. But we can't do it alone, we have to do it with our neighbors. And I'm glad that here's the project GMO free Alpe-Adria zone is a project that has received the support of our neighbours and I believe that together we will be able to achieve significant financial resources for this project as well. To all those who do well, who make good financial withdrawals, I congratulate them on that, I think they're doing the right thing. And for those who are somewhat weaker, let them be seen also in Osijek-Baranja and Zagreb and Zadar County which have achieved exceptional results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74370	Thank you. It is next to the HNS-HSU club and distinguished colleague Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74371	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Taking into account all the forms of pre-accession assistance that the EU is providing us, then we must conclude that we have made the most of the resources available in the segment of strengthening human resources and in the cross-border cooperation segment. It would have been good to have done so in other areas. Why does the EU care so much about cross-border cooperation in Central and Southeast Europe? In fact, we who are a little older, gray heads, remember what they looked like border areas until '89. A year. These were areas with very few populations, areas without economic activity, areas without infrastructure, areas, practically military areas where external enemies were supposed to be welcomed and dealt with there. Unfortunately, there weren't as many outside enemies as there were insiders and now you need to clean up that hole. This is where life needs to be restored, economic operators should be raised, the population should be returned, infrastructure built, and the EU believes that this should be done as soon as possible, this huge capacity used in the best possible way. As far as these three projects are concerned, I'm not going to report on the second and third points, I'm going to say right now that the HNS-HSU club is going to support all three programmes. There is a 15% guarantee for co-financing of technical assistance priorities. It's somewhere, let the Secretary of State correct me, a little less than 900 thousand kunas if I'm not mistaken, and the funds, the grants we're getting, are really big and I'm glad to hear that only in one small Slavonian town have used about 8 million kunas, which is just proof that you need to use these funds effectively and help those cities and municipalities where that assistance is needed. However, to not only remain to praise I will now specifically address the secretary of state and remind him of something that the Republic of Croatia unfortunately has not done so far. In fact, it's easy to cooperate when someone provides you with funds. What did we do and what else could we do to our own forces? I'll remind you. Croatia became a full member of the Council of Europe 15 years ago. Croatia then signed the Madrid Convention and ratified it in this House, vowing to establish cross-border co-operation and allow it at the level of units of local self-government and at the level of units of regional self-government. The Madrid Convention was given over the years after 3 additional annexes were accepted. First, second and third protocol. The third protocol was adopted by the Council of Europe only two years ago, but these other protocols are earlier. Croatia unfortunately has not signed and has not ratified these additional protocols. And what are they talking about? The colleagues and colleagues speak of the first and second protocols being given models of interstate contracts suggesting that the member states of the Council of Europe sign with their neighbours. These bilateral or multilateral agreements speak of the state as encouraging the co-operation of units of local and regional self-government of course within its competences. I'll do it again, within my jurisdiction. Which means, the city's cooperation on one side of the border with the city on the other side of the border in a wide range of areas within its competences. It is not unusual for a Dutch woman to go to work in Belgium in the morning to take her child to kindergarten. It's not unusual for a Dutchman to go to Aachen for a checkup in Germany if he needs it. It is not unusual for an elderly person to go to the House for Elderly People in the Neighbouring State because it is agreed and bilateral agreements have been signed between these countries, allowing units of local and regional self-government, I repeat, within their jurisdiction, to co-operate on the well-being of their citizens. Give your colleagues and colleagues an example of where we and our neighbours have provided such a form of cooperation between our cities and our units, our cities and municipalities. Furthermore, the third protocol speaks of the legal status of joint ventures. Why don't the city and the municipalities on one side of the border form a joint municipal enterprise? The third protocol discusses the legal status of the company, who will audit the company, by which rules will be clearly played. All this has long been regulated within the legal documents of the Council of Europe, which Croatia has been bypassing to sign and ratify in this House for years. It's a genuine cross-border cooperation based on its competences, its ideas and its abilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74372	Thank you. HDSSB's representative club and distinguished counterpart Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74373	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HDSSB Club will support this proposal for a very simple reason. We are in the area of Osijek-Baranja County as this has already been highlighted in the past period established very good cooperation with the competent institutions and we must stress that we are very satisfied with the results achieved only because we are not happy about the situation in the other parts when it comes to the use of these funds but we believe that this will be improved. It has already been said and I will take advantage of the occasion in this debate and remind myself of what was done in the case of Osijek-Baranja County. More than 120 projects totalling 230 million kuna have been approved from the European Commission and other international sources in Osijek-Baranja County so far. In the last three years only in the area of the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County, 43 projects co-financed with an amount of more than 50 million kuna have been approved by the European Commission. In the first competition of the IPA cross-border cooperation, Hungary-Croatia totalled 42 projects were funded with more than 12m euros, and of which, in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, at the address of 25 project partners, there was a certain amount of 2 million 656 000 and 794 euros. I would particularly like to point out that this tender was the first to be implemented on the principle of structural and cohesion funds, which means that users are obliged to finance the first year of project implementation before their funds are refunded, so it is pre-financing. This condition prevents many interested in the application of project proposals to those tenders because they did not have sufficient financial capacity to pre-finance the project in the event of approval. Before I point out certain problems that have been in practice so far have proved that I believe that they are not only a characteristic of Osijek-Baranja and Slavon-Baranja County but of all the counties in the Republic of Croatia. I would also like to say something about what has been achieved through the regional development agency, which has already been discussed by the regional development agency Slavonia and Baranja from Osijek. In the second competition, I talked about the first, the second competition of cross-border cooperation between Hungary-Croatian entities in our county achieved the best result in Croatia, in 25 approved projects, the total amount of grants of 3 million and 838 thousand 927 euros, so I will take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate all the employees of the regional development agency Slavonia and Baranja located in Osijek and as the distinguished colleague said, it shows that when people are selected, not by political resemblance but by expertise, then the results cannot really be left behind and I think that it is convenient and time and place to be congratulated and the director of the Regional Development Agency, the magistrate, or already Doctor Stjepan Ribić, but also all the employees are only 14, but they work diligently and valuable. But let me tell you a few problems that I think you need to point out on this occasion that are not a characteristic of just and specificity of our county, but of everyone. These are the dangers of insufficiently prepared Croatia's entry into the European Union and are based on the following facts. All projects that are ultimately approved for co-financing through the European Union and its funds should be co-financed by the holder and partner in a certain proportion. This ratio ranges from 50 to 10% depending on the competition itself. Most European Union countries are addressing the issue of co-financing and pre-financing by establishing funds at national level from which the funds are allocated to individual projects in accordance with established rules and priorities. What we point to as a problem, which is a solution, is the fact that Croatia has not yet solved the project and does not have this source of funds for the development of project documentation and for co-financing and pre-financing of projects. In fact, the lack of funds at national level for the development and preparation of projects that will be applied to the European Union funds will be, and will be a further problem if we do not solve it. One of the basic preconditions of the application of infrastructure projects to the European Union funds is undermining, possessing all the necessary documentation. Therefore, both construction and location permits, orderly ownership, environmental impact study, depending on the cost-effectiveness study project, sustainability etc. The problem is that most local self-government units have no financial capacity to produce the necessary documentation for these infrastructure projects on their own. The majority of units of local, regional, regional self-government do not have adequate human capacities to prepare and implement EU projects or employees who rule the EU through the methodology of drawing up project proposals themselves. This means that the absorption capacity of funds currently at the disposal of Croatia as a candidate country and the future member of the European Union is at an unsatisfactory level. The fundamental question is who will prepare and implement the projects, because the European Union, or the European Commission, will certainly not co-finance unskilled prepared projects. Croatia's entry into the European Union expects that the annual membership fee we will pay will amount to more than 600m euros. The experience so far shows that there is capacity on the ground for maximum absorption of up to 300m euros annually, which means that if the Republic of Croatia and its citizens remain the situation as it is now, we could find ourselves in a situation at a loss of almost 300m euros, although at the same time there will be more than a billion euros at our disposal for which there will be no capacity to withdraw. If, even in the first year, we manage to apply a little more projects and withdraw at least the amount of funds paid, how each of these approved projects must be implemented with the strict control of the European Union's representatives for the second year, these rare people who have written projects will not be able to write new projects but will be busy implementing approved projects, so that much less funds will also be withdrawn in the second and third years of membership than will be paid into the budget of the European Union. For the sake of poor policymaking which has forgotten strategic considerations, I would say further that Croatia will enter Europe unprepared and we are afraid economically we will be lost because we did not fully prepare to join the EU. So the problem is lack of information and education, even though each programme provided for funding. There has never been a real information campaign so far through which most of the population would be adequately informed of the most basic rights and obligations that the Republic of Croatia has undertaken by joining the EU. For example, take the IPARD programme that showed the defeating results precisely for reasons of insufficient information from potential users and lack of insufficient human capabilities for technical assistance in the preparation of the project. Agriculture will be a sensitive area once Croatia is a member of the EU. The EU's agricultural rules do not have to be a problem in themselves, but the biggest problem is the lack of clear information on what is waiting for us, as our negotiating team has agreed on, and so on. These data are needlessly hidden instead of being the subject of public debate. Finally, the HDSSB is ready to enter Europe but provided that we are prepared with defined development guidelines, strategic documents at all levels, project-making funds and funds to refinance and co-finance projects, by investing in all necessary human capacities so that we can take advantage of the opportunity to join the EU in a quality and complete way. And finally with prepared projects, not just project ideas that are far from realized. The right to prepare for the EU involves one higher level of strategic thinking, setting priorities at all levels, team development and a lot of teamwork and consultation. And finally, once again, the HDSSB club supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74374	Thank you very much. We don't have any more club applications, we're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague, Mato Bilnjic, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague. They said a lot about this agenda point. I will just remind myself that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the EU Commission on 27 August 2007 concluded an agreement on a cooperation programme for EU financial assistance on 13 March 2008 the European Commission adopted an IPA cross-border cooperation programme for Hungary and the Republic of Croatia. This part aims to increase the ecological stability and activities of the Drava River Valley, other rural areas, the creation of a system of sustainable regional development in the Mura, Drava, Danube and other natural and rural areas, economic synergy and cooperation between the two sides, cooperation between medium and small enterprises, exchange of experiences, creation of common products and learning. Development and management of cultural common heritage for the development and conservation of tourism, sustainable environmental and tourism conservation and landscape development, the creation of a sustainable and valuable environment, the development of ecotourism, the traditional use of the country, the development of infrastructure for active tourism and eco-tourism in the river border area, the exploitation of renewable energy sources, the promotion of cross-border labour mobility, joint research, development and innovation. The programme refers to areas that are in the border area that meet the conditions are Međimurje County, Koprivnica-krizevaca, Virovitica-Podravska, Osijek-Baranja County. Although the programme expressed its interests in Varazdinska, Bjelovar-Bilogorska, Požeško-Slavonska, Vukovar-Srijem County. In this programme with these 4 counties and units of local self-government, associations in these areas have the right to apply all of this. And through this programme, what is important for this part of all these below Slavonian counties is that the preservation of cultural heritage is the development of tourism which unfortunately could not develop in Slavonia until 2002 even after that because it was mined. This programme will certainly help to ensure that in Slavonia, as much tourism as it helps to develop this area, we can say that the Republic of Croatia is about 23 countries per tourism capacity, which means that this year we have had 10.5 million overnight stays and that we expect over 57 million overnight stays in this year and that it is cca 6.5 billion euros per year or 15% of GDP. And certainly, the counties that apply, or associations that apply, that will help develop and this part, although they are not some large amount of €16 million or cca 119 million. Although another IPA programme has been discussed today, this is precisely about this cross-border cooperation programme, not just the school-based IPA programme, which works both business and donation support centres, technology parks and economic development not only in the border but also in other counties, municipalities and cities. For all this, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74376	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Frano Matušić is next in line. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74377	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague before me who's already said a lot about this law. What is important to point out is that it really offers a lot of opportunities to local self-government units, in this case to those bordering the Republic of Hungary and indeed opens up the right possibility to develop these units of local self-government in all areas already mentioned here. I would particularly highlight one aspect within cross-border cooperation, so within this component of EU pre-accession assistance, which is primarily a aspect of cultural heritage development and management with the aim of promoting cultural values and traditions and the development of tourism based on it. I think that in Croatia it has not yet matured awareness of how much wealth, how much tradition, how much cultural heritage Croatia has and how invaluable it is and as a cornerstone of economic development. It is through this IPA programme that ultimately offers 16m euros or more specifically something about 120m kuna, somewhere at that level, that can valorize this cultural heritage and put it into the function of the economic development of the end to which it applies and most applies to continental Croatia, to northeastern Croatia and northeast County. I am particularly convinced that this is a potential that has not been used enough so far, but I am as much at the moment and optimistic as the fact that development agencies have taken their work seriously in the preparation of projects and project documentation and that they will certainly take advantage of this opportunity and, as Mr. Secretary of State has already said, that the usability of these funds will be at the level we have so far, which is over 95%. Usability over 95% is an exceptional usability in this part of the cross-border cooperation that we have had so far and I am convinced that this will be the case with these programmes and when we talk about the next points that follow, which is cross-border cooperation with both Slovenia and especially this Adriatic cross-border cooperation that includes more countries, in fact all states that are on the Adriatic Sea, and some of them are not even there but are in the border area. So I think that this aspect of the development of cultural heritage management is extremely important, first of all for our own sakes because we ourselves need to valorize that heritage, we ourselves need to be aware of the values we possess and what our foundations are, which is our identity. And just through this valorisation of the strength of our identity, we are actually providing space and economies, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, with as close as possible to the partners on the other side of the border that tomorrow when we become a member of the European Union will actually be the internal border within the Schengen regime and will certainly facilitate communication between people and of course between economies, between all those who cooperate in all the areas provided for by this pre-accession aid programme. I am not a pessimist unlike some colleagues who spoke here earlier today in the sense that Croatia will very little use of funds. Well, I think it's kind of underestimating all those who have proven during this period that they can use all the resources. There were problems with IPARD, I agree, with IPARD there were problems, but more because of the fact that it was much easier to get funding from the Croatian budget for certain programmes than because it was difficult to meet the conditions or that there were not enough knowledge and enough educated people who could actually do all these procedures that were complex in terms of meeting all the conditions, so that they could meet them. Many people are already educated in the Republic of Croatia. I think that it is more than 2,000 people who have attended specific programmes, courses and how they are educated to be able to monitor these procedures and that they could meet the requirements of those who appear, which are applied primarily by the European Commission. But this system is the same for all, as it is for Croatia, and for, in this case, if we talk about the Adriatic region then it is the same for Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is the same for Slovenia, the same for Italy, the same for Greece, the same for Albania, so nothing new. And the fact is that our people know exactly how to apply and how to withdraw those funds. A particular problem is, and that is, to point out, financing where unfortunately only after the implementation of the project is the European Commission's funding, but this is something that the European Commission is thinking about and knows that it is a problem, especially in environments that may not have been financially developed as well as European countries. In this respect, the European Commission is also considering a different way of funding and perhaps already in advance giving funding so that the discussions are ongoing in the European Commission itself. Furthermore, all the development agencies in our country are obviously ready. Some with fewer, some with more success, but they are all ready and all are aware of their responsibilities and the fact that those who have to draw closer to the units of local self-government users of these pre-accession programmes are the exact facts in which the profit of the funds is possible, for which programs, in which areas, with which partners. And in that sense, I believe that they are aware of their positions, but I say some possess more knowledge, some are more transparently chosen into those agencies, and some are not as said by fellow Petyr, and in doing so may need to look for the causes of ineffectiveness, or ineffectiveness of perhaps individual development agencies. I personally must commend the fact that at this point the Dune Agency from Dubrovnik-Neretva County is very active and that it absolutely meets all the conditions necessary to be both effective and speaking enough about it in support, enough of the programmes that will be implemented through this component of the IPA programme, therefore cross-border cooperation, which is otherwise component number 2 within the IPA and in this sense we can be satisfied with what is realized in that area most southern Croatia, i.e. Dubrovnik-Neretva County. There are countless possibilities for infrastructure development through these programmes and for facilitating communication of goods and services. I'll only mention one of the projects, it's highways. The highways that can be included and are actually included in these programmes and which are an integral part of the entire region, so all of these regions we're talking about. In the case of this first law, we are talking about the cooperation of Croatia and Hungary. Just to remind the Croatian public, there is already a good part of the project, the direction that goes from Budapest to Osijek and continues towards Sarajevo and Ploča, Croatia has already done a good part of this highway and its own resources, and one part will certainly benefit thanks to the European institutions. And the other direction is the Adriatic-Ionian direction that actually integrates this Adriatic region in the right way, which is the highway that should go from Italy through Slovenia through Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope that soon it will finally get by Bosnia and Herzegovina the answer to where the highway corridor should go in the back of Neum because it is extremely important. And of course it continues beyond Dubrovnik County, across Montenegro towards Albania and Greece, and ultimately it is the road to the Middle East. It is absolutely certain that this integration is crucial not only for the economy but for the development of all other forms of cooperation in the Adriatic region. I therefore find it extremely important to point out once again how important it is to recognise and represent this interest of the Republic of Croatia within the Adriatic region in order to integrate fully into the European system as soon as possible. Once again, I note that Croatia's entry into the European Union of this border will, of course, have a completely different function. We become part of the internal Schengen regime, and it will be easier for all the economies to function. Just before my colleague Doric said something that I would disagree with. It was much harder to function and it was much harder to function when you are outside the Shengen regime. Because you can't cross the border every day in a simple way. The best examples are the crossings of the border with the Republic of Slovenia where procedures are as they should be based on Shengen, but they are significantly difficult for people to communicate cross-border every day and in this sense, the fact that Croatia will soon become a member of the European Union will further strengthen our capacities at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74378	Thank you. First one notice. The Committee for Information, Information and Media will hold a session today at 13:30 in the Chamber of Ivan Kukuljevic. And now we're going to the replicas. We have four replicas. First of all, she is a respected colleague of the week, Klaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Matušić, I must tell you that I am really pleased that you have started your individual debate with the cultural links Croatia is making in this case and with Hungary. Just as true patriotism every time you mention your Dubrovnik because it personally makes me happy, because here is the town of Sibenik also as one of the oldest original Croatian cities in the Adriatic has a lot of reasons to find the links you are talking about, and those other than the historical, cultural heritage that is registered in the World Cultural Heritage Register have certainly many links on the infrastructure when you mention the highway as well as the development of tourism, services in tourism, agricultural production, etc. Here, in any case, the resources at our disposal and in the Structural Funds are as large as the Cohesion Fund. But I also share your opinion when you say that we are not sub-capacitated personnel think in regional agencies in regional self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74380	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74381	Thank you. Well, I agree with you, my colleague. Sibenik is certainly a city that is one of the pearls when we talk about cultural values. Dubrovnik, of course, is world-renowned, but there are many other places in Croatia that can get even better valorisation. Just one example to mention, which is little to know about. He's in Europe, so-called. The cultural industry is stronger than some industries that are thought to be extremely strong. Let's say the textile industry is significantly below the cultural industry when we talk about one cultural product. The reason why people come to Prague which is one of the strongest tourist centers is culture. The reason why they come to Dubrovnik is culture, what is heritage, our tradition, architecture which is certainly an extremely important part of cultural heritage. So just like that, we have one of the most beautiful cathedrals in the world in Sibenik, the cathedral of St. Jacob. It certainly is the world's pearl that deserves world valorization. It is only for us to be able to present it in the world, to be able to present it to our now European partners with whom we can join projects precisely on the basis of this base called culture and in this sense sustainable development along with that so-called. The cultural industry that is the base of overall development, which is what we need to understand. Culture is the foundation and should be the foundation of our development. We can certainly do a lot more together.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74382	Thank you. A fellow Buric, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74383	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Matusic, I deliberately went with the replica because it is a very important topic so that we can have the opportunity to say your opinion. What's the problem is that it's not about pessimism when we talk about what's going to happen when we become a full member, it's about objective danger. Because I'm not going to pollomize about the fact that 95% of usability is now. It's not that familiar. But that's not the topic of this agenda point. The problem is that there is a huge difference between pre-accession funds and funds available when we become a full member. Because at this point we are talking about the situation that regional and local self-government have the opportunity to apply to competitions and to projects of maximum value up to a million euros. However, by joining the European Union, Croatia will receive an opportunity and will open up to it the possibility of far larger funds through which it will be able to finance projects up to 10 million euros, while ensuring co-financing of 20% per million or to 10 million euros is not the same at all. So we warn that it is necessary now to think about establishing a fund at national level that will enable units of local and regional self-government co-financing of that mandatory part of our commitment because not all of these projects will be financed by 100%. There'll be one part we'll have to finance on our own. So, we warn about it, you have to think about it. It is in the interest of the entire Republic of Croatia not only of our county, not of Slavonia and Baranja but of the entire Republic of Croatia. And in the end, I'd just say more when it comes to Shengen, you know. So it's not the Schengen border that's going to give us even better use of funds than it's ever been. No, the problem with this is whether we're going to have money to finance our share that we're going to have to finance ourselves. Here's what I wanted to say on purpose, and you have a chance to answer. Because I think there was nothing incorrect about it except maybe the 90%, so I went with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74384	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74385	It's about usability. There have been many pre-accession assistance programmes of the European Union where usability was greater than 90% and greater than 95%. One of the instruments was IPARD where there were about 50 and some percent usability but I said for what reason. So we're ready, we know how. And it will equally be applied to people when we are within the European Union because it is the same way of applying, the same are the requirements. I agree with you that there will be much more resources available, and that is one of the reasons why we should not delay, why we should do everything possible to implement our obligations as soon as possible when we talk about accession. But on the other hand, let's get in a position to use these assets that are significantly, significantly larger. You know for a fact that this envelope has been available financially for the first two years of membership of 3.5 billion euros. So 25 billion kuna. It is simply a huge, huge resource that would be available to all Croatian society completely for all, for social infrastructure, for transport, for all of what we are talking about today, as is available through the IPA project. As for danger, they always exist. They always exist and I agree, I have already answered this through my exposure that it is the way of funding that makes it difficult for certain projects to be realised because a certain institution, whether it is small or medium entrepreneurship, whether it is the municipalities, cities, counties, must be aware and early to provide funds to finance the project and only then actually withdraw these funds from the European Commission, i.e. from the pre-accession assistance programme. And in this regard, I said that the European Commission is already discussing a different way of funding because they are aware of how difficult and demanding it is, especially for those countries that are financially weaker. And as far as I'm concerned I'm saying usability, I don't think we should really be afraid, I can see that here's your county reorganisation, this one as it's called, that the agency certainly knows how to apply well, and it certainly knows how to withdraw funds. I'm sure he'll know how to do his part of the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74386	Thank you. A colleague, Marijana Petir, also reported on the replica. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. When you spoke about the usability of the funds, you should, of course, point out that IPA records really good results, but you yourself mentioned that we did not get the expected results from IPARD. I don't think it should be surprising because the SAPARD has already been extremely complicated, and the IPARD is unfortunately so complicated that only those rich and large companies have enough money to pay expensive consultants who prepare apps. And that is why I in a series of debates here in the Croatian Parliament warn that it would be necessary just to develop the county agencies and departments for pre-accession funds more strongly capacitate, invest in the education of these people, choose excellent people who really know how to make projects and who speak languages. It's the only way to help farmers then. I don't think anyone can expect the family farm to just write an app for such complicated pre-accession funds. On this trail, I also use this debate for another appeal that at least in this segment when we talk about withdrawing funds from pre-accession funds, and later, of course, from cohesion and structural funds, I ignore this politics that is sometimes present at all levels, I will not now a single special apostrophe, and that in these segments I will give space to professional, smart, educated young people and, of course, people with experience who will know how to write quality projects. And I advocate that for family farms they do it for free. Agricultural family economies do not have 5, 6, 10,000 euros each to pay expensive consultants who will meet their applications, which will then, of course, be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74388	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74389	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you colleagues that it is necessary to educate as many people as possible who would be at a disposition to all those who wish to participate in these programmes. But the fact is that through these same programmes, the European Commission is also covering the funding of these very consulting companies that are helping to realise the programme. So maybe it's just that the most important thing is at the beginning of helping these same companies, small companies and small businesses to find the means that they would actually finance that part of the deal until they withdraw the funds. But these programmes provide for funding and consulting companies, preparing the project documentation itself and all that is needed to implement the project. I think that a clear message should be sent to farmers, especially those who have small holdings of agricultural families that actually experience that farmers have in countries that have entered the EU before us, and here I will once again point to Poland as an outstanding example. Poland has just been very skeptical in this part, so among these people, it has been very skeptical among farmers about Poland's entry into the EU. Today, however, Polish farmers, Polish farmers are very pleased. I would say that the most satisfied part of the Polish population is in total with the fact that Poland has entered the EU and that they are withdrawing huge funds from European funds because the budget of the European Parliament, or the EU, is more than 40% of the funds go directly to agriculture. Therefore, we need to send a clear message. Of course, they need to be educated, they need help, they need to be made available to all these agencies. They must actually come to them where they want to and educate them, or give them all the instruments to withdraw these funds, how they report to these funds. I think the funds are huge.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74390	Thank you. And the last report of the replica, distinguished counterpart Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74391	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, in your opening statement, colleague Matušić said one fact that it is easier to get funding from the state budget than from EU funds. Yes! For those municipalities and unprepared cities, which have no personnel to apply to programmes to create a good programme that would ultimately result in EU funds. I'm going to say my example in my Ship-Posavia County, I've already talked about it once, don't get me wrong, but really how we did it resulted in funds, large funds from EU pre-accession funds. So, we've adopted a regional operational plan at Brod-Posavina County. At the head of the regional operational programme, Biljic was a colleague and we immediately established the Administrative Department for Development and European Integration where we experienced great criticism from the media why the accumulation of the administration. Also, the County Development Agency CTR and the two, the Management Department and the County Development Agency, have joined together. But how did you team up? Khedrovski, a human team and were for these municipalities, 26 municipalities and 2 cities that did not have human resources worked for them for free. And applied to EU funds, with an alert eye on the consulting company EKORIS, one Dutch and one Greek who did the same jobs in countries that joined the EU, and we received extraordinary results. About 150 million kuna have been withdrawn and the last IPA water supply, water treatment and water protection program of the town of Slavonski Brod and the ring around Slavonski Brod 30 million euros from 22 million grants. And those smaller projects if the project was set at 400 thousand euros and for example the tender said that he was about 350 other 50 thousand kunas we managed to engage in demining the Ship-Posavina County. These are our experiences. We know that small municipalities where a professional is chief possibly another, two, don't have a team of personnel and why God dearly serves the county. The County serves to help them professionally and in every other way, and we have indeed done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74392	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74393	I agree with you, my colleague fully, the most important thing is that those people who know how to help those who need help prepare applications for pre-accession aid programmes. Your example is obviously good, but I must remind you that through these same instruments, the European Commission is financing actually strengthening administrative capacity. Therefore, the European Union is also aware that there is a need to strengthen the administrative capacities of the Republic of Croatia so that those people who will work on these jobs and educate themselves and, of course, could be financed and that their work could be financed, and in this context I think that funds can be found at the county level to help and educate staff and tomorrow to finance precisely through these financial assistance programmes and administrative capacities, so for all these people who will work on projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74394	Thank you. Just to find out that the time has elapsed for individual hearings. Next up for the debate, dear colleague Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74395	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is good that each of the representatives who report to the debate is talking about another segment so that the picture will be more complete and clear. Of course, it is fully expected that we are in a home where politics is necessary in the job description that we are talking about our local development agencies and that we are also critical of those others who do not respond politically to us, well, and that is not a bad bit of information can be from that if nothing else, competition usually gives birth to quality. I wanted to draw attention to another segment on which colleagues in the debate touched something petty, and I want to particularly underline it and it is very important for the development of the economy and of course of agriculture, especially at a time when agriculture needs to be prepared for entry into the European Union and that is the problem of undeminded agricultural land, which is still around 26% in a total percentage of 800 square kilometers, respectively. This is a job that Croatia cannot do on its own, namely, about 12 more counties or if I want to say how many more money we would still have to allocate it is another 4 billion kuna, and it must not be worth the rule in such jobs that colleagues have already turned their attention to. It seems to me that the first colleague Matušić who said that it is the easiest of course for many to seize from the state budget, is something that needs to be avoided we should try to find our own resources, find our own ways of getting funds and for this important job. I can say that this has partly worked, but I think that in the period ahead of us, when other funds start to be used, this area has to be particularly highlighted and particularly well argued. DO NOT go the wrong picture when we talk about about 800 square kilometers or about 12 counties should say that Croatia is safe when it comes to economic areas or tourist areas, or about roads this part is agricultural land, forest or karst, but in order to be completely clean this job should be finished. It is clear that four billion from the state budget should be avoided because the Ottawa Convention with a deadline of 2019 is certainly very questionable or at least difficult to implement. So far, in the area of demining, there have been good experiences in these projects with non-member countries such as Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Serbia, but from EU member states, particularly with Hungary, where our prime minister and their prime minister specifically insisted that the border be completely cleared. I propose state secretaries to establish a demining priority for the period 2011 to 2013 and to try to withdraw more funds in order to implement a serious international convention like Otovaska. Not all of them are equally successful, I think locally, but I have to point out especially the Osijek-Baranja County, which has been particularly highlighted in the search for funds, in the search for priorities, and in cleaning, however, unfortunately, it is still in three of the most polluted ones. A solution to what I suggest you put under priority for 11-13 years of demining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74396	Thank you very much. We have now reported a replica, a distinguished colleague, Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74397	Thank you, colleague Adlesic, for mentioning the problem of demining, today mentioned here in Zadar County as a good example of the use of funds from the European Union funds. So let me remind you that from the CARDS programme, Zadar County used 2m euros to demining the fertile agricultural areas of Zadar County. The funds from the social and economic recovery programme of the Republic of Croatia could also be used, meaning from the World Bank programme for which these funds are also intended, and I suppose we have not forgotten that the World Bank immediately allocated significant demining funds to the Republic of Croatia during the post-war period. And I agree with you that we should certainly be in the future programmes much more seriously represented this area because yesterday we talked about it, 25% less than 200 km square is still fertile agricultural areas below mines and development in agriculture is not more significant without the release of this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74398	Thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74399	Thank you, dear fellow Members, for this support, I hope that we will all be equally convincing together in this period that I repeat from 2011 to 2013 before all the counties were equally successful, they were not equally teamed, of course that it always depends on the individuals who did this job. I have to say that I know that you worked and worked and did a lot, and I'm going to say that three are still the most polluted with hard work and Osijek-Baranja, Lika-Senjska and Sisak-Moslavina, and that we would really reduce that picture, so that we would make this 25% seem like 26% of the agricultural land we put in a position to be more competitive, please appreciate that the various political parties are proposing the same things.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74400	Thank you. Correction of the quote, colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I have to correct the incorrect allegation of the distinguished colleague Adlesic that the urination of Prime Minister Kosor has come to the conclusion that Croatia is now included in this project along with Hungary's demining. That's exactly what you said, thanks to the urgation, okay. A phonogram can be listened to, so along with the Hungarian prime minister and Prime Minister Kosor. It's an incorrect allegation because it was supposed to be objective after all. It is a shame for our diplomacy and for our representatives in the EU that when funds were to be applied for demining, an objective problem was simply forgotten in Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74402	Correct my colleague Bruc's quote. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74403	This resulted in us being put into this second competition together with Hungary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74404	Do Not Abuse Businessman So you fixed it so that colleague Adlesic now says that he has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: I only corrected an incorrect quote.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74405	Thank you very much. My colleague... you didn't make me cry, but I believe that wasn't my intention. So, the article is the 209th Vice President, and I have no intention of specifically warning about the violation of that article, because if we don't understand each other or pretend that we don't understand each other, because politics seems like such a job, I just want to draw attention to the truth that is different if you look at phonograms. I admit the agency's merits, and I've talked about them and a team of people working on it from Osijek, but I said two prime ministers specifically underlined that program. I don't know why that fact bothers you so much. Not just them, not just you, but each other, and it would be good if we both did that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74406	Thank you. Replica, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74407	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues fully agree with you that it was certainly an important moment for Prime Minister Kosor and Prime Minister Orban to underline the importance of these programmes, but in addition it is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the one who signs these joint programmes or contracts proposed by the Croatian Parliament for adoption as laws. So, they're the ones that provide us with that later on, that various agencies across different counties and various institutions from municipalities, cities, from small and medium-sized entrepreneurs would report on all these programmes. So, of course, this thing starts from where you said it and should certainly commend that initiative to take a special focus on this problem that is extremely big, for Croatia is extremely important primarily for the safety of people, for the safety of all Croatian citizens, for all those who come to Croatia, so first of all for their safety and then, of course, for the economic benefit of these areas which are of course very economic agricultural potentials. And in this sense, it is truly deserved that you said that this should be particularly focused and that particular attention should be paid and that significant financial resources should be located specifically for this programme, which tomorrow will certainly mean more intensive developments in the economy, and above all in agriculture in the areas of which you have spoken.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74408	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of colleague Adlešič.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74409	Thank you very much. Of course the Rules of Procedure is such that I will respond to the replica, fully expected but it is pleasant to admit when you have colleagues and colleagues who actually agree, and both political options have agreed that it is a project that is necessary. So what we should be working on should really work to make it clear to everyone from 2011 to 2013 that Croatia, regardless of what is a safe country and tourism and economic, should stop being a demining country and perhaps not conflicting, rather than competing in speed and efficiency and teamwork because this seems to be a problem with local development agencies and a huge difference in the results of local development agencies is seen by whether they are appointed politically or appointed according to expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74410	Thank you very much. It's time for the debate, dear colleague of the Sunana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74411	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here we have heard, and I can now relate to my colleague Adlesic exactly agree with you that there is a difference between the county and the county of what human resources or capacities are, or how the agencies are set up, so I will say that Međimurje County is the second to withdraw funds. And in 2007, when the agency came to life, so the Međimurje Development Agency knew how to apply how it could be done. They're all young and professional people, and I think they're doing a great job. Of the 102 million kuna or 3.9 million euros in the second call, I must say that a total of 16 projects from Međimurje County are approved, which makes up a third of the selected projects of about 3.9 million euros, which I think is a great job, that it is done in a massive procedure and that it has results. I'm going to point out separately, even though there's a lot of talk about it, for example, the funds have been withdrawn for waste water treatment systems, for sewers, then for improving information-innovation incubators, for industrial parks, for economies. The same means were also withdrawn for the development of the local economy, and the programme particularly concerned young people in the development of the local economy. It has also been applied to programmes related to the preservation of ethnic heritage, and for example, together with Hungarian partners, it is applied to a programme that is being promoted and not to be forgotten, for example, authentic dances and songs for people living next to Mura, who live by the river, who live together, so on the border. Then for maintenance and restoration of heritage, employment services programmes, for example together for success, etc. So, the Međimurje County is one of the examples of how this can be done, how projects can be done if you know which way and I don't think we should say first of all that something is complicated, but we should talk about people having to be professional, educated, and then this will also result in these withdrawals. When we speak in total from the first competition, there is also an increase in the number of applications. The first call was 67, the second one 94, and the approved projects 59. The next call will be in the autumn of 2011, and therefore I think it is an opportunity to, together with its partners, apply to the programmes. So I will specify another programme from the Međimurje County, which is the bearer of the project Međimurje Voda, REDEA and CHACRA, so the REDEA County Agency, the CACRA City Agency. It's about what happened. The project "Sprint" aimed at fostering economic growth and competitiveness by linking companies and scientific and research institutions in the border area. So it will be about preserving the heritage of Zrinski, preserving the folklore treasure, and of course 40 entrepreneurs and scientific institutions will be connected, and I think it will be a good ticket for their further economic cooperation. When Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union, we will have partners here with whom we have already cooperated. Supporting knowledge-based development, culture, intensive socio-economic ties, management of common natural and cultural heritage, all this provides numerous opportunities to achieve a wide range of projects. And here, of course, I will rely on what my colleague Adlesic used to say, as well as colleagues from other counties, although Međimurje County does not have the problem, and it is about untapped areas. I certainly believe that there will be ways to withdraw funds and for this problem which is still burning in the Republic of Croatia. In any case, success depends on those who run the agencies or those who run the county and that it is not crucial what policy options are but how capable they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74412	Thank you very much. We have one replica reported. Dear colleague Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74413	Here, colleague, you mentioned the training of staff in your county. I think this is a convenient opportunity in this replica to mention the Regional Development Days organised by the Ministry of Regional Development at the beginning of this week. There was a whole series of workshops, round tables, two workshops: one on cross-border cooperation, another on transnational cooperation. And I'd like to make a proposal and take advantage of the State Secretary's presence. I saw that there was a great deal of interest, there were over 500 present people from the county, cities, municipalities and not only the mayor, but the headmaster, director, director of agencies and staff obviously eager and hungry for that knowledge. It might not be a bad idea to consider organising a workshop in the county so that, although we have said that people are already well-educated enough, we have good administrative capacity, but it seems to me that there is still room for the ministry to behave regionally rather than centristically. So not that they're coming to you in one place, but that you're going to the county, that you're holding workshops there so people can get dressed and that they can use their knowledge as much as possible, because they certainly have something to say to each other. It is not only that, it is also about cooperation between local administration units and self-government, which are those not within the European Union, where the Madrid Convention, which Mr Doric had just talked about. I think given our neighbors, there's plenty of room for such cooperation. But it is a fact that we did not sign Protocol 3 and I think this is an opportunity for the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government to launch that initiative and to ratify Protocol 3. Since I took part there on behalf of the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe has warned and sent a recommendation through the Congress of Local Regional Authorities to ratify this Protocol 3 in Croatia as well. This is a proposal I use to publicly tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74414	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74415	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuica, I will support your proposal and perhaps just supplement it. Here we have heard, there are more successful and less successful counties. We will leave only that finding or one question that was raised here during the debate, and that is whether some of them are sure that they will receive money from the state budget, so perhaps for that reason they do not decide under allegations of application in projects. But in any case we have successful counties, we have experts there who can share their experiences with those who may be only in conception, Međimurska, Zadar, Osijek-Baranja, does not matter. And I think this is a good proposal, that we should agree to gather in one place all the agencies that already exist in Croatia to exchange experiences and, of course, educate those who are in this let's say less successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74416	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. I think the debate was very and correct and concrete and confirmed and sent a clear message because we who received it years ago were the first to come to Croatia to the Assembly by detachment of the funds of pre-accession funds then it was thoroughly said that these were trainings for you for something that followed. We see that in many areas, but in many areas, these trainings are well done, and that means that we will also prepare for what is next, or that we are prepared. I'm closing the third point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74417	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA programme of cross-border cooperation Hungary-Croatia" under the Instrument of Pre-accession Assistance, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 815. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA cross-border cooperation programme Hungary-Croatia" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of 110 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74418	Since the 4th and 5th item of the agenda are also related to the same problem, I propose that we bring these two points together - the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA Programme of Adriatic Cross-border Cooperation" under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 816 - Final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA Programme of Cross-border Cooperation of Slovenia-Croatia" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 817 For one and the other, the urgency is also established. We've received the materials. The promoter is the government. The same committees meant legislation and the Committee on Finance, the state budget held meetings. It is the same representative of the applicant. Do you agree to put these two points together? You agree. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, would you like to introduce these two points? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74419	Dear Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and distinguished parliamentary representatives. These two united points are not very different from the first point I've explained, and so they differ in numbers, so I'm just going to brief you on what it's all about. Therefore, these legislative proposals on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concern the implementation of IPA cross-border programmes with neighbouring Member States of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia and Italy under the Adriatic programme. The financing agreements with the Member States shall be signed for a period of several years. The government of the Republic of Croatia decided at a session held on 25 March 2011 to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of these agreements. In order for these agreements to be legally applied and in the Republic of Croatia it is necessary to adopt laws on their validation. These financing agreements have been concluded for 2007 and 2009 and will, after its conclusion, form the basis for the free use of financial resources to be used in the framework of projects to assist cross-border cooperation programmes between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia and between the countries participating in the Adriatic Cross-border Cooperation Programme. It is eight countries: Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Albania, Serbia and Greece under the 2010/2011 IPA cross-border cooperation component. A year. So far, the Republic of Croatia has concluded funding agreements for the period 2007-2009 amounting to €105 million per programme between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia of 15 million 724 and 620 thousand euros. And for the IPA cross-border programme of Adriatic cooperation 90 million 441 thousand 137 euros. These agreements, i.e. the adoption of these laws in those programmes, will allocate 89 million euros for 2010 and 2011, i.e. under the proposed cross-border agreements with Italy 13 million 222 000 and 350 euros and for the cross-border Adriatic cooperation programme 76 million 49,000 and 195 euros. I would especially like to point out once again that the current usability and these two programmes have been higher than 90% of allocated funds. Especially with Slovenia about 90 and coma two, and for the Adriatic cross-border co-operation 95 coma four. So these two programmes are also set aside as examples of good practice in withdrawing European money from pre-accession funds. Normally this is just a school and a gym for what awaits us in the future, i.e. for cohesion and structural funds where the funds are tens of times larger than today's. Croatia as a candidate country is so fully equal to the Member States, because, in the framework of these programmes and projects, cross-border cooperation has successfully benefited from the same rules and procedures that are intended for the Member States of the European Union, as it once again speaks in favour of what level of competence we are at to use the European Union's money. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes the adoption of these laws by emergency procedure in order to enable users from the programming area to carry out their projects neatly within the planned deadlines. And of course agreed dynamics, all with the goal of further strengthening good neighbourly relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74420	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. We're going to the clubs. The first is the HDZ Club, and according to its preparation, they have agreed to share the time, so on behalf of the club, they will speak first of all to the distinguished colleague Nevenka Marinovic, and afterwards to the esteemed colleague Milivo Škvorc. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74421	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am, at the very beginning, going to express a pleasure like this, and the pride of Zadar County has been mentioned quite often today as one of those who has quite well withdrawn the European Union's funds. I would like to begin by congratulating, meaning Zadar County, all the employees of Zadar County, but also all their partners in these programmes that have contributed together here to be at the very top of the European Union's withdrawing funds. And I want to thank Mariana, and here's the one who congratulated us on that. But I also want to congratulate Osijek-Baranja County because we have shared both good and bad from the beginning, and good and bad experiences related to problems with European funds. Here's where I'm gonna stop and start my debate. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the IPA programme of Adriatic cross-border cooperation under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance with the final proposal. We have already heard that the framework agreement, meaning between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, was signed in August 2007 on rules for cooperation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Union and the Republic of Croatia in implementing aid under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. The Croatian Parliament also confirmed it in October of the same year, and this March 25th of this year the Commission adopted the Adriatic 2008 Programme means the Adriatic Cross-border Cooperation Programme. It is therefore necessary for the implementation of this programme to conclude a financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission in order to determine the conditions necessary for the delivery of assistance to the EU, the rules and procedures relating to the payment of this aid and the conditions under which this assistance will be managed. I would like to remind you that the programme for which the programming process was implemented means supporting cooperation between Croatia, Greece, Italy, Slovenia, Albania, BiH, Montenegro and Serbia from April 2006 to July 2007 in order to revitalise the economy, protect nature and the environment and increase the social cohesion of the programme area. As an additional objective, it was to build capacity for local, regional and national EU governance institutions and prepare them to manage future cross-border programmes under Objective 3. – EU cohesion policies. The Government of the Republic of Croatia means it has decided to initiate a procedure for the conclusion of a financing agreement containing Appendix A – the IPA programme of the Adriatic Cross-border Cooperation for Community Assistance under the IPA for Component Cross-border Cooperation adopted by Commission Decision and Appendix B which includes the Framework Agreement. The agreements therefore entered into force on 25.03.2011, and they were the continuation of the financial agreements concluded for 2007 and 2009. The implementation of the programme shall take place according to the shared management in which the management responsibility is maintained by the European Commission's central centre in Brussels, and the monitoring and evaluation of the programmes and projects shall be carried out for the purpose of systematic supervision of the implementation of the impact assessment of agreed activities and measures and shall serve as a corrective action. The monitoring of projects in the Republic of Croatia is carried out by the Joint Supervisory Board. I will remind you, colleagues and colleagues, that the entire programming area of Adriatic cross-border cooperation covers an area of 115 thousand 714 km square and numbers a little more than 15 million inhabitants. Italian areas at NUTS level 3 are very important and represent 47% of the area and almost 69% of the population. Croatia about 21% and so 1.5 million inhabitants. These include all Adriatic counties, but we also have an associate member of the Karlovac County who can also withdraw funds from this fund. In accordance with the multiannual indicative planning documents of candidates and potential candidates and other regional strategic documents and results previously, it means from the basic analysis, SWOT analysis, but... evaluations are defined strategy and the setting of the objectives of this programme. This programme is based on cooperation between 4 candidates, potential candidates and 3 Member States allowing the participating countries to undertake joint development activities, but aims to improve relations in the Adriatic basin and stabilise them by promoting sustainable and balanced development. On the basis of the agreed principles, and agreed precisely at this level of the programme, these are common benefits, partnership, sustainable development, equal integration opportunities, territorial areas and strengthening competitiveness, the objective of the programme is also defined: that this is to strengthen the sustainable development of the Adriatic region in line with the Action Strategy between partners with acceptable areas. And the priorities are defined as follows: the first priority is to strengthen innovation research in order to improve the development of the Adriatic area through economic, social and institutional cooperation and it belongs to 30% of the funds. The second priority is to promote the development and protection of natural cultural resources through joint management of technological and natural risks. We believe that it is extremely important for us because we know that the Adriatic Sea is an example of an extremely clean and preserved sea, we want to keep it, and although we have suggested that most of the funds go exactly in this direction, the agreement was that 30% of the funds go to this priority. The third priority is to strengthen the integration of existing infrastructure networks, promote and develop transport, information and communication services, which also received 30% of the funds from key sources and the rest belongs to technical assistance. Each of the above priorities means that the programme has been developed to measures and activities to achieve the objective defined at the outset. In order to achieve this objective, it was also necessary to define the management of the programme, so the governing bodies, the management and implementation, the certification body for the verification of the costs incurred and the audit authority are thus established. And the very structures of the programme make up the Joint Monitoring Committee, let's say Zadar County has one member in this Joint Monitoring Committee, the Management Committee and the Joint Technical Secretariat. This confirmation of the Funding Agreement means that a legal basis is created for the use of grants for projects to support the 2010 and 2011 programmes, the way in which financial resources are provided for the implementation of the Agreement is determined by the central authority of the State Administration responsible for the implementation and the date on which the agreement enters into force. I want to point out here that the first competition from this program is over. That there were a lot of applications or reported projects from the Republic of Croatia. The signing of the contract is under way for 33 projects with 39 Croatian project partners totaling less than 15m euros. The signing of this Agreement will allow the preparation and publication of a second call for proposals in the Adriatic cross-border cooperation programmes. An announcement is expected in July that should last under these rules sometime by October, so here I am, colleagues and colleagues, and I will take this opportunity to invite all those who have something to say about the candidacy in this programme to, to prepare, say it precisely during that period. Because here are the cross-border programmes for local and regional self-government units, all their public institutions, agencies, institutions, many of them from the field of research, and here are the university community's calls because they can participate in this, nature and cultural heritage associations of tourism, all in accordance with that programme I talked about and all non-profit organisations, clusters, agricultural associations, cooperatives, etc. Therefore, it means calling on all of them to be prepared after the adoption of this Agreement for competitions under this Programme. Although some believe it is not so I believe that we in the Republic of Croatia have a large number of counties that have a huge potential for preparing the Republic of Croatia for European funds. Now they already have their own development strategies, they have their own development agencies, some more than one. Most also have experience in using all generations of European funds and this is an opportunity to show both their abilities and their capacities and show and test. And their willingness and activity will depend on the results of this programme. As far as this programme is concerned, the state has made its part, prepared agreements, provided funds and has now provided for others to engage actively and take advantage of this opportunity that the state has prepared for this programme. Here, therefore, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I support the adoption of this Agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74422	Thank you. Here, we heard Međimuska, Slavonska, Adriatic experiences, let's hear some Zagorska. A fellow Schwartz.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74423	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few words on the proposal for a law on the validation of the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission, the IPA programme for cross-border cooperation between Slovenia and Croatia under the pre-accession assistance instruments. The IPA cross-border programme of Slovenia and Croatia aims to promote a balanced sustainable development of the border area of the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia through successful management of natural, cultural heritage and intense socio-economic interaction between 2007 and 2013. It is about the legal and financial instruments of the European Union aimed at improving cross-border cooperation at the external borders of the European Union between candidate countries and Member States. The Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia accepted the joint IPA operational programme Slovenia, Croatia 2007. – 23013, which met the basic conditions for the development of cross-border projects, both countries worked together. That there is a great interest in this programme is evidence that this programme has been run by 182 projects. It should not be ignored that in the annual review of the implementation of the 2010 programme, the European Commission has assessed the IPA programme of cross-border cooperation between Slovenia and Croatia's most successful IPA programme of cross-border cooperation at the external borders of the European Union. Here in the atmosphere of full tolerance that the government today morning I must also commend all those who worked on programs in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County who received the fact that the total value of projects is 2.6 million for the Krapina-Zagorje County area. I would be even more satisfied if more units from Krapina-Zagorje County were to appear as applicants and users of this project but it was not for now so I am appealing to all those who have to make a certain preparation to help one problem that is evident and that is the fiscal capacity of our local units that I have to say that the original revenues of 580 kuna per capita and up to 1800 is not unreasonable to say that a local unit that has great needs and that the revenues can be difficult to apply alone, and I believe that the development agency that is one part of the most founded to help local units and economies and all others who can apply to this programme will do everything to unite and knowledge and opportunities in the ultimate goal of making the most of exploitation and pre-accession and especially access funds. Finally, HDZ will also support the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74424	Thank you very much. The Croatian Peasant Party Club and distinguished colleague Marijana Petir are coming. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club will support both these proposals of the Finance Act between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the IPA Programme and the Adriatic Cross-border Cooperation and Cooperation with Slovenia. I would like to stress that in previous discussions there have been a number of words, perhaps just some principled data and remind myself that over the past 15 years the European Union has allocated 1.3 billion euros to finance projects in Croatia. So far, the institutions, associations, institutions, other entities have managed to negotiate, withdraw around 650m euros, the largest part of that money that has just been agreed on is coming through a 750m-euro IPA programme, and this is a programme that is now under way in the Republic of Croatia and we can use it until it enters the European Union. So far, projects have been agreed through the programme, slightly more than 142m euros. The programme operates through five components, assistance in transition and strengthening institutions, regional and cross-border cooperation, regional development, human resources development and rural development. When we talk about cooperation with Slovenia during the period 2007-2011, the total IPA allocation is 28.4m euros for both countries, including technical assistance for the programme. As part of the first competition, just over 14m euros were available, 112 project proposals finally arrived when budget cleaning was carried out, a total of 21 projects were agreed. Under the second tender, nearly 12m euros were available, 183 projects or project proposals arrived, 22 projects to be negotiated during May 2011. Under the IPA, the Adriatic cross-border cooperation programme, the overall allocation for the implementation of the 2007-2011 programme, amounts to just over 166m euros for all participating countries. The overall contribution of the programme made available in this call for the delivery of the proposal was slightly higher than 63m euros, a total of 282 project proposals arrived at the tender. Of these 282 project proposals, partners from the Republic of Croatia participated in 166 and the administrative check went through a total of 134 projects. The second call is expected during the summer months of this year as well as defining the exact location and duration of the competition. Given that these programmes are extremely important, it is essential to encourage all those identified as potential project holders to become more qualified and tendering. And since we are also talking today about a programme that particularly includes the Adriatic, I would like to express my special satisfaction here with the latest measurements that have been re-established that this year the Adriatic is the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean. I think that all of us need to be happy together and that we all need to work harder together to make the last possible activities that are related to wastewater disposal when we talk about the Adriatic successfully. Because, namely, the priority of the Republic of Croatia and in these integration processes when we talk about environmental protection is waste and waste water disposal. It will be necessary to provide a little more than $10 billion, and it is clear that Croatia will not succeed alone. So these projects that are now being implemented within the IPA that are related to environmental protection and those who are waiting for us in cohesion and structural funds will be extremely important and we must prepare well for them to withdraw these large funds. Here I would like to commend the Croatian waters and the Ministry of Regional Development who have helped, or have fully financed, project documentation for our municipalities and cities, and this also works for this second segment of waste management, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. However, there is also a need to make certain preconditions, which means that the counties have to establish locations in their spatial waste management plans, or for the establishment of regional waste management centres, which some have done and have already succeeded in withdrawing funds, unfortunately some have not done until today, will have major problems. I would also like to remind you of the fact that according to UNESCO data, Croatia is in renewable quantities of drinking water per capita among the 30 countries of the richest countries in the world when we talk about water. According to the sum of the amount that falls to the ground and the amount of water coming from other countries. Croatia is estimated to be 1st country in Europe by supply of water and 3rd in the world. In order to do so and to remain so, responsibility is necessary at all levels, significant and greater investments are necessary and I believe that these IPA projects also contribute to improving the situation on the ground. The HSS representative club will certainly support the adoption of both of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74426	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the quote, Mr. Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74427	Since I have no procedural possibility of replicating here, I'm correcting the false assumption that the Adriatic is the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean. It is the Croatian coast of the Adriatic, but the Italian coast is not so great. However, as is the unique eco system, i.e. This programme is one of the options for better cooperation among countries in the region to preserve this delicate balance, and also to prevent the negative impact of the release of various contaminants, especially through intensive and irrational urbanisation on the Adriatic coast, whether east or west. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74428	Thank you. By the character of correction you yourself said ok. We have two more individual applications, so I suggest we do it so we can finish these two laws before the break. First of all, colleague Ivan Škaričić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. On 25 March 2008, the Commission of the European Community adopted an IPA programme of Adriatic cross-border cooperation and, in order to implement this programme, it is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission to conclude a financing agreement defining everything in connection with the management of this assistance. The agreement covers the following countries: Greece, Italy, Slovenia, Albania, BiH, Croatia, Montenegro and Serbia. And the objectives of this programme are: revitalisation of the economy, protection of nature and the environment, and social cohesion of the programme area. It is also aimed at building local and regional and national institutions to manage the EU programme. The acceptable area of the Republic of Croatia covered by this programme consists of 7 regions, 7 of our counties, which are: Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Kninska, Zadar, Ličko-senjska, Primorje-Gorskiska and Istrian County. This programme deals with the following aspects: territory, environmental protection, population, migration flows, economy, labour market, trade, tourism, infrastructure and accessibility, research and innovation, capacity management and building. The programming area covers an area of 115 thousand 714 square km and numbers slightly above 15 million inhabitants. The principles on which the programme is based are as follows: the principle of common benefit to find a solution to common problems, then the principle of partnership to ensure the effectiveness of the programme, then the principle of sustainable development. The programme's partner should focus public and private investment in new technologies that are environmentally acceptable and ensure employment, and sustainable development itself is the key objective of this Treaty. Furthermore, the principle of equal opportunities, without discrimination, respect for personal rights, and special attention is paid to the rights of workers and immigrants. Then the territorial area. The purpose of the programme is to make full use of the raw materials and human potentials of the area possible. Then strengthen the competitiveness of the Adriatic swimming pool in relation to other geoeconomic areas and integration of territorial and cross-border approaches in order to meet common challenges and to achieve common benefits. In line with the implementation of the IPA Regulation, the financial plan for the period 2007 to 2011 is 160 million 490 thousand 332 euros. There is a provision for the establishment of bodies and joint structures responsible for the management of the programme, which are responsible for the management and implementation of the programme, and the certification body responsible for the verification of the costs incurred and the audit authority responsible for the supervisory systems. The established structures of the programme are the Joint Monitoring Committee, the Management Board and the Joint Technical Secretariat. A joint supervisory board is responsible for the selection of projects, and users are assisted and supported in the development of projects. The management of financial resources shall be implemented in accordance with the administrative and accounting rules of the Community. Confirmation of this agreement creates a legal basis for the grant use of financial resources for the 2010 and 2011 programme aid projects, and these funds amount to 76 million 49 000 195 euros. Many of our counties have already taken advantage of these opportunities and I will now set an example here of my Split-Dalmatia County that used this possibility of IPA cross-border cooperation so that a million 390 thousand euros has been withdrawn, and of this, three cities and four municipalities are included in our county, including my town Omis with 163200 euros, and it refers to the arrangement of mountainous thematic trails. The county itself withdrew 262475 euros and the county development agency 329500 euros. As far as education here is concerned, I point out with a mountain development agency that has helped cities and municipalities that have applied for these programmes. So this is a very significant asset for us from this program. A total of 2 million 13 thousand 835 euros, of which 623160 are waste on Italians, and as I have already said on Croatian cities and the County of Split-Dalmatia million 390 thousand 675 euros. I would highlight the importance of this project and future projects that will be financed from the EU's accession funds where this will be very high quality and, as we can see, not hard-to-reach funds if people team up in all counties and cities and take advantage of these opportunities. So I will definitely support this law that was proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74430	Thank you very much. And distinguished colleague Zeljko Turk. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74431	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to try to really sublime this 10, 15, 20 minutes as far as I can 'cause I'm sure we're not all having lunch. Very short, Croatia-Slovenia, proposed co-operation. As mayor of the town of Zapresic, I had the opportunity to participate in these projects and from here 22 projects 2 refer to the area and the town of Zapresic as a component of part of the cooperation whether the cities, institutions on both sides of the borders. Perhaps I would just like to underline here, say two or three sentences related to the fact that on one side of the border cities, municipalities, counties cooperate and in fact this is one natural sequence of cooperation and actually the use of quality experiences and knowledge, and above all the good part and leading partners from the Republic of Slovenia, so I can confirm that for the Municipality of Brežice Krško as well as for some others. I am certainly pleased that in this programme, therefore, the cooperation of Croatia and Slovenia, in fact, is the highest quality and most used funds so far, which means that here is how qualitative, and with knowledge then and by quantity these projects have both the quality and the essential and the real basis that they are done as such. Certainly, it is worth saying here that it is worth knowing for today, and also for tomorrow, when it comes to co-financing of units of local self-government of municipalities and cities that some times and 10, 15% of the funds means a lot, which means that it is necessary to involve both states, counties or some other institutions of the ministry and ends up saying that we must prepare quality for the European Structural Funds that are coming, but which are significantly different in terms of the insurance of the funds, which means that first we have to pay everything ourselves to get back from the Structural Funds, and that imposes a significantly different, new way of planning and thinking. I confirm that I will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74432	Thank you very much, fellow Turk. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. Does the Secretary of State want it? He doesn't think there's any need. Thank him, too. I'll finish the 3rd, 4th and 5th agenda then. We'll vote when conditions are put in place. We believe it will be tomorrow. And we're going on break until 3:00, and at 3:00 we're going on point 7, that's the final draft law on the completion of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74433	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA programme of Adriatic cross-border cooperation" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 816. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law confirming the financing agreement between the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission concerning the "IPA programme of Adriatic cross-border cooperation" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 113 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74450	We'll continue the afternoon session. Here is the point - Final proposal for a law supplementing the Health Activity and Higher Education Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 810. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivana Mrkonjic State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74451	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Government proposes the addition of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in a way to add, in Article 102, the following paragraph 9 of the 10th, which reads: "Extremely from the provision of paragraph 7 of this article to the teacher in the field of biomedicine and health care, the field of clinical medical science which has not been chosen to call a regular professor in permanent calling The Higher School can extend the working relationship until the end of the academic year in which he is 70 years of life, particularly esteeming his scientific contribution and success in the educational process and education of young scientists and teachers. The basis of this supplement is related to the circumstance of lack of medical staff in the Republic of Croatia, so we have assessed the need to enable extension of work to teachers and experts who are not selected to be a regular professor in the field of biomedicine and health, a field of clinical medical science. The proposed supplement implements one of the recommendations of the European Community related to the lack of a doctor, and also ensures the continuity of the representation of the Republic of Croatia in prominent international health institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74452	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear Peter Selem, Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 43rd session of 25 May of this year the draft law supplementing the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education with the final proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 810. The committee discussed the issue as a parent working body. The opening argument was tabled by a proposaling representative who pointed out that the adoption of the law would help remove the problem of the increasingly present in Croatian health care, which concerns the lack of medical staff in the Republic of Croatia. In this connection, it was pointed out that the adoption of this law would allow for the extension of the working relationship between teachers and experts at medical schools who were not chosen to call a regular professor in permanent calling to continue to participate in maintaining the quality of the educational process in the Republic of Croatia. In the debate, members supported the adoption of the law, but they believe that problems are mentioned, not only in the medical profession, that these problems should be solved and resolved in the long term through quality cooperation with relevant institutions. The primary cooperation between the university and higher education institutions and the ministry at the appropriate level. With this in mind, the proposal is for committee members to be able to address these problems through models such as increasing enrolment quotas at university college institutions through scholarships and so on. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by a majority of votes 6 for and 1 abstention, to adopt the Law on the Completion of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. The Committee also proposed an amendment that actually sought perhaps in a permanent way to specify the space where this extension could take place, and the amendment would therefore read that behind the words "who did not choose to call a regular professor into permanent calling" added the words "but chose to call a regular professor or an extraordinary professor". On that amendment, I say it was so much whether it should be entered or not, but we have proposed it here as one option to supplement this Act on Scientific Activity, the addition of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74454	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74455	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask you to carefully read these two articles and not to underestimate the consequences that might arise with the addition of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Even on the Education Committee, I must tell you some colleagues have not understood the importance of these changes at all. And I don't know if a small number of people in the assembly today mean a boycott of this proposal or a lack of understanding of its consequences. My colleagues and colleagues, I will read you an explanation for why we are entering changes, or additions to this Act. Regarding the environment of lack of medical staff in the Republic of Croatia, whether I should repeat this, regarding the environment of lack of medical staff in the Republic of Croatia, it is assessed that it is necessary to enable extension of work and teachers, excellent professionals who are not selected to call a regular professor in permanent calling and from the field of biomedicine and health care field of clinical medical science. So, by the way, we're missing a doctor, but by the way, we're gonna let them stay at the university to work and teachers who aren't chosen to call a regular professor in a permanent calling. Now if you looked closely at this area of biomedicine and health care and the field of clinical medical science we here have two kinds of exceptions. First inside the doctor's profession. So, which teachers will be able to keep working and which ones won't? If he can, there's no colleague here right now who's working on anatomy or histology colleagues, so in front of the clinic, no, they can't. Only the teachers of clinical science. Now, that's one thing. Secondly, we make a huge difference between fellow medical professions of clinical science and all other sciences. We lack physicists, we lack engineers and many other professions. What we lack at the HNS-HSU club is one quality, detailed analysis of the situation. How much do we miss a doctor, what specialists do we miss, and what do we do to change that situation? What should the state do when there is no specific frame? It increases the enrolment quotas, stimulates enrolment in this university through scholarships, through certain relief students to get a easier home, so accommodation, diet, etc. These are the usual measures that each country takes to direct the registration policy and the interest of young people towards those deficiting activities that are necessary. I don't know anything about that. We didn't see anything in this explanation. Is that the only profile we're missing? Are we going to have a bill like this on the table tomorrow regarding other professions? I don't know, I think this is a dangerous proposal in relation to the possible consequences and the avalanche we could cause. So that's one thing. If we're missing a doctor, then why are we chasing pots? Why don't we just let them really work in health care for a couple of years longer? Why do we associate it with the university and allow those who, in my opinion, should have taken care of the scientific rejuvenation, that when they turned 65 they had a worthy replacement, that they had left a professor, a professor who would sit in their seat as head of the cathedral. In fact, it's already been going on in the medical profession for many years to reward practically the ones that have made it the least. In the '80s and later on, this tradition continues to reward whom? By then, they could have been working for 65 years, who? Those teachers who didn't secure their replacement. So they were rewarded for it. And pay attention to the reasoning we give, so they will be able to work until the 70th year of their lives especially to appreciate his scientific contribution, and he has failed to reach a regular profession in a permanent calling, and we appreciate the scientific contribution, and the success in the educational process in raising young scientific heirs. And he didn't leave anyone behind. Therefore, we reward less successful work and it is not good. I'm not against allowing a doctor to continue working in that healthcare section, if we miss it, if it's a fire measure. But let's not confuse that, then we automatically allow the university to continue with such a "successful" expert. If he's successful he'll pull out of that section at 65, pleased he left young, capable people at the cathedral to inherit him. So please, colleagues and colleagues, please read this proposal carefully. Let's work out what to do. Look, here we have two groups of measures. One thing we need to do is make sure there are enough doctors in Croatia tomorrow. We need to increase registration quotas, give scholarships to people who want to study deficits, we need to enable them easier accommodation, home advantage, etc. So a series of measures we can take and we need to take. We don't propose them here. And on the other hand, when it comes to teachers, I think we should make that clear, or some coordination between the minister, the rector and the dean that they have to take care of a few years before the teacher turns 65 to warn him, you're 60 years old, in 5 years you're retired. You haven't left anyone behind for now. What's your plan? The dean would have to call these presidents of the cathedral, warn them and take care of the clear reproduction of the frame. I think that's important. It should also be done by the rector, and at the head, at the top of the pyramid is a minister who must be part of the obligation to think it would not have happened. So, please try to separate the profession here from the scientific teaching work and try to separate the responsible in one of the responsible in another system. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74456	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74457	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will give one other emphasis on the amendments to this law because this law does not really refer to strengthening scientific work in the field of biomedicine and health rather than just that, I would say the collateral sacrifice of a difficult condition in medicine, which is reflected in the number of doctors to the number of residents. So this law has a task, although it goes through the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, actually works for the health system. What's this about? The number of doctors in Croatia dropped drastically during the 1990s to '95s during the Homeland War. We have these consequences today. We've increased student quotas, we've enrolled more students, but we don't have enough teachers. So it's not teachers who didn't ensure the continuity of teaching, but we don't have enough to increase the number of students. I'm in this category, I'm leaving behind three university professors, one professor and two science doctors. Just enough for the current number of students. But next year, I'm coming up with this student generation that's been increased by the enrollment rate, and this number doesn't satisfy it. We have such situations in all medical schools, so please let us extend these people who want to work for a few years so they can educate this increased number of students who have been coming to us since this year. And how dramatic the situation is I will show you in the number of doctors per 100,000 inhabitants in Europe, and of course in Croatia in the dynamics of events. The European Union has an average of 331 people per 100,000. Half the states have up to 600, half the states have fewer. Croatia is very low-ranking with 260 doctors, only 7 countries are behind us, and Albania is behind us from 116 to 100,000 inhabitants, Turkey, Herzegovina and 4 other countries. So we are definitely at the European bottom, which has a profound impact on the quality of healthcare. By increasing the quota in medical schools, the quotas of enrolled students we will fix it in a few years to come, but that is why we need additional teachers. Why is the situation so dramatic, so I'll tell you that in 90 years Croatia had 212 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, I repeat today there are 260 countries after the 90th very fast dynamics increased the number of doctors to 100,000 inhabitants and in Croatia there was a decline trend. So we came from 212 thousand 90s to 194 thousand 91s to 204 thousand 95s. When we were supposed to have over 260 we only had 205. This wartime backlog is pulling its tail today, and only by increasing the registration quota will we be able to satisfy it. What will happen when we join the European Union with the possibility of going to our doctors I will not talk about this at this time, but there is also a plan to further increase the registration quotas and with time to further increase the teacher's staff, but in this season we do not have a teacher's staff yet. Is this law fully addressing the problem of temporary increases in teaching staff? No, I don't. Why not? Because with this law, there should be some other laws that need to be amended. Namely, we who participate in the course of medical school have so-called an integrated teaching that is professional, health and teaching. In other words, a teacher at the medical school teaches at the hospital why? Because teaching is possible with a patient and the patient is in the hospital and these are contractual teaching bases. According to this bill, a teacher can keep his place in a higher education facility at the Medical Faculty but can't extend his work experience at the hospital. So we're going to get teachers who don't have a patient, and that's a big danger, so teaching doesn't turn into a theoretical teaching, which is absolutely unimaginable in medicine because 80% of our teaching is applied knowledge to a patient, so exercises or seminars, just 15 to 20% are lectures from the cathedral. So, with the request that you accept this amendment for the reasons I have said, I encourage other laws of healthcare to adapt to this Act so that those 10 or 15 teachers who need to educate several hundred students can work more with their patient because without a patient there is no teaching medicine. So this is the only part we've solved, so to speak. The cumulative working relationship, the working relationship of teachers with the university, but we haven't solved their working relationship with the health care institution, and we'll get teachers without patients. This is not good, because the quality of the medical study at the Croatian Medical Schools carries exactly this practical applied course and therefore our graduate doctor can work in any health institution, organization of America and Europe because by quality we continue to meet their standards and therefore our graduate doctors are not only able to work but are wanted in all developed countries, all continents. This way, if we leave only partial theoretical teaching, I'm afraid we'll lose quality and that tradition of the Croatian Medical School will in some way ruin it. So, on behalf of the Club, with all due respect to all the remarks that have been made, please focus on the number of doctors on the number of residents and this is the need for such a law. That there are some injustices to other professions, but the number of doctors means the number of cured persons, means the extension of life expectancy, means survival because of the availability of health care, and that is why on behalf of the HDZ Club we are not only supporting but we are appealing to you to support the amendments to this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74458	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74459	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hebrang said you needed these experts to educate a number of doctors at colleges, and we need them at all colleges. That's incorrect. If that were the case, we would distinguish doctors from clinicians, from clinical sciences from preclinical sciences. These colleagues in physiology, pathophysiology, histology, in anatomy will not have the same status as colleagues in clinical cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74460	Thank you. Let's move forward with the debate, on behalf of the SDP Club, the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74461	Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. The SDP Club will support this law particularly pleased, many speakers before me have spoken who are in some way reluctant and in this very text of the law regarding these professions but also broader regarding the general state of affairs but I am afraid that we have been brought into a situation that, especially because of this pragmatism, we need to support the Law because we actually have a very specific problem that we need to solve. However, in the SDP, we agree with all those who think so far, that the debate on this law opens up for us, so to speak of many other problems that I fear we should already discuss, or it is high time that we start to discuss. The law opens at least two questions. Question number one is the lack of individual profiles or waist. We have now seen a lack of doctors here, but we in Croatia have a shortage of many other waists. I will remind you colleagues and colleagues that in primary and secondary schools we have a lack of teachers and teachers of foreign languages, mathematics, physics. What was most of the answer to that fact? Two years ago, when we changed the Law on Education and Education in elementary and high school, you legalized unprofessional teaching. Now the waiters are handing over physics to us, and that's what most of this House has legalized. So that's not a good answer. And it seems to me that Madam Secretary of State, you all need to consider together in the ministry what the answer is whether through the enrollment quotas whether through these or those encouraging measures we are in some way producing profiles of people who matter to us especially in this part of the public service for which in some way the state, health care, education, social security, etc. is responsible. We will soon enter the EU, we will open our market and if we do not produce our personnel, we will be operated by foreigners. So I'm saying we should have talked about it yesterday, and we should actually talk about it and find a solution as soon as possible. Another problem that opens this debate and this law is the issue of lack of teachers at high schools. Here it is concrete in only one part of the profession, and I agree with my colleague Doric that it is extremely unfair for these others who are educated, medics or doctors, a lack of teachers who have happened for several reasons. One reason is, indeed, that has already been said by many college teachers simply do not care about leaving behind heirs, leaving people who will be able to take over cathedrals and hold teachers. That is indeed the problem, we cannot order universities in any way, but I think as a state and as a Parliament that finances all these public universities there are certain, I will dare say maybe a little and rough, and methods and ways to send them and perhaps not even subtly send a message that is actually their business and then their responsibility. And secondly, by introducing the Bologna process into Croatian higher education, we did not, but we should have changed the way the teaching takes place. We have simply fewer student groups, the need for more teachers, even in the same number of students, and we have seen that we need to increase the number of students. Simply solving the problem of lack of teacher's staff at the university, high schools are also something that deserves analysis. It is clear to me that one profession or part of the profession has fought for itself, but in the SDP, we would also like to see what is with other professions, especially some technical professions where there is indeed little interest in people, and we are very much in the development of the economy. This is about the simple thing, so far, according to the existing provisions of the law, teachers who were elected to the permanent calling of a regular professor were allowed to teach if they were 65 years old, we are now actually making an exception in these professions that they can teach and if they are not in the permanent calling of a regular professor. That's where we agree with the amendment committee not to let me tell the doctors and some who haven't been able to finish their regular progress for so many years. But we're repeating, we're going to pass this law, and we're almost reluctant because we're just afraid we don't have a choice. But these two problems that this law opens and the debate on this law opens up is something if we don't start dealing with it today, I think we're going to have a lot of bigger problems right now. Here I'm honestly afraid that in five years' time, let's not get the law let's let those who work until 70 now work until 75th, or that number of professions that these exceptions, so to speak, let's just increase and increase, we're increasing already depending on the strength of a particular profession. In the end, there's only one thing I want to say on behalf of the SDP club. A few years ago, a new recruit's system began to restore or attempt to restore a part of the teaching staff through some perhaps a wrong way. Money is simply people who are employed on individual scientific research projects, but because of this need for a teacher whose principally money is that they should not and teach students, many of them were the only ones who saw their teachers who were nominally collegiate. In the last ten years, the state has invested a lot of public money to educate these young people, these recruits. They finished their master's degree, my doctorate, and I just want to say that most of them were out of work last summer. Their contracts aren't extended, their projects are over, it's in that part of the office. However, given that the state has trained them to doctorate if anything else formal, then some minimal experience at the university, that it may have been necessary to see or find an efficient system so as to leave them at higher education institutions and, in some ways, from then on, even though this is not quite the right way, to restore teaching staff. This is how many young people were educated, paid half their tuition, and then now we have them on the labour market or in some profitable activity, which doesn't seem like an effective spending of public money, mine, yours, of all our fellow citizens. Therefore, we will not give as a formal conclusion, but we would love to if we all agreed here together if you from the ministry really took seriously that we are making analysts that are the professions that are missing, because it is not just a doctor's issue, I know this part of the education that is missing, which are teachers and in what professions we lack from higher education teachers and which is actually a general policy of restoring scientific teaching staff in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74462	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Zdenko Franic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74463	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, your honor, the Secretary of State. I have joined the opinion so far that this law is extremely unfair to many professions and many of the orientations within the medical profession itself. It's a palitative solution, although I will personally be very reluctant to support it. This is not a good way to solve the problem, especially since we can not be a bad prophet, but when Croatia enters full EU membership, the experience of countries that have become members speaks of a rather exodus of some professions in more developed Western countries. How in Croatia will we deal with these problems, if we do not now move systematic solutions that must already be answered today to many of the questions that await us. Here, too, only teachers in the field of biomedicine and health care are preferred here, the field of clinical medical science, and today doctors educate a very large number of other professions, teachers, teachers, then people who work on scientific institutes that are unfortunately not integrated into university education. A month ago in the Republic of Croatia was an international commission that evaluated the work of scientific institutes dealing with medicine and biomedicine. It is an extremely prestigious team that comes from international institutions such as John Hopkins University, Weizzmann Institute, Mayo clinic, etc. And they made quite a detailed insight into the state of medical and biomedical sciences in the Republic of Croatia although they did not have the most kind reception in all Croatian institutes, which is essentially our internal shame. However, there were some knowledge and knowledge and were essentially amazed by the ineffectiveness of the integration of scientific work at institutes with teaching activities at Croatian universities. Also, their great dubiosis, surprise and final recommendation was to strengthen co-operation between the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Health in order to integrate postgraduate education as much as possible, i.e. doctorate in the field of medicine with specialist education. And their recommendation was that these two processes go as coherently as possible, so they are separated at a time when it really is necessary, not that young people go parallelly in two directions, and that it lasts for years and years and ultimately suffers both the profession and the family life, and ultimately the scientific contribution. In this regard, Madam Secretary of State, I suggest that when and physically obtain the recommendations of this international group of reviewers which you have paid from the budget through the Ministry of Science budget, you also really respect them in agreement with the Ministry of Health and find satisfactory solutions that will improve the system and education in the field of medicine. It should also work on the position of other health professions, which are becoming increasingly multidisciplinary, i.e. not becoming but rather a multidisciplinary area, so it is not possible to determine the exact limit between chemistry, physics, biology and medicine itself, but unfortunately these other profiles that are not trained at the medical school do not have the status of a health care professional, do not have the same benefits as on pay. But treatment, the action of the medical profession, for example, is unimaginable without good laboratory work, without medical chemistry and biochemistry where biochemists work, but as I said unfortunately their status is not even with the medical profession as such and there is much to be done. Another example is medical physics, especially the science of radiation that is extremely necessary in medicine, because I doubt anyone would agree to be dosed by someone other than a specialist in this area and physicist, but here we have an acute problem with physicists. Less and less people are enrolling in this difficult, demanding, and unattractive college, which, unfortunately, does not guarantee employment. Therefore, by discussing this law, by adopting a palitative solution, we open up many issues that require answers and solutions in the near future, otherwise we will find ourselves in very big problems, much greater than we are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74464	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74465	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 810, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to manifest himself. Ms Ivana Mrkonjic, State Secretary. Please, Amendment 1 to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74466	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia cannot accept the amendment of the Committee. Namely, due to the lack of doctors in Croatia, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has increased registration quotas for the study of medicine. Here it should be taken into account that the profession of doctor medicine is among the regulated professions at European Union level, which means that it has a very strictly prescribed and program...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74467	A little clearer and stronger.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74468	Therefore, the profession of doctor medicine is one of the regulated professions at European Union level, which means that it has a very strictly prescribed programme and captainship and that the programme could be successfully maintained is to provide a sufficient number of teachers. That is exactly what the objective of our amendment was, and we believe it is evident from the same that the extension of the working relationship to 70 years can only happen in exceptional cases and only because of the need for teaching. The government therefore considers that they do not need any further restrictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74469	Thank you. The chairman of the board, Mr. Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74470	This amendment, proposed by us, was agreed with the representatives of the ministry at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. However, I must respect Mrs. Secretary of State's arguments, especially her accent that this is about exceptional cases due to the need for teaching. So I don't think this amendment of ours has changed much, except for setting a certain limit. But okay, if the need to continue is such that sometimes you have to go beyond that limit, then I regretfully withdraw the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74471	This amendment has been withdrawn. What? No one can talk about the amendment, who else can. The amendment has been withdrawn Please, I'm giving... [[Intruder Selem: Pulled, yes.]] What? .../Speakers speak in the same voice, noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's an amendment to the board, yes. But the board president has given up the amendment, which we're going to do now, we're not having a board session. .../Speakers speak in the same voice, noise in the hall./... Oh, this is unusual, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74472	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would just like to say as a member of the Committee on Education, it is an amendment that we have stated by consensus, as the chairman of the Committee, on the Committee on Education, with the agreement of the Ministry. I don't think the board president, with all due respect to the president of our committee, can withdraw the amendment on behalf of the board if we haven't agreed on it, in some way as a committee for that. Of course, most people will make whatever decision they want, but I think it would be right and necessary to vote on the amendment itself. Here's a thank you. If nothing else, we from the opposition that supported that amendment disagreed with the withdrawal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74473	You know what, we can vote, but so far it's been common for the board president to accept or not accept or withdraw. However, if this insists, then one day someone might say I am going, let's put together a committee to withdraw or not withdraw the amendment. That would complicate our procedure. So let's not make precedents, although I will put this amendment on. You don't have to pull it, and I'll put it to the vote. Who's for this amendment, which the government doesn't normally accept, raise your hand. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you. I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 101 votes for, 7 abstentions and 4 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74474	We move on to - Final proposal of the Council Register Act, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities, second reading, P.Z. No. 627 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Davor Ljubanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The protection of national minorities, and the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities are governed by the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, special laws and bilateral international agreements relating to minority rights. On the basis of the Constitutional Law, with the aim of improving and protecting the position of minorities in society, members of national minorities choose their representatives to participate in public life and to manage local affairs through the Council and representatives of national minorities. The procedure and manner of registration of organisational forms of national minorities in units of local and regional regional self-government was not prescribed by law, but the sublaw laid down the content of the register, management and forms of enrolment applications in the register of the Council of National Minorities. However, in view of the uniqueness and integrity of the recording of all the intended organisational forms of action of national minorities, the conditions and methods of their registration should be laid down by law. The final draft law refers to the following, in the manner of enrolment in the register of the Council of National Minorities, representatives of national minorities and the coordination of the Council of National Minorities, to the change of registration data, the conditions for erasure from the register, and the way in which the coordination of the Council of National Minorities established for the territory of the Republic of Croatia is financed. The main amendments to the proposal for a law are discussed in the first reading that according to the proposals of the Legislative Committee, the text of this bill has been no-technically completed and the way in which the National Minorities Council is working and financing has been co-ordinated for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes the adoption of this Act to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74476	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First of all there are clubs and this SDP club is a respected representative of Shime Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74477	Thank you very much. I'll try to be brief and clear. In addition to disagreeing with this approach and the concept of solving this problem, which should be dealt with by this law, I think that the first twenty articles of this Law to repeat myself from the first presentation on behalf of the SDP club actually stand less. I would also like to thank that two remarks seem to me from a few, as far as I've seen the SDP club accepted. However, I would like a few sentences on why I think that this is a way of accessing the Council registry and, in general, to the councils and representatives of national minorities is not good. You see, we're passing the Register Act, and in fact, I think we should pass the Law on Councils and representatives of national minorities. Because at the end of the day you're doing a register of something, you're determining the work of coordination that at the same time you don't have a regulated work of these councils and representatives. And then you have a situation to get this kind of law that's best said in one good part of college with the Constitutional Law. Would you like to talk about the number and variations of coordinations known to the Constitutional Law and the number and variants and the development of these same types of coordination in this law? He can't do both. Would you like to discuss the position of the representative as the Constitutional Law has been resolved and how this law has been resolved? It seems to me that all the efforts of the motionors of this Law have fallen into the water and these efforts have been directed to eventually correct some of the bad things and illogicalities of the Constitutional Law. Because in this situation, I think it's clearer what's more and what's lower. So actually, I don't know about this law, maybe it's a good time, because you probably all know that elections are under way for the councils and representatives of national minorities, or a few more days of proposing candidates, and then we're going to have a 10.7 election. In fact, that 10.7 tells me about how to approach this problem. I mean 10.7. I don't think 4% of national minority representatives will make the election. Second of all, the deadlines are kind of jumbled. I think they've been running for a few days. Here's to the ninth. I don't know how it's gonna work out together. Now you see where the culmination of the situation is. Let's say that when you take the government's decision to call the elections, then you'll be in a position to, say, take the Osijek-Baranja County and see that in Osijek-Baranja County we will have elections for, say, the councils of the same national minority, but also for representatives of the same national minority. Let's say in Bilje and let's say more in the Vladislavs. I don't know if it's a mistake? But you have an even better example. You have the municipality, pardon the County of Viritarian-Podravska. There, even in four municipalities, you have elections for both councils and representatives. Now, you see, if anyone complains, this law falls on you, that is, this decision. If the decision falls, you've broken all deadlines. This is just, by the way, said to be superficially, unambitiously, I don't know how to approach this problem. Therefore, that is why the SDP club will not support this law. I don't know, I'd like the motionary to explain Article 25 to me. Here it is, funding is always an interesting story. Therefore, the Constitutional Law stipulates that the councils, i.e. the councils and the coordination and all these forms of organisation, are financed at the level where they are formed. Now you have an article 25 that introduces something called the transfer of power. Now, first of all, I'm interested in the powers that are immaterial, because in that case, it would mean that the one who first adopted power to put himself out. Why is that? Just so you could actually transfer the funds. That's how I interpret it. In fact, I don't understand why it doesn't go condescendingly as it says and how the Constitutional Law says it. At least that's how I see it. So I suggest I think it's already high time to start thinking, to think about sitting down and systematically agreeing to the story. We must therefore get clearer, better law, constitutional law on national minorities. We definitely need to get the Law on Councils and National Minor Representatives where actually the register will be just one small part of the law, and where a number of other issues will be defined. You're saying that the election is settled by the logic of the local elections. But I don't know, here's one question I couldn't possibly figure out. What does it mean when 30 or 40% of council members resign? What does that mean? I mean, what's the logic, what's the logic of the local self-government unit? So, there's been a series of questions open, and I'm done, and I'm not talking about this decision. Please look or tell the Government there this decision because it is unconstitutional, illegal only if it is not a mistake, I don't know, this election. So consider going into a whole, better quality production of the normative part of the whole matter that treats minority issues in Croatia. First of all, I think we need the Council Act, which will also define the Board Register and actually function and act in coordination. So unfortunately, the SDP club will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74478	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at the very beginning, I'm going to say that the HDZ Representatives' Club supports this bill. In fact, the bill itself is based on Article 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 Constitutional law, as has been stated in the opening statement, and I think that in this place we should briefly repeat or emphasise what these articles are actually about, as a basis for the adoption of this law, what they regulate. So in the first place, Article 15. A constitution guaranteeing members of all national minorities and equality and freedom of expression of nationality and freedom of service by language and letter and cultural autonomy. It should not be recalled that the Constitutional Law has been adopted, that is to say, that we have recently adopted it, entered into force on 7 July 2010 and that, in this context, it establishes that with the aim of improving, preserving and protecting the position of minorities in society, members of national minorities choose their representatives to participate in public life and to manage local affairs through the councils and representatives of national minorities. We therefore have before us a law that is based, that is, on these very rules, that is, the Constitution and the Constitutional Law, and this law primarily regulates those things that have so far been governed by sublaws in terms of one obligation to and indeed the important and important things are governed by the law itself. And what things does this law regulate? We can systematize them into four basics. So the first way to get into the register itself, then change the data when it comes to the entry itself, that's under 2. Under the third conditions for eradicating from the register and under the 4th mode of operation and functioning of the coordination of the Council of National Minorities established for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So, and the way it works and works. So, in terms of supporting this constitutional proposal, relating to the Constitutional Law and regarding this law, which is before us, this law closes one whole, solves all issues or a large part of the issues that have so far been or has not been resolved, or has been in doubt or been resolved by sublegal acts, and this time seeks to specify all these things that I have already spoken of. In line with all the above, the HDZ Representatives Club supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74480	Thank you. It is next to the HNS-HSU club, the esteemed representative of Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74481	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, proposing representatives. We have a very important bill ahead of us. He is trying to address one issue that has not been regulated so far, which is a question of legal personality, the issue of the functioning of representatives, the Council and the coordination of national minorities. The logic of the matter is that this law fully respects, on the one hand, the Constitution of guaranteed levels of rights and freedom, on the other hand those questions and solutions defined by the Constitutional Law, and, on the third hand, that it also recognises reality and that the Proposer is fully aware of his political responsibility when he sets a model that must be sustainable and just if the real intention of both the promoters and this law is to enable full respect for the rights of national minorities. But not only that, but to enable them to consume those rights. From the report of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, it is quite clear that at the committee's meeting this issue, there was a very sharp, very heated, and that things were a very fruitful debate. It followed between the rest and a series of amendments. What is not well solved in this bill is a relationship to the so-called "Several Minorities". It is with its own handicap that, for this reason or for that reason, they remain or become few that are now even more difficult to deal with because they will be even more in the future. Their functioning, but also the legitimacy in representing their own minority, is at stake. The principle of how the coordination of the national minority is created is already at stake. I'm going to take an example of my own, although speaking on behalf of the HNS-HSU club, I don't represent my national minority here, but it's worth taking concrete examples. Germany's national minority has 1 County Council. It's a council in Osijek-Baranja County. It also has its own councils in the town of Osijek, has representatives in the town of Bela Manastir, has in the municipality of Knezeva Vinogradi, also has in Split-Dalmatia County and will have in Istria, Primorje-Goranska and Zadar-Lika, that is, Zadar County. We know that the existing model that we are offered tells us that coordination is not available if two councils cannot be joined at the county level. And that representatives can get into coordination after it is established. So the Germans and Austrians in the Republic of Croatia will not be able to have their coordination. Autochton are a minority, which numbers more than 3,000 declared members, a minority that has left one of the deepest and I would dare say from the most significant clues in shaping our present. It is even worse with the Jewish national minority in the Republic of Croatia who has only one representative in the city of Zagreb, so the question is who will tomorrow and in what way prove the legitimate representation of the minority in the Republic of Croatia, will we continue to satisfy the situation that the two rival religious municipalities in Zagreb are actually taking up the space and define the space of representation of the Jewish national minority through their conflict, is that fair? I only mentioned two. This is why minorities who have both councils and representatives are actually crossed over to form coordination, and why this proposal ignores the institution of national minority representatives to that extent to derogate the right laid down by the Constitutional Law. Because Article 33. The constitutional law of the explicit says what rights the council has, and Article 34 says the same rights are represented by representatives. Here we now see in this proposal that they do not have because representatives have no legal personality, no legal personality. Why are we creating this chaos? National minority representatives also have money from the budget of units of local, regional or regional self-government. What has been done so far has been beyond reason that private bank accounts have had to be opened in order to be able to dispose of these funds. Why are we doing this? Isn't it easy to establish an institute of national minority representatives as a legal person? And an authorised representative is a signer and a possession of a person who is on the job of a representative at that time. Therefore, the representative may be an institution with its own OIB, its own home number, and the person who is signator of that account, the person who corresponds on behalf of the representative is the person who was elected at that time in office as already regulated by the law and as mentioned here. Because it's defined among other things and the question of enrollment in the register. It's very simple to perform. In that sense, the HNSU Club has released the amendments in the procedure. I apologize first to the Vice President of the Parliament, and then to all of you. So we have something that needs to be solved so that we don't bring into an unfavourable position members of national minorities who are not territorial, demographically concentrated just one area. Because according to the logic of how things are now as regulation regulates the issue, the national minority is concentrated, theoretically speaking in two counties, and there are 1,000 representatives or 1002 representatives can have without a problem two county councils and national coordination and the national minority who has 4 thousand members living in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia are not territorially concentrated on more than 500 people in one settlement, there is no possibility of national coordination, there is no possibility of more county councils. Is that fair? What we have achieved in the future is that the few minorities in the future are even more few, because they are being given mechanisms to those minorities that are territorially compact. These mechanisms are actually mechanisms for the exercise of rights, if you want cultural and educational autonomy, cultural and educational identity, the achievement of national minorities, and that is also the medium through which they are confirmed, attracted and maintained by members of national minorities in their own identity. If there is no such thing, then we agreed that in all these municipalities, cities and counties where relatively low concentration is they would cease to function and their national identity would be compromised. And what we've brought in with this solution, let's say, specifically, Article 3. We have also brought into an uninvited position of a national minority organisation that is stationary, which is extremely well-developed, extremely active, very valuable, at the price of both minority members here and at institutions in so-called. National countries of origin, and especially before the institutions of the Croatian state and minority, these associations do not have the right to register, but the Italian Union does, because it is mentioned in the International Treaty. What's the criterion? This criterion does not hold water, if we talk about the register of representatives, councils and coordination, because the Italian Union is an association like all associations of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. And other councils, representatives, coordinations are chosen in hierarchy, structure, according to a model defined by the Constitutional Law. Once again I will say there is nothing to fear from the majority of the Croatian ethnic people, it is on its own and no one will ever be able to take away what it has acquired. And it's a national state, it's the space of its ethnic, national, cultural suicide. This will no longer happen and therefore all those who are not part of the ethnic Croatian people but are part of the Croatian political people, as its citizens, as members and members of society and as ethnic members of national minorities, should be given all forms, forms, all content and all media achievements so that they can contribute as much to their homeland as possible. In order to make as much a contribution as possible to their homeland as possible, so that they can demonstrate themselves more in their belongings, love, and the realization of the interests of the entire community, because by nature, every member of the national minority is working much more than most of the members, regardless of which kind of majority or minority were involved, to equalise themselves in rights, in status, in starting positions with a majority member. And when you invest more of course you get more results, achievements. If we don't recognize it, that possibility, that kind of capital that we have, that kind of capital that can be opened can be achieved primarily for the benefit of the community you're saving, then it means we're still in one cramp that we don't know how to get out of and relax as it should be for building a community where every citizen of the Republic will feel free enough to be able to achieve all its specialities. The law ahead of us that defines the issue of registers, representatives, councils and coordination is one model and a chance to help. But the way it's proposed can be both a chance and a model how to prevent it or at least limit it, and that's not good, there's no need for that. There's no need for that kind of fear. Representatives of national minorities in the middle, therefore, where the concentration of members of national minorities is such that they cannot organise their councils are also at the helm of national minority communities numbering dozens or hundreds of people. And that's what we need to respect. They do a great and important job in affirming their national minority and of course building harmonic relations with members of the so-called so-called ". ethnic majority. Let them benefit from the rights guaranteed to them by Article 34. Constitutional law, let's not derogate those rights. In that sense, I ask you to accept the amendment of the HNS and HSU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74482	Thank you. It's the SDSS Club's turn, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74483	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the ministry. The final draft law on the register of councils, co-ordination of councils and representatives of national minorities is now in the second reading. In our first reading, we made it very clear that for us representatives of national minorities it is a very important text and we believe that this text would regulate and formalise, above all, the legal position of national minority representative institutions in the Republic of Croatia. After the debate was held, it was therefore concluded that in the second reading of the text we should do this in the direction of defining the status of these minority coordinations through the provisions in some way and under number 2 to edit ways, frameworks for how to finance these minority institutions. These were the main two objections, or two main premises for this second reading. In the second reading, we will try to finally edit or improve the text so that it is in some way applicable, in practice flowable to some formalities etc. I will say here the law is passed at the right moment, because in a month and a half we have elections for the council of national minorities. The government of the Republic of Croatia has called them. After the elections have been completed, what will not be clear to most, and this is the constitution of these coordinations and councils as roof organisations as a result of these elections for the councils of national minorities in the local environments. For what I think is important here to say for these proposals in terms of improving first reading, we have a consensus of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities. So we have discussed this very seriously and have prepared a few of us very important remarks, i.e. new technical proposals and technical solutions, in order to finally improve this text in a way that suits representatives of national minorities most. What's the size of the problem? I will just point out that at the moment before the elections for the councils of national minorities, we in the Serb community have councils in 66 cities, 83 municipal councils, 19 county councils plus the City of Zagreb, so all around 211 councils and 42 other representatives of national minorities. Therefore, it is a very large, wide-ranging body and this electoral process, which is now the elections for the councils of national minorities, are one very serious business. Are we well-prepared? We minorities are, however, whether the state has provided enough funding, whether or not it has provided funds to conduct these elections is the topic to be discussed. Of course it would be possible to discuss the media in which they follow, how they will follow elections for the councils of national minorities, it remains only to be seen. And right now it's not a topic, but let's note that it's something to take care of if we want these elections for such wide institutions to be conducted in a quality way. I will now, on behalf of the SDSS Club, highlight a few concrete proposals that we believe should be introduced as improvements in this text. We'll hand them over in the form of amendments anyway, so I'll just comment on them. Therefore, in Article 3(3), the following sentence is added: "other forms of national minorities established in accordance with international agreements" should be added with the text and Article 33(7). Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, the National Journal, No 155/2 etc. Why do I say that? Since Article 33 provides that international contracts may also provide for the coordination of national minorities to be carried out by a roof organisation and minority. Therefore, in order to improve the legal outcome of this Article 3 we propose that paragraph 7 be complemented by this solution. In Article 4(1), the new paragraph would be added to me, which would read that the Council of National Minorities, the unit of self-government entered in the existing National Minority Council Register, may be entered in the register on the basis of a re-registration request in the delivery of documents which the current National Minority Board Register does not have. It's a purely technical operational issue, simply so that new re-registration can use existing documents that already exist at the Ministry of Administration. I don't think this should be a questionable thing because this is going towards some kind of economicity and rationalization of the whole process. Article 5(2) is amended as follows: the entities referred to in Article 3 of this Act shall obtain legal personality on the day of entry into the register. So, with this proposal, we include all entities who are allowed to register, and are defined and counted in Article 3 that they, by the very fact of enrolment, also acquire legal personality. In any case, we think that even a previous colleague who spoke that representatives of national minorities in units of local and regional (regional) self-government have the right to acquire legal personality on the day of enrolment because they are no longer natural persons but are elected representatives and have the right to have legal personality. Therefore, we insist on this one comprehensive solution when we say that all the entities referred to in Article 3 on the day of enrolment acquire legal personality. In Article 11(2), the following new paragraph would be added: a request for the re-registering of national minority councils from the existing register must be submitted within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. This is also an operational operation, so for the operation of this Article 11, and we don't think it should be controversial because it's a more technical, quality, better solution. Article 24(1) is amended as follows: the funds for the work of coordination of the councils of national minorities established for the territory of the Republic of Croatia are provided in the national budget and the funding method will be regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So here we propose two things. First, to finance these roof organizations or associations to get rid of the state budget which we think is completely logical, we think it is good for the roof organisations themselves, for their safety in work. In addition, we provide the Government with the possibility that, in accordance with its specific regulation, the budgetary situation will determine the rules and way of financing, so the level of funding by certain organisations or coordination, the dynamics of funding, etc. Finally, the last proposal, in Article 24(2), would add a new item which would read: the means of entry and the means of carrying out administrative work if these tasks are not carried out by the regional self-government unit, where the headquarters is co-ordination and costs of business, rent, maintenance of work space, fees, office expenses, official travel and other material costs. So this amendment, or our proposal, defines the resources necessary for the work of these coordinations. It is clear that without the means defined, we cannot get the quality work of roof organizations. And if this would not be acceptable then we would not have achieved the effect in the work of coordination required, because maintaining even this cold drive is one of the essential assumptions for the functioning or to achieve the full effect of this all that we want to achieve, and in addition to that, it would avoid that sensitive feeling in minorities that their problem or their position would often be formalised. So that would be what we think is an improvement in the first reading, or text from the first reading. We think that if these proposals were presented in the form of amendments, if they were accepted in substance, they would improve the quality of these legal provisions but thus improve the chance of national minorities to achieve their representative functions and their institutions more significantly, so to speak both in the future and in those events and events that are coming, which is joining the European Union, etc., etc. Therefore, I ask you to respect these suggestions as a proposal because they are, first of all, once again, a consensus of all members of the National Minorities' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74484	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It's the National Minorities Club and the esteemed representative Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74485	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, The National Minorities Club supports the adoption of the Council Register Act, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities. Two terms of work have passed by representatives and the Council of National Minorities, eight years of work and seeking their positions in relation to local administration and self-government on the one hand and associations of national minorities on the other. It is a pity that this law has not been passed before in the quick elections for the council, representatives, which was called for on July 10th when we were sure to refute the elections and go to the elections themselves. It is a pity that all warnings about improving not only the work of the council but also the elections for the council have not tried to agree. We tried to propose, we warned that it would be good to work on the elections together with either parliamentary or local elections, which would result in the quality of the election, greater exits, more polling stations, the possibility of stronger promotions for which so far no means are provided. Harmonisation of mandates to very important arguments, which is the savings of funds i.e. The cost of one of these choices. Today, we are also witnessing that a DIP press release invites the media and citizens to participate in elections and check the voters' list by asking for his addition or correction. Whether to call it hypocrisy or violation of the rights of national minorities because practice unfortunately negates that possibility. Although it is the right of every citizen to freely declare the belonging of a national minority to our office makes it impossible. They seek proof, ask God not if you are somewhere, and even in the record of the intention of marriage you have declared as a Croat you can no longer be a minority even though by gender, language and feelings you belong to that minority. But to get back to the law. In our first reading, we warned that it was not enough to adopt only the Law on the Register of Councils and Representatives but that it is necessary to prescribe both the way and the financing of those organisational forms of minorities for which it has not been done so far, such as for coordination and bilaterally recognised forms of organised minority. As little has been done, the Club of National Minorities and the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities have submitted several amendments. The recognition of the legal personality of all those mentioned in Article 3 has already been spoken here by my predecessors, and we stress that this law would recognise legal personality only for the councils and the coordination of the councils of national minorities until other minority entities would be recognised that status. The colleagues stressed how important it is that the representative also gets legal personality because he is not after the election representing not a natural person but represents an institution. He's got to open a jury account, he's got to file his final accounts, which practically gets him into breaking the law on the one hand. On the other hand, we have a situation on the ground where banks do not give God that such persons are obliged to perform and over the funds that belong to the work of just such representatives. And it would therefore be very important to recognise the legal personality of the representatives, to give them the opportunity to do business legally. The second thing we have warned about, and what we have given the amendment is the constitution of the newly elected councils and the coordination of them and the termination of the work of the old councils and representatives. Although the proposer used the Law on Elections and mandates for the representative bodies of the local self-government unit where the term of office ceases with the election date we have suggested that the term of office goes on here until the newly elected councils and the coordination of the councils for the reason that the work of the local self-government and administrations ceases, but the work continues by the executive bodies, the work continues, the mayor, and there is one continuity, while there would be a gap here that has just shown itself now. According to this mandate, the councils would stop, elections were called quickly. Only a dozen days have been given to propose a list and a series of actions that, unless there is a mandate for the old councils in progress, cannot be done. And I think the amendment will be accepted because it gives one better quality solution. Furthermore, we also abstained from the powers of representatives of national minorities elected in the units of the regional self-government where the legislator gives him here, i.e. the legislator gives him two actually important things. When it comes to the formation of coordination, then the representative is not equal. When it comes to participation in the work, it gives it the same importance as the councils, and we have proposed that the rights and powers of representatives of national minorities elected in the units of the regional self-government, in the work of coordination established for the territory of the Republic of Croatia, be determined by the statute and coordination which is certainly better because otherwise we must also amend Article 4. At the beginning of this law, we stressed that it is necessary to address the issue of funding of coordination at the state level, because the coordination of national minority councils established for the territory of the Republic of Croatia are the bodies operating at the level of the state and the means for their work should be ensured in the state budget in accordance with the constitutional law and analogy if the funds for the councils are provided there at the municipal council level, at the city level for the city council, or at the county level for the county council, then it is analogous that the work of coordination at the state level needs to be provided in the state budget. However, when it comes to the implementation of certain joint programmes, we propose that the funds can also be provided in the budgets of the units of the regional self-government whose councils of national minorities have established coordination, i.e. have joined the coordination agreement. I think that these amendments can improve the law itself, and it will certainly be easier to act and work in practice. Therefore, the Club of National Minorities, with its acceptance, or if the Proposer accepts these amendments, will support this Law, although we think that we may have needed a little broader work and the Council itself and coordination here to regulate. But obviously the future will demand it, and for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74486	Thank you very much, colleague. Dear colleague Boro Grubisic is coming up on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74487	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow representatives and gentlemen from the government, from the Ministry of Administration. The final proposal of the Law on the Register of Councils, the coordination of councils and representatives of national minorities at the time, so before the elections on 10 July this year may be interesting matter. Reading the articles of this bill, I noticed a few things. For example, Article 5(2) states that councils and coordinations acquire legal personality on the day of entry into the register. Legal personality. It reminds me a little of this formula for not giving God the one that was when the June Constitution was voted when legal personality was given to the community of the municipalities of Eastern Slavonia, so I don't know in this I don't know how much and how far this legal personality goes. I hope it's just about associations, so at the level of associations, civil society associations. So it would be about as much as I realized the establishment of councils and coordination somewhere and registration as the establishment and registration of the association, the civil association. Each civil association, including the parties to the registration of a party, shall adopt its Statute which is a basic general act, and shall then adopt other general acts of the Council or of the coordination which shall comply with the Statute. However, when it comes to the Statute itself, it would not be worse to define the Statute of each Council and the coordination of the Council that it is in conformity or in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the legislative regulations of the Republic of Croatia. It states here in Article 6 that the Statute is a fundamental general act. And other general acts of the Council and the coordination must be in accordance with the Statute, but the Statute must be consistent and respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and all. Someone will say that it is understood, that it is normal, but if it is defined and specified then when registering a council or coordination, the Ministry of Administration has such a formula in front of it and looks, as it sees in the establishment of a party and in the establishment of any other association, whether the Statute and other acts adopted by a council programme or coordination, in this case by the Council of National Minority or Coordination, is in accordance with the Constitution and any legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Which is also the task of the Ministry of Administration of Registration and Registration in the Register. I think we understand what this is about. Therefore, it is an objection to Article 6 in which it would be good that when it comes to the Statute of the Council and coordination that there is, there is also a formulation that the Statute is in conformity, that respect, etc., whatever you want to formulate, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, we can also say the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and all the legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. When the establishment of any I say again, any civil association then, and when it is registered at the Ministry of Administration, it is precisely seen whether there are any constitutional obstacles, formulations that do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or with the laws, the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. In order to avoid any doubt, the question in the Statute of the national minority, etc. That would be the right thing to do when registering to the Ministry of Administration. Otherwise Mrs. Chuhnil said here that there were cases, especially in previous elections, when there was no so-called. "positive discrimination" that people often knew because, not because they were forced or coerced or coerced by anyone but simply because they participated in political life at a party, the general party level, and given the situation in the environment and the marital situation, etc., they could state whether they would participate in a party political life rather than because someone would give up something and some of their national identity or membership to a national minority. Now, here's the situation that the Constitution guarantees therefore positive discrimination or double right to vote so that it is no longer current. Therefore, in addition to this, the HDSSB Club should make two remarks on Articles 5 and 6 so Article 5 is not defined legal personality as far as it goes, i.e. legal personality and Article 6 respectively, so the observations that the Statute must comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia. There are no other objections and it is acceptable for the HDSSB club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74488	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the reports. Mr. Ljubanovic, the final guest secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's the final I'd just like to thank all the distinguished MPs and respected MPs on these suggestions, remarks and suggestions in how to improve this text of the final bill. We will take them seriously and then show ourselves to them afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74490	Thank you very much. I'm closing the point. We'll vote when the conditions are right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74491	We are going to vote on the debated and closed agenda points. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Register of the Council of Coordination of the Council and representatives of national minorities. That was a second reading, P.Z. Number 627. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The review of the amendment is divided into benches. I would like the representative of Mr Davorin Mlakar's office to show that the amendments have been submitted. First, we are going to the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, as regards Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74492	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74493	This amendment has not been accepted. I ask that on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities Mr Furio Radin be declared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74494	I'd like an explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74495	Just an explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74496	Yeah. If you allow three amendments, they have the same meaning. The Government does not accept amendments to Article 3 on the grounds that these entities, therefore the coordination of the Council of National Minorities, are not established as coordination, but perform the coordination function in accordance with the provisions of Article 33(7) of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and are not entered in the register, but since they perform the coordination function, we believe that this covered the way they operate, and for this reason we did not accept the amendments, and for the first three amendments, so the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74497	Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74498	The question is simple, if they perform coordination functions they are coordination or not coordination?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74499	They're coordination.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74500	Thank you. Then I take it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74501	This amendment has been withdrawn. The Club of Representatives of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS also refers to the same article. The National Minority Representatives Club is withdrawing. The U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club is withdrawing. So this amendment has been withdrawn. We shall move to the 4th Amendment of the SDSS Representatives Club in Article 4 to paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74502	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74503	This amendment becomes an integral part of the bill because it is accepted. 5th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS and HSU to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74504	Again the same thing, we have several amendments that have the same meaning. The government doesn't accept any of these amendments, I'll take the turn. So the Club of HNS and HSU Representatives, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the 7th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, and 8. SDSS counseling club. The main thing is that these amendments went to the natural person, so to the national minority representative, to be shared in the register with legal personality. This is not legally possible, and we are those problems that representatives of national minorities have in business, given the funding, in agreement with representatives of the national minority club, have taken the obligation to resolve this with a special personal identification number, in which way the funds allocated to such representatives would be allocated to the accounts to separate from the funds they have as natural persons, and therefore we think that we have met the problem that exists in practice, and therefore there is no reason to accept this amendment, it is legally unsustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74505	Mr Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74506	Well this is one problem that many national minorities, the most Jewish national minority, feel in Zagreb and the Italians, the feeling of the Germans in Osijek and Zagreb, in Zagreb better said. I, uh, you see this is about if you don't have a legal personality then in some way your position is questionable. This is the same situation we independent representatives of national minorities. Unlike parties, we don't have legal personality, we have something in between. That thing between us should be regulated, and I'd like to really ask your ministry to do it along with us, to see how to regulate it. I would still put these amendments to the vote because I know how much they mean to those representatives of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74507	Mr. Beus Richembergh also on behalf of HNS-HUS.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74508	So this isn't about a physical person, it's about an institution of representatives. The existing solution is corrupt because it assumes the availability of public money through private giro accounts. It is absolutely inadmissible and even the existing system, though in another segment, and this is the trader individual knows a solution that allows you to separate physically from the legal person. In this particular case, it is not even about this, but about the fact that an institution is established by law. Therefore, when a person ceases to act as representatives by name and last name, it is not the institution of a representative that is abolished but is replaced by someone who is legitimately legitimate in the elections to continue the mandate. So this kind of interpretation of the ministry is absolutely unacceptable and we're asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74509	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club? Nothing? Thank you. We're going to the vote. It's about, we're going to the 5th HNS-HSU amendment the government doesn't accept. Please raise your hands who's for this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities also refers to the same area. Who's for this amendment please raise your hand? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The seventh amendment of the Club of National Minority Representatives also refers to Article 5 which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Committee’ policy area. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to the ninth amendment of the HNS-HSU Club to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74510	The government does not accept the amendment, and we have already given an explanation along with those amendments to Article 5 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74511	Mr. Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74512	Because of the autistic attitude of the government, we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74513	Thank you. Who is for this amendment... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 10th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-HSU to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74514	With the same explanation, the Government does not accept this amendment either.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74515	Mr. Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74516	For the same reason, so the autism of the government, we're looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74517	Thank you very much. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept on Article 7? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11th, SDSS Representatives Club, Article 11(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74518	The government accepts the amendment with the amended content, I hope that the proposings will accept it. The government suggests that the new paragraph 3 reads: "The request for the pre-registration of the Council of National Minorities from the existing register must be submitted within 30 days of the entry into force of this law."
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74519	Roger that. So, this amendment was accepted in a statement as made by Mr. Minister. Twelve, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities on Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74520	It is two amendments, one Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Club of Representatives of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74521	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74522	It's the same thing. The government accepts the amendment with the proposal that this Article 15 reads: "The day of delivery of the notice on the selection of members of councils and representatives of national minorities from the register, the personal names of council members, co-ordination of councils and representatives of national minorities are deleted by official duty due to the termination of the term of office." There was only a matter of the moment of entry into the register and we think that this is how we met the request from the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74523	Mr Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74524	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74525	This amendment has been accepted. Does the National Minority Representatives Club accept it, too? So in terms of what Mr. Mlakar said here. [[Intruder: We accept.]] 14th, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, as referred to in Article 21(4).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74526	Both this and the next Club of National Minority Representatives in Article 21(4). The government accepts the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74527	So this becomes an integral part of the proposal. So it refers to National Minority Representatives' Club. 16th, Legislative Committee in Article 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74528	The government accepts the amendment with the proposal that it reads: "Coordinations established for the Republic of Croatia make funds out of their assets, donations, gifts, inheritances, budgets of the unit of local and regional, regional self-government and state budget, or otherwise in accordance with the law." It was also the meaning of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74529	Thank you. The board? It was accepted in an expression read by Mr. Minister and becomes an integral part of the proposal. [[Intruder: We accept.]] Article 23(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74530	The government accepts what we have previously said in addition to this amendment to the Committee on Law and Amendments of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities under number 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74531	So by the 17th and 18th, it becomes an integral part of the bill. Nineteenth, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities in Article 24(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74532	Mr. President, the meaning is the same in the amendments 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23, so the Government proposes to accept the amendments in part with the proposal that Article 3 of Article 24 of the Law reads: "In order to achieve certain coordination programmes established for the Republic of Croatia, funds will also be provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, and the way of funding will be prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: We accept.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74533	Sustained. Do others apply the same text to this amendment? He accepts in this statement that it is, that is, as Mr. Mlakar explained. [[Intruder: We accept.]] So 19th, 20th, 21st, 22nd and 23rd. This is Article 24(2). And we have a SDSS representative club, 24 amendments, is that the same thing?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74534	Amendment 24 is not accepted, and the explanation with these earlier is the same because the means are spoken of. Since we have accepted these earlier amendments in the proposed text, then we cannot accept the amendment under number 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74535	Are you withdrawing that amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74536	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74537	Thank you. This amendment has been withdrawn. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Register of the Council of Coordination of Councils and representatives of national minorities. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74538	Mr. President, since this law, the law hides the fundamental change in the architecture of the Republic of Croatia and I demand that this law be voted individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74539	There's already been a vote. I gave the vote. Anyone can make a statement. That's how we plead. You're a little late with the proposal. This law passed with 79 votes in favour, four abstentions and 14 against, together with the amendments adopted. You could have set that up before I put this proposal to the vote. We voted that. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74540	And for some points, we have no conditions because there are no applicants or no reports, so we move on to point 14, that is - Proposal for a Decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a constitutional law on the amendment and addition of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government has submitted a proposal for this decision pursuant to Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Legislatives. Reports from the board's session have been received. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister, Mr Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed to adopt a Decision on the Accession of Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft constitutional law on the amendment and addition of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is about, at first, a prominent initiative that came from Croatian defenders and representatives of Croatian defenders' associations to raise the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences to the level of an organic, or constitutional law for which the adoption and eventual amendment require a two-thirds majority of all MPs in the Assembly. This initiative comes primarily from the facts highlighted in the executive foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as well as from the Declaration of the Homeland War and the fact that Croatian defenders are the most responsible for the defence and creation of an independent sovereign democratic and tomorrow of Croatia, so that without their role there would be no Croatian freedom either Croatian statehood, independence and as I said sovereignty. The law on Croatian defenders and members of their families to the level of organic, or constitutional law further guarantees a higher degree of protection of the rights arising from the Law on Croatian Defence and which are used most often by victims of the Homeland War. It should also be pointed out that this amendment to the Constitution would be in the year when we mark 20 years of independence and sovereignty and the day after tomorrow we will mark a significant anniversary of 20 years from the draft Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, for all of this, as I said in the introduction, the most responsible Croatian defenders. Not to be too long, I believe that the Croatian Parliament will support this proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that the law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families will soon be welcomed, above all, by Croatian defenders and members of their families, but I think all Croatian citizens will become constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74542	I thank Mr. Secretary. Do the rapporteurs from the Committee's session want to take the floor? Mr. Vice-President Vladimir Seks, Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 72nd session held on 25 May 2011 discussed the proposal for a decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee discussed the proposal as a parent committee on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is prescribed that the Committee discusses the opinions and proposals of the constitutional nature referred to the Croatian Parliament, and in the process of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, prepares proposals for appropriate acts. The President-in-Office of the Committee proposed that the proposal for a decision be discussed together with the report of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, with constitutionally unacceptable effects of the consolidated texts of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, constitutional laws, laws, other regulations and general acts established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia at its meeting on 23 March 2011, and informed the Croatian Parliament. The Committee president's proposal was unanimously accepted by the Committee members. Describing his proposal, the President of the Committee presented the chronology of events related to the Constitutional Court's report, and pointed out that on 6 July 2010, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, on the basis of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament, unanimously established the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the National No. 85 of 2010. After that, on 23 March 2011, the Constitutional Court established a report on constitutionally unacceptable effects of the consolidated texts of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, constitutional laws, laws, and other regulations and general acts. In the report, the Constitutional Court finds that, on the occasion of establishing the consolidated text of the Constitution in 2010 but also in 2000 and 2001, the rules for the production of the consolidated text have not been respected because they have amended the numerical codes of the articles of the Constitution, which severely undermines the fundamental structure of the Constitutional text. The report was delivered to the Croatian Parliament on 24 March 2011 together with the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was created by the Constitutional Court itself. Following the delivery of the Report and the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court shall, on two occasions, report on the need to correct the consolidated text which they have provided with the report. On the first time in 13 April 2011, the Constitutional Court of the Croatian Parliament delivered a new slightly modified and updated version of the consolidated text of the Constitution and cited the need to simplify the instructions at the end of the consolidated text which they had previously provided and the supplementary explanation with Chapter 7a. The Secretariat of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System was informed by the Office for the Preparation of Acts of the Croatian Parliament for the publication of a telephone call by the President of the Constitutional Court, which warns of another error in the consolidated text of the Constitution. In the report, the Constitutional Court announces that the consolidated text of the Constitution itself will be published on its website the day following the publication of the report in the National Journal but does not state the reason for such action. The President of the Committee stresses that in his report, the Constitutional Court is asking the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System to publish, without delay, the consolidated new text of the Constitution, in a special number of National Journals, and to decide on the erasure of all the consolidated texts of the Constitution so far published and to quote the requests of the Constitutional Court. The request number 12, due to the fundamental importance of the Constitution for the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, should without delay publish the consolidated text of the Constitution in a special number of the National Journals. And request number 16. The Constitutional Court finally assesses the need for the reasons set out in this Report to decide, for reasons mentioned in this Report, on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, on the erasure of all the texts of the Constitution so far published, and to publish it in the National Journal together with the new consolidated text set out in point 12 of this Report. As regards quoted requests, the President of the Committee stressed that the Committee could not comply with the Constitutional Court's request, as the Committee may only give the Croatian Assembly the conclusion as it has given after any amendment to the Constitution and not by the Constitutional Court. In addition, the Chair of the Committee pointed out that the Constitutional Court was based on the claim that the only valid consolidated text of the Constitution was accompanied by a report and published on the website of the Constitutional Court, which was created in such a way as to publish the previously consolidated texts of the Constitution. However, the consolidated text of the Constitution published in the National Journal, No 41/2001, was applied from 2001 to 2010. A year. The mentioned text of the Constitution was the basis for the adoption of general and individual legal acts, it was applied by the Constitutional Court itself. It should therefore be primarily necessary to determine what the initial text of the Constitution was which was the basis for the future creation of the consolidated texts of the Constitution because it is unacceptable to repeal the nine-year practice in the application of the Constitution. Remarking the powers of the Constitutional Court established by the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Board pointed out that the Constitutional Court does not have the power to draw up and publish the consolidated text of the Constitution and the power to report on the occurrences of non-constitution and illegality referred to in Article 129. The constitution of a declaratory nature is in which it follows that the Constitutional Court does not have the authority to order the addressee to take any measures. Following the President-in-Office of the Committee, he expressed the view that there is a possibility that the Constitutional Court, through arbitrary intervention, has been cleared of the text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and its publication on the Internet cells has come out of its power and has caused legal uncertainty both in objective legal order and insecurity in the exercise of rights and obligations by allowing citizens to take the consolidated text of the Constitution which is not authorized or published. In the discussion, the Committee members delivered their opinion and proposals for finding solutions and situations caused by the Constitutional Court's intervention. Professor's Board member, Dr Branko Smerdel, stressed that the Constitutional Court is competent to report Croatian Assembly on phenomena of interest in achieving constitutionality and legality, but that these reports do not have any binding force. Furthermore, it has been pointed out that the Constitutional Court is not in charge of the creation of the consolidated text of the Constitution and, on the occasion of the publication of the professional text on the Internet, it should have some indication from which it would be clear that it is not about the official consolidated text. He also pointed out that the consolidated text of the Constitution established by the Committee on 6 July 2010 and published in the National Journal No 85/2010. the year accepted as the text of the Constitution which has been applicable for a year and has been called upon by state and other bodies and citizens. The consolidated text has been translated into English, submitted to the diplomatic choir and negotiators. It assessed the Court of Justice's inappropriate claim on the report made to correct all legislation and sublegislative acts caused legal uncertainty while only the entry into the text of the Constitution was an exception. In this regard, he stressed that such an attitude could lead to doubts about the legal nature and importance of the Constitution, which poses a potential danger to democracy. The Constitutional Court's report was highly assessed and stressed the need to respect it in its future legal activity in relation to the said opinion that a future conclusion giving authority to the Clean Text Committee should provide for the obligation to submit the text to the plenum's approval within a specified time limit. Member of the Committee of Professors, Dr Robert Podolnjak assessed the legal inadmissible and absurd situation in which the Constitutional Court in its decisions called for the original text of the Constitution which became the practice of the Constitutional Court. Following the establishment and publication of the consolidated text, the Constitution of the members of the committee, Ana Lovrin, assessed the intervention of the Constitutional Court as absurd and inadmissible and stressed that this was precedent in the conduct of the Constitutional Court. Member of the Committee Emil Tomljanović advocated the urgent reporting of the Croatian Assembly on the validity of the consolidated text of the Constitution established by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and published in the National Journal, No 85/2010. A year. In view of the views presented by the committee members, Professor, Dr Branko Smmerde, Prof. Dr. Robert Podolnjak, Mrs. Ana Lovrin, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović, and Vladimir Seks, Chair of the Committee, proposed that the Committee on the Constitution, the Business and the political system draw a conclusion establishing that the only valid and valid constitutional text is the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia published in the National Journal, No. 85/2010. of 9 July 2010, and to report to the Croatian Assembly in a hasty manner in its establishment. The proposal was only opposed by the board member Vesna Pusic, holding that there are several issues that are not connected to each other although members of the board agreed at the beginning of the session that the draft decision to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia together with the Constitutional Court report. The following conclusion was reached unanimously after the debate. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System determines that the only valid, valid constitutional text in force is the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia published in the National Journal, issue 85/2010. the year of 9 July 2010. Secondly, the Committee will report on the determination referred to in point 1 in a hasty manner to the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Committee proposed what was agreed by the representatives of the motions for a decision to join the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Komar State Secretary at the Ministry of the Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, and Zdenka Pogarčić, the head of the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the adoption of a decision on the accession of the Republic of Croatia, which reads as follows: The amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to the proposal for a decision to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a constitutional law on amendments and additions to the Constitution, which is based on Article 147. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 21 April 2011, in a section proposing that the rights of Croatian defenders be governed by the constitutional law adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws by a two-thirds majority vote. 2. In accordance with the provisions of Article 57(1), subparagraph 3 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on the Constitution, the Businessmen and the Political System will, on the basis of the proposal for a decision on accession, submit the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia referred to in point 1 of this decision and the debate held in the Croatian Parliament, a proposal for the establishment of a draft constitutional law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and this decision will be published in the "National Journal" with the proposal: the chairman of the Committee has also agreed to the Committee and has unanimously, with 7 votes, proposed to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the accession of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which is annexed to this report and is an integral part thereof, which concerns the amendment of the Constitution in the section in which it is proposed that the rights of Croatian defenders be governed by constitutional law which is adopted under the procedure for the adoption of the organic laws of 2/3 of the majority of all votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74544	Thank you very much. Do the other committees want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. IDS representative club and colleague representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74545	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. First, in which circumstances the change of this Constitution is approached, but I would also like to note that it has always been the obligation of Croatian broadcasting to follow such legal texts directly not via MAX TV. Why don't you give it up on another occasion? It never happened, it's true, that television doesn't transmit directly, and that much of the opposition doesn't exist, which is also to be acknowledged. However, in what circumstances is this law passed? First, here today we all followed the direct arrest of Ratko Mladic, a big day for the whole Balkans, it is a big day for the whole Balkans. It must be a great day under quotes for his victims, for his victims it means justice, and for all Balkan executioners punishment. And I would like to say so much that before I start talking about the text, the victims of Skabrnja, Vukovar, Srebrenica were certainly not in vain and so much between Croatia in 2011, Serbia clearly does not need to build any new brotherhood and unity, but we should live in peace directed towards each other because otherwise we cannot. We can't go any other way, gentlemen. We can't. It's clear as I said in what circumstances this constitutional law is passed. First, I should read just one text from "The Morning List": 1,000 workers in Croatia each day must support 1100 pensioners and unemployed and this trend is in the upward rather than the descending path. In October of last year, 1,000 workers had to earn 1060 abstentions, and five years ago in April 2006, 1000 workers had to be taken care of "only" 923 pensioners and unemployed and not to talk about how all other trends in one permanent decline. In this constitutional law, understandably in Article 1(2), if I am not mistaken, the emphasis is on the rights of defenders. On the other hand, Croatia is more or less ahead of the economic breakdown, whether I admit it to myself or not. There's no dispute that these borders are still there in '45. The anti-fascists fought, but in the war against hegemony, a large-serb '91. By '95, those borders were defended by the Homeland War fighters. It is certain that without the Homeland War there would be no Croatia, as it is certain that this war is legitimate, defensive, justified and, as the minister said, without that war, Croatia would not have sovereignty or would not own it. On the other hand, when I talk about this financial, economic moment of the Republic of Croatia, you must bear in mind the fact that Croatia is placed at the 18th place of the risk of bankruptcy in the world. So we're the 18th state, and very few of us are, say, 7 or 8. After Spain in Europe, the largest number of unemployed among young people is right in the Republic of Croatia. We have a situation where pensioners feed themselves, unemployed children, grandchildren and people wonder how long. This year we'll have to borrow, here's the former finance minister, at least 30 billion kuna. The deficit may reach 20 billion kuna, tax revenues in the first quarter have dropped, etc., etc. So, under these circumstances and circumstances, this government goes with this law. I'm not going to raise tensions and say it's a political legislative proposal, but I'm going to say it's certainly pre-election because it's a question of what this team in power can offer before the 2011 elections. Among other things, he offers these obligations by transferring the burden of meeting them to another ruling set. One word, after Sanader, is what Sanader did. I'm glad we made a new contract with the church a few days ago, but I would also like to know how much it would cost. The capital is given benefits, some minorities are bought, environments are financed where HDZ is in power, one way is treated "Olinik" on the other, Croatian shipyards etc., etc. However, no one should ask themselves the question of who will earn all this, and so I deliberately quoted a portion of the text that was published a few days ago in the Morning List. Personally, I don't think the defenders need constitutional authority on their position. The constitutional law needs some others, those who, by means of such a law, are struggling to preserve power and need false defenders. I personally believe that defenders should be cleansed of false defenders, so they should be taken by false defenders and given to those who are real defenders. If, at this time, more than 500 thousand names were deleted from the Defence Register, 150 thousand names of false defenders would be significantly improved by the alleged false status of defenders and without the Constitutional Law. That's right, it's 150 grand. Why am I dealing with a number, Mrs. twilight, of 150,000 because it's behind this pay phone in '96, '97? President of the Republic of the late Mr. Tudjman used the information on 360,000 of those who participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia. I personally think that the aim of the government should simply be to get to that one real, real number of defenders, not simply to lie about how we're going to exclude some of the burden-sharing when you know that the state is in front of bankruptcy. I'm also afraid that tomorrow, gentlemen, many will have less if we want to save the country from becoming one new Greece whose people I'm reading right now don't care if they have to pay back the next day, and they owe 300 billion euros, 350, 400 billion or 200 or 250 billion euros. They know that money will never come, they'll never have it, so they don't care what circumstances it will fail. But also before they fail again, they will have to ask for the assistance of the European Union, and in order to get money from which they will survive, they will have to sell their calf, and their ports and their electricity, etc. etc. In one word, Croatia must avoid it so that everyone will simply have such economic security the next day, whether it is about defenders or advocates who clearly did not take advantage of themselves through conversion, privatisation I do not know the scam whether it is about ministers in the future or the current government, whether it is about doctors, social workers, those who work in administration, health, etc. Finally, I also believe that this team in power does not have the moral right of future authorities, say, to transfer a burden like that, for example, we will follow "Brodosplit" as it goes, as much as it costs to cost regardless of any order or no order. I'm sure someone else will have to settle that. Gentlemen, that's not right. A man simply asks himself a question. If we go individually to install individual categories in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then if we give them this constitutional character, should we perhaps install as recently requested by Mr Hrelja and the position of pensioners in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I don't know. The position of the shipbuilder or the position I know of the anti-fascist war fighter. Whatever! Wouldn't it finally be human, civilizational, European and that NOB and Homeland War fighters have the same status because the hand of a lost young man in '44? The years around Buzet or Kozare are as valuable as the hand of someone who lost their hand after the Flash or the Storm. But to be honest, I doubt we're going to spread a leprosy of any rights. But what's what treats this one as a defense code. First of all, when we talk about the same thing to be more than precise. All rights that enlarge the disabled of the Homeland War, if possible, should be increased with the kuna no longer be reduced. All rights of the families of the victims of Croatian defenders should also be increased with the kuna, and everyone else, if possible, is well helped but the response to the mobilization call was one civic, civilizational duty of every loyal citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Our law of defense means for everyone, let's let the disabled and the families of the victims, the tangs and pensions and the double-term internship ok. and primarily the right to employment and certain shares and does not know the advantage of the lease of these land and business premises of local or urban self-government and the re-use of agricultural land, etc. Article 14 The Code of Defences of the Homeland War is literally quoted as saying that the Croatian defender from the Homeland War who, on the basis of the completed retirement internship, has obtained the right to an age pension less than his pension by 40 years, the personal pension rate increases depending on the time spent in the war, up to 12 months by 10%, from 12 to 24 months by 15%, from 24 to 36 months by 20%, etc. etc. A volunteer from the Homeland War for 30% and that sort of thing. I said it was all good, but the question of whether in these circumstances this state can secure at the ratio of 1.22 workers and 1 pensioner of that right. It should also be correct and admit that Croatian defenders certainly, especially these ten recent years, do not matter whether this or the former government has not been neglected, must not be and will not be. But to promise perhaps bread above the cake can turn gentlemen into an impossible mission for a future government. If we have one more time, I'm going to repeat the ratio of 1.22 workers to one pensioner. Is there someone who believes that all circumstances will change overnight for the better and that the next day we will change these trends in a way that we will not know for ourselves what we will do with the money. Does anyone believe that the country will say so overnight, that there will be more money, that credits will not need to be returned, etc. etc. So, for the end of it, I don't want to raise too much tension, so I don't talk about parties and I don't even run away like that. The HDZ may have created a state, but what he did with the nation, I won't speak. You may even have led the defense war, but the state is also impoverished. But let's let it go now. The IDS as agreed by the opposition will vote on this. But I do know that all obligations and all burdens will be realised the next day by some future government.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74546	Thank you. We have two corrections reported. Dear colleague Kulusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74547	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, I hope my colleague Cain was confused when he said the victims were not in vain because Mladic was caught. Knowing him, I don't believe he's confused because there's no price or justification for such a crime from Skabrnja to Srebrenica. Says the victims weren't in vain because Mladic was caught, it's a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74548	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74549	I said well, no victim was in vain because on bones, torture, the blood of those victims was created by the Republic of Croatia. He's under arrest, that's what I said, and it shows a phonogram. Don't impute something I didn't say. Like I said, arresting Mladic for all his victims means justice, and for all Balkan criminals, punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74550	Comrade Caine, in the case of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are impressed in this House we know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74551	Don't let anything I didn't say impute me!
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74552	There's a phonogram to read.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74553	And that's why I said that the victim of Skabrnje, Vukovar, I don't know Srebrenica, Dubrovnik wasn't in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74554	We have a quote that's fixed, and anyone who wants to can and check if it's... authentic was like that or something different. [[The speaker is not understood because of a loud announcement.]] Comrade twilight, have you heard from you, too?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74555	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's what I'm going to do to correct the two incorrect allegations of Mr. Cain. One is that this bill was passed on behalf of the election campaign. No, it is not necessary for this government because this government has restored the dignity of Croatian defenders, unlike the age of 4 when the SDP government ruled, so when it took away all the rights of Croatian defenders and fired 10,000 of them from the police and military. Another false allegation is that this was done for false defenders. No, and that's an incorrect allegation. And Mr. Cain, you keep saying your civic and every moral and patriotic duty is to report every false defense attorney and then the matter will be resolved, there will be a lot less. We're all talking about false defenders, and no one's reporting anyone. That's different. And third, you said that this burden to another government, the future government. No, first and foremost defenders are not burdens and will never be burdened by any state. You don't have to be afraid this government will be a future government, so there's no fear for you either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74556	Followed by the HDZ club and distinguished colleague Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74557	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, today it is indeed an honor for me to say on behalf of the HDZ Club that our club will support the amendments to the Constitution in the sense that the Constitution is complemented and protected by the rights of Croatian defenders. Why do I say it's an honor? I am honored because today is an extraordinary event and not only because I can speak on behalf of the club about this proposal but because I had the opportunity 20 years ago to personally meet Ratko Mladic and stay alive. 20 years ago, Ratko Mladic was commander of the Knin Corps, and in Knin we know there was a camp in which captured members of the Croatian Police and National Guard Assembly were stationed. At the time Ratko Mladic knew what was going on in that camp, he knew what was happening to us, if I had to testify personally about it anywhere and in his role at the time. Today is also the time, i.e. this year is the 20th anniversary and formation of the Armed Forces, and 20 years since the declaration of sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia and for those who may have forgotten it was declared on the 25th, the 26th morning police station in Glina where captured officers were taken to camp, tortured and abused and exchanged. Imagine the irony, again for Goran Hadzic, who is on the run again. Here, I am also pleased to say that, as a representative of the 6th electoral unit, they have initiated this change of the Constitution, therefore defenders from Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County, and this bill has been accepted by all defence associations, and then initiated by these changes with the Croatian Government, the Government has proposed to the Parliament and we are today accessing these amendments to the Constitution. It would also be the order in which a decision on the accession of the Constitution is made to remember the victims of shelled cities in the Republic of Croatia who also took place 20 years ago. We need to remember the victims and the town of Vukovar and Župa and Sisak and Karlovac and Gospić and Zadar and Dubrovnik and all other cities that were shelled at the time. 20 years ago, this situation happened. I also have to say here that in some way as the defender who was here took part in the Homeland War, as we like to say from the first to the last shot in some way sad way when certain colleagues say that this is how the burden is transferred to future generations. I believe that no burden is transferred but to protect the values of the Homeland War in this way and protect the rights of the families of the dead and missing Croatian defenders, their mothers and their widows, their children, and also the rights of the Croatian defenders themselves who, I must say again, no Croatian defender or family of Croatian defenders has been enriched by the law on the rights of Croatian defenders. However, they remained the same humble people as they were, made their contribution not only in the Homeland War, Croatian defenders contributed and restored our country after the war. Because we all remember when it was the restoration of our homeland that the same uniforms that were in the war were also in the reconstruction and people in those same uniforms were building their houses, rebuilding their hearths and returning to their fires. And that's what we need to say here and that's what we need to remember. And here to say once again from this pay phone that it is indeed an honor and pleasure to say today on behalf of the HDZ that we will support this decision on the amendments to the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74558	Thank you. Dear fellow MP Boro Grubisic and HDSSB Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you're here personally as defence minister and intergenerational solidarity. My colleagues and fellow MPs, it is really impressive to have this day-to-day mold, putting such an important point, which has caused the attention of the Croatian public for several days or more in these afternoons when the most powerful media Croatian television is not here except MaxTV, is there any reason why what is causing this? Furthermore, in the explanation of Mr. Seks, we heard what is not the subject of what Minister Ivić is here, which is the reasons of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure regarding numerisation, the numbering of articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the correcting of other failures. What does it have to do with each other I really don't know or try to say, this constitutional category of Croatian defenders to support and this matter which is the subject and which was written by the Constitutional Court and then discussed by the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, and now all of this is to be discussed in one item of the agenda. When we talk about changing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal concerning the placing of defenders, dead defenders, families, etc., into the Constitutional Law. When we talk about marking in two days the 20 years of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia on 28 May if someone doesn't remember me reminding, it's that picture from Jaruna when the late President Tudjman lined up his forces, this time it'll be on Jarun, so I mixed it up. So, when he lined up the Croatian army, the directors at the stadium on Kranjčević's street. Who were those people? Who were the directors and Croatian soldiers? According to the County Court's ruling in Zagreb on 8 May 2009, and the ruling of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia since 1 June 2010, they were a paramilitary unit, as at the time the only regular troops in the Republic of Croatia were JNA troops. And those who attacked the JNA were paramilitary, rebels even with the Serb paramilitary. The decision of the County Court of Zagreb and the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia to explain the verdict of Branimir Glavas. And what are we celebrating on May 28th, Mr. Ivić? Unless the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia admits it. And now we're going to make an alibi for Purda, for Vesna Bosanac, for Gotovina, for General Markac, and now after all the anger of the Croatian people over the verdicts, because of the hearing, because of the prosecution in Belgrade that produces thousands of our people, and also those who were in camps, according to Serbia, Stajić, Mitrovica, etc., so we're going to put one category, one way we're going to put the defenders in the Constitution, the Constitutional Law that you want. Yes it is true that it is an election year and Mr Cain has well noticed, why it is in office that election year and for nothing more. The self-defense of the gentleman from Sisak, with whom I shared, Shantek, with whom I shared the good and evil of the Homeland War as a specialist in the Banovina area, then on Velebit, then in Konavl, then in Zepč, I was also a Jepč, it doesn't matter where I was on duty, the southern battlefield of Zepče yes. At the invitation of Minister Hebrang, is it? So, Mr. Shantek and I gave you a picture of this verdict and an explanation of this verdict, and you were surprised not to say that you didn't. There's also an Internet release of the Supreme Court ruling, on page 164 but it's a lot of reading, I took out what it says, as soon as possible. Will this, Mr. Minister, act of putting a defender in the Constitution prevent further persecution by the Croatian defenders. Will the prosecution in Belgrade, and in fact it seems to me that there is a secret connection, I would not want to go into it, I am not a witness, but what was signed with Serbia and in the talks of Tadic-Josipovic and the ministers from the government, how is it possible that one of the prosecutors of the other state accuses a Croatian citizen of the work "has been done", is or is it not, because of the suspicion of the work done on the territory of the Republic of Croatia? Are we a sovereign state? Do we have our own judiciary? Or do we need the prosecution to say, not the prosecution, in Belgrade, to find justice, so isn't that embarrassing? Then we picked up, soiled who's for or who's against the defenders in the Constitution. It's like anyone's against a defense attorney. So we polarize about it, clearly for political reasons, because it takes a two-thirds majority, so now let's vote against you SDP gentlemen if you can and can. And as for the other part that Mr. Shakespeare was talking about, I'm sorry that he's not here, and I was on the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and I was listening to an explanation of the instructions or how you want an objection or a conversation, a constitutional court discussion that was said not to be in charge. I don't know what the Constitutional Court is about, but the Constitution, why it's called that. I'm so much too much as a doctor thinking I'm not a lawyer, am I? But there he is not in charge of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court is thus told by the Committee on the Constitution and the Business. Is that what Mrs. Pusic said? And yet in the explanation of Article 6 it is well stated that the addition of the constitutional text will be made to correct the loss in numerical labelling. Why do you secretly admit that it's a slip? Why were we fighting? Why was there an outing the other day here, a reminder and a throwout like you said by the end of my colleagues' session, Buric and Vinkovic when it was nice to say it was a slip, when nice people warned about it. Well, it doesn't matter who made the mistake, so we're not here to make personal calls, but to correct what can be corrected and what is normal. It is human to sin, and human to forgive, even to say Christian. So what made us spill blood here the other day and so much blood as is said in Slavonia, so much has been debated in one hateful state that there have been incidents that should not have happened only that this sentence was last in the explanation of Article 6. Well, no one would eat anyone because they said... it was a slip. Weakness is a failure, my God, so we're all human beings, so we're not robots, so they sneak up on everyone, so it's human recognition and human forgiveness and there wouldn't be any traffic or chair, and then it was Vice President Shakespeare who threw out my colleagues. I don't know what to say to Mr. Ivić on this. Namely, when discussing the new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was adopted on 16 June, but during the debate on the new Constitution, the 1st article said that the Homeland War was a defensive war. This means that Croatia has defended itself. I added to Minister Shimonovic then, the minister of justice, that Croatia was also waging a free war. It's one thing to defend and stop the enemy, and then release what he's occupied. That wasn't even foreseen. Your ministry, the government didn't even suggest that it be defined by the Constitution as a Liberation War. And why is that? Well, it's not completely forgotten. So because then there is also an aggressor that we had to defeat and free the state, and quietly trying to hide the aggressor because it was then that the talks were at the highest state level between representatives of Serbia and Croatia. So, the Liberation and Defence War and still here it says in the new material is legitimate, and the ruling of the Supreme Court of Croatia since 2 June turns out that it is not legitimate because the only legitimate regular troops of the military army in Croatia at the time were JNA troops. That's what it says, and I can tell you all that you gentlemen know both HDZ and SDP. He's so hard on the judiciary. It is an independent judiciary by which Croatian generals and defenders are tried, and then we will introduce them into the Constitution to have an alibi and to have an argument for election campaigns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74560	A colleague of the twilight rectification of the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74561	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleague, I'm going to correct you into just one incorrect quote that you said, which is that in all this is secretly hiding the aggressor and that someone wants to hide the aggressor. That's just not true, that's not what I want, then they'll remind me. And why is it not true throughout the whole series of years, and now the president and prime minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, was in a meeting with Mr. Tadic in the middle of Serbia, she said that Croatia was waging a defensive, liberating war, that it was the Homeland War. Loud and clear, she said who was the aggressor in that war. However, the media, of course, did not pass it on except one in the late hours of the night, except for three cartoons. But those who wanted it could have known. So it's not true that this government is hiding the aggressor and that something is being done so as not to name the aggressor when it is clearly well known.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74562	Thank you. The HNS club, HSU and distinguished colleague Pusic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, the subject of our debate on the agenda is the proposal for a decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft Constitutional Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. If you have read the text of the proposal which is that it contains two entirely different proposals and two completely different topics, and it is expected that from two completely different topics on which each representative or representative can vote however they wish, so for one for, for the other against, for both of us, for both of us against voting unitedly. So, it's like it's about one topic. What are the two topics? It is about nomotechnical changes or adjustments to the Constitution. So about a whole series of the above mentioned nomotechnical changes where it will be necessary to align, for example, the number of articles in the Constitution is not correct, so it does not correspond to many of the changes or a certain number of changes that we have had. The number of an article in the Constitution should be changed, a reference should be made to an article under which it is no longer available. Therefore, it is about the nomotechnical editing of the constitutional text and the decision of the Assembly to authorise the Committee on the Constitution, the Businessman and the political system to publish the definition text of the Constitution in the National Journal after the nomotechnical editing of the text. It is, of course, one perfectly normal and necessary procedure that every not only representative and people who use it more often than every citizen and ours and beyond always knows exactly what the current text of the Croatian Constitution is. There was another confusion because the Constitutional Court carried out one let's say the expert analysis it submitted or sent to this Parliament as its report, which cited and reasoned a whole series of non-compliance and the need for nomotechnical editing of the text of the Constitution, and this so-called text of the Constitution was published on the websites. It was found and found that the Constitutional Court was not authorised, so the Constitutional Court is not authorised to publish a definitive or final text of the Constitution, however, they also removed it from their pages in the meantime, but of course there is a need for it. So, it has not changed anything in the measure of things, in the fact that our Constitution is not nomotechnically arranged and therefore is accessed in that procedure which is envisaged and which is legitimate, which is that Parliament is empowered by the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to publish in the "National Journal" the nomotechnically edited text of the Constitution. So that's one topic. Another issue that has nothing to do with this is the adoption of constitutional law or the lifting of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders to the level of constitutional law, i.e. by intervening in Croatian legislation in such a way that one law on one category of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia is converted from regular law to constitutional law. So, two completely different subjects, completely different topics on which, in the opinion of the HNS and HSU Club, it is absolutely impossible to vote in the same way, or vote in the same way, it is possible to vote in the same way, but it is not possible to vote in one package. So once raised for, against or restrained on two completely different topics. So, Mr. Vice President, it's completely unclear to me how we're going to plead on this agenda point. So, are we going to accept one part of the agenda first, and then another part of that item on the agenda, or are we going to declare two completely unrelated things like the nomotechnical editing of the text of the Constitution and the authorisation of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure to publish the consolidated text of the Constitution in the same way as on a completely new subject and certainly not a technical subject, which is to raise one of the laws on one category of citizens, which are Croatian defenders, to the level of constitutional law. Therefore, as regards nomotechnical editing in the opinion of the HNS and HSU, it is necessary and necessary to do so and it is necessary to publish the consolidated text. As regards this non-related to this first part of the second part, which is the essence of the sentence set out in the proposal for this draft Article 1: the rights of Croatian defenders shall be governed by the constitutional law adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws. Why is that necessary? The argument heard different arguments or views that it is necessary to show respect for Croatian defenders, in order to protect the dignity of Croatian defenders, in order to protect the dignity of the Homeland War. First of all, as far as Croatian defenders' dignity is concerned, in my opinion it is not something that is being protected in this way, it is something that people who were really Croatian defenders participated in it unquestionably and no one can either be taken from them or added to it. Secondly, if the Constitution specifically wishes to highlight this, it is in the preamble to the Constitution and is set out in Article 58. The Constitution, to quote the paragraph, so Article 58. The Constitution: special care is given to the protection of Croatian defenders, Croatian wartime wartime disableds, widows, parents and children of the dead Croatian defenders. This same article also mentions the particular concern that the state pays to persons with disabilities, persons who in any way require, need and have the right to special care and special public care, i.e. special public attention. However, when a category of citizens, such as the Croatian defenders here, is singled out for some reason in such a way that the rights of Croatian defenders are defined by constitutional law, unlike the rights of Croatian children, unlike the rights of Croatian people with disabilities, unlike the rights of Croatian youth, unlike the rights of any category of citizens, it can mean or be not trusted by Croatian laws, so if something has the right to exist, in fact, that the right cannot be realised, or that I think it is necessary to separate the principle of not only equality before the law, but also the equality of all citizens and citizens before the Constitution. The violation of the principle of equality of citizens before the Constitution is one very serious move. This is the situation in which it is being addressed in those situations where it is considered necessary to carry out positive discrimination, so where one category of citizens is considered to be discriminated against for any reason under the existing conditions. Therefore, that discrimination is being exercised against that category of citizens in this situation today and that the neutralising or gradually paving out elements of discrimination are being introduced positive discrimination, therefore further guaranteeing them any additional rights, whether their rights are additionally strong by the legal provision, so by constitutional law in order to reverse the existing discriminatory situation. In any other case, there is no excuse to approach any change that violates the principle of equality of citizens before the law, especially citizens before the Constitution. Because what else does it mean to guarantee the rights of Croatian defenders by constitutional law, rather than by regular law, as well as all other categories of citizens of this country. And let us say the rights of any other group that is also listed in this article 58, which is what I said, so persons with disabilities, unsettled persons. So once a whole series of people who are in a special let's say position or a special situation are guaranteed the care of the state. Why is ordinary law enough for them, so regular law and for Croatian defenders is required constitutional law. As far as we're concerned at the HNS and HSU club, the only explanation is the assumption that the laws will not be respected. We cannot function in Parliament on the assumption that the laws will not be respected and we cannot consider or accept the the thesis that it does not matter if the laws governing children's rights, women's rights, the rights of disabled people do not matter. It is only important if the laws governing the rights of Croatian defenders are not respected, so unlike all other laws on the rights of Croatian defenders, we will be raised to the level of the Constitutional Law. It is our opinion that in Croatia, which acts as a normal European civilised country, laws should be respected as they are, and before the laws, and especially before the Constitution, all citizens are equal. We're not gonna support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74564	Thank you. I've got two corrections. A colleague of the twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74565	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and Secretary of State. My colleague Pusic, I am very sorry that I will, what you said and what I will have to fix because it is that people with disabilities, children and so on are discriminated against here. Which simply isn't true. And why isn't it true? Because rights, for example, are further confirmed and strengthened by persons with disabilities. Here it is, on 3 May, so 3 is the anniversary of the entry into force of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. So, full respect for human rights and persons with disabilities has been achieved. This was signed by Mrs. Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor. Som, Croatia. She confirmed and guaranteed respect for the international meaning of law. We also have conventions that apply to children. So we can't talk about talking about defenders, but you're talking about the same way that in some subordinate case children and people with disabilities are.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74566	Thank you. Here you go. It'll serve... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74567	Thank you very much. Lately. I'm referring to article 209 because I don't think Mrs. twilight fixed what I said. So, I said that the fact that Croatian laws, regardless of all other European, international frameworks that of course exist in different categories of citizens, is that Croatian laws that protect disabled people, defenders or any other category of population must be at the same level. So in the same category, they're all constitutional or they're all ordinary. But there's no reason for some to be protected by constitutional law and some by ordinary. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74568	Thank you. Correction Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74569	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, so it is incorrect to quote colleague Pusic when she claimed that this Law and this proposal and that Croatian defenders would become above all other citizens by adopting the Constitutional Law or by including the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence in the Constitution. No, I don't. They would become just as equal as national minorities, as the National Minorities Act is equal protection for the treasures we have, which are national minorities, would be for the treasures we have and these are Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74570	Thank you. It is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and Mr. Representative Stanko Grčić. A fellow Greek will wait a little while because it is the right of the promoter, the minister to report. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74571	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Pusic. It is your right of course to vote on this proposal as you think we should vote, but absolutely not what you said was a violation of citizens' equality before the Constitution. It is not an absolute matter, nor will this proposal for a decision and a draft constitutional law take place any greater rights for Croatian defenders than they have. These rights remain exactly the same as they were under existing law. But the fact is that we would all agree on key issues in the country and one of the key issues in the country is the country's relationship with those who created it, and I think that we will all agree that the most responsible for the creation of the Croatian state is the Croatian defenders and that, as an expression of respect for that fact, what Croatian defenders are responsible for creating an independent and sovereign Croatia is also this initiative that came out as I said in the opening words by Croatian defenders and associations from the Homeland War, is that, therefore, on these key things, especially when it comes to amending the law, they reach agreement and that such and similar laws cannot be changed as they are desired. So it's all on the trail right now. And I will also remind you of the fact that and when this Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers is adopted which is currently valid and which I hope will become the Constitutional Law, that you and the complete opposition have left the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74572	Correction of the quote, dear colleague Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74573	I don't know how much reminder comes into your power honestly while you're here in the House as a minister, but it goes into your power not to quote wrongly what I said. Therefore, it is incorrect that these defenders do not put themselves in a different position as regards rights than other categories of citizens because there is an inequality in the force of legal protection, yes. If disabled, children, births, young, old, etc., are protected by ordinary laws and their rights protected by ordinary laws, then if we want to avoid the inequality of citizens before the Constitution, we must either translate all those laws into constitutional laws or do not translate the law for this category into the Constitutional Law, because this violates the principle of equality before the Constitution in the power of legal protection of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74574	Thank you. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the esteemed counterpart of Greece.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74575	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Croatian defenders are largely responsible for living in a free and independent Croatia today. To defend our homeland, they exposed their lives, many came out of war and out of war with visible wounds on the body and those invisible wounds that are even harder on the soul. Many of the war did not return, and the other women and children, the old parents, lost their foster parents behind them. And we also have to ask ourselves a question without Croatian defenders in order to defend state sovereignty and establish territorial integrity. It is they that we can thank for the fact that today we have the opportunity to build modern, democratic and sovereign Croatia. The rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families are governed by the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and this suggests raising them to constitutional level, i.e. at the level of the Constitutional Law as an organic law of the highest rank which could only be changed by a two-thirds majority. In doing so, it should be pointed out that this proposal came from the Homeland War associations, and motivated above all to ensure the continued and continuous care of the state for defenders and victims of the Homeland War, regardless of political differences and views. Since we are marking the 20th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Croatia and when we are at the end of the EU accession negotiations, we welcome this decision as a statement of respect and recognition for those who selflessly put their lives in the defence of Croatia and its citizens. And today, when we begin to mark here during the three days of the 20th anniversary of independence, that is, the creation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia today in the National and University Library where we had the opportunity to see the presentation of 4 monographs of the Guard brigades, we really felt pride and joy over the state created and the eternal aspirations achieved to create an independent state of the Republic of Croatia. The merits, or rather, deserve the most credit from our defenders. The defenders as bearers and participants of the just defence, as we have heard and freed the Homeland War, which as the Croatian Army, or the victorious army, deserve precisely because of these special merits to be governed by special law and their rights. Therefore, as we see in the opening argument, the successful defence also said in a fair, legitimate, defensive, liberating, Homeland War, which the Croatian defenders put forward primarily, was a fundamental prerequisite for the establishment and defence of the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. This led Croatian defenders to create all assumptions for a coherent development of the Republic of Croatia as a country that accepts the democratic standards of the modern world and opens up numerous approaches to the world in political, security, economic and cultural terms. In accordance with this historic role of Croatian defenders, the creation and defence of the Republic of Croatia is assessed as necessary to protect the rights of Croatian defenders by constitutional law as an organic law of the highest rank in the Republic of Croatia. That's exactly what the HSS Club is about, and that's why we're going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74576	Thank you very much. We're done with clubs. Let's move on with the debate. The first in line is an esteemed colleague of the Vice President, Mr. Vladimir Seks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I would really like to respond in a truly reasoned and dialogueal atmosphere to some discussions, parts of some of the discussions on this subject. First, with regard to the claims and the thesis presented by Mr. Boro Grubisic, who presented it, I listened to his debate, not from this place, that it was unnecessary and superfluous to the whole situation that took place in the last days with the application of strict measures of distance from part of the session of the Croatian Parliament of Mr. Dinko Buric and Vinkovic Zoran. Why were these strict measures applied in the context of this debate? Because I have been accused by gentlemen of violating the Constitution, that I, as the Roman Emperor of Claudio, have changed constitutional provisions despite this, with a clear warning of the Constitutional Court, and that I am, in fact, a person to be replaced, I should resign, I should be expelled from political life. It was because of this situation, because of these allegations and those, I replied then and now and last time that the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia established on 6 July 2010 a unanimous Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system based on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament which entrusted him with establishing the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That's why I reacted when I was accused of violating the Constitution, of voluntarily changing the Constitution and constitutional provisions as a famous Roman emperor or imperialally. In other respects of this dispute that has been developed in dialogue between colleagues Pusic, who spoke on behalf of his party's Club, that what is really the point of the dispute, which will be voted on, that it is two separate situations. In order to fully discuss this thesis, but on the basis of arguments, dialogues, without any other... judicial legal arguments, why I acted and proposed yesterday at a session of the Committee on the Constitution to implement what the members of the Committee and accepted, to hold a united debate on the proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution with the Constitutional Court report, because in the proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution, the Government of the Republic of Croatia came from two basics. One is the basis for amending the Constitution in that part that the rights of Croatian defenders are governed by the constitutional law adopted under the procedure adopted by organic laws, as set out in Article 83 of the two-thirds majority. The government continues on this proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution alone in that part, then the whole debate that was on the Committee on the Constitution, which later takes place today, would be completely unnecessary. Therefore, the Government remained on the draft constitutional law on the amendment and addition of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to two articles. First, the rights of Croatian defenders are governed by the constitutional law adopted under the procedure for the adoption of organic laws and in Article 2. It draws the draft that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers is added to both the words and the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, which means that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence is also adopted by a two-thirds majority. If only the government had paused to amend the Constitution in that part, the Constitutional Law would have made it clear then, now it would be only a matter of measurement whether it was accepted or not. But the Government took a step further, the Government accepted that the draft Constitutional Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should be introduced in the final and transitional provisions of Articles 3, 7 and 5, explaining that these amendments, amendments to Articles 3, 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are proposed by the Government because it takes into account the report of the Constitutional Court on the constitutionally unacceptable effects of the consolidated texts of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Laws, etc. Since I personally did not accept what was later accepted by the debate and vote and by the external members of the Constitutional Committee, and by the members of the Constitutional Committee from the order of the ruling position, that the Constitutional Court has exceeded its constitutional powers and that, in addition to the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, it has established and produced and broadcast the consolidated text of the Constitution, and only the Croatian Parliament can do so. This can only be done by the Croatian Parliament, and the Croatian Parliament has been given the mandate for its conclusion by the Constitution Committee to establish and issue a consolidated text of the Constitution. And that is why there has been this united debate on the draft constitutional law for amending the Constitution with the Constitutional Court's report. As a result, the Committee on the Constitution proposed two conclusions. One is to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a proposal for a change of the Constitution in the part in which the Constitutional Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence is adopted as an organic law by a two-thirds majority. The second conclusion that the Committee on the Constitution yesterday concluded at the session is that the only valid and valid text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was established by the Croatian Parliament through its committee and which was published in the National Journal which it established at its session on 6 July. It was therefore important and necessary to distinguish this because it was an organically related report of the Constitutional Court with the proposal and draft constitutional law for the amendment of the Constitution. There has been no other intention by the Committee which is relevant and authorised in the procedure of amending the Constitution and the Constitutional Law to propose certain solutions to determine which Constitution is in force. Is the current Constitution prescribed by the Croatian Parliament through its Constitution Committee in this consolidated text or by the one who has unauthorizedly imitated in his website the Constitutional Court? These were colleagues and colleagues of the reasons why this debate took place and I now plead and conclude in the end that the Constitution Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept in that part a proposal to amend the Constitution only in the part relating to those Articles 1 and 2 of the draft Constitutional Law on the amendment of the Constitution, and to resolve this second by its conclusion, to confirm or consolidate the own position of its own committee on the valid and valid consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74578	Thank you. We have two requests for corrections. Dear colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74579	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Shext, you're jumping into your stomach again. On the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, you said that the Committee could not accept the opinion of the Constitutional Court, that it was not valid for the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, in this proposal for a decision on the accession to the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in Article 6 of the Constitution, the Government proposes the creation of a new consolidated text of the Constitution is indicated not only because of the amendment and addition of the contents of the constitutional text but also because of the correction of the gap in the numerical labelling of articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of other failures. Now, the Constitutional Court can't order you because he's not proper, that's what you said. But here's the government actually ordering you and we here have article 6 here says that's how it is. Well, now I know who the government, government and government are, and I don't know who the government is, but you signed what it says in that book with your name and last name in the first person of the one, and that's why it's been an awkward definition of how my colleagues expressed themselves, so now I wouldn't want to insult you again or want to... but you clearly reciprocate with a single quote, but it doesn't matter at the end of the day. There are other animals that dove around, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74580	Time has passed, colleague Grubisic. My colleague Pusic, it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74581	Of course this is just what I wanted to say is that this is one juggler... /The speaker turned off./... etc. So he juggles and a little creamy about all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74582	... we're not juggling it in Split with Georgia. You're the one who picked up the license plate on the Businessman's injury. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74583	The famous 209th, you weren't correcting what I said. I didn't say at all what you were correcting that I said. When Article 6 of the Government's draft Constitutional Law amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states: "The Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament shall be empowered to establish and publish the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia." The Constitutional Committee has taken the view that it accepts only the first two articles. 1st and 2nd and not all others. This was agreed by a representative of the Government, representative of the Office for Law. It was therefore unnecessary when we accepted the conclusion that the relevant consolidated text of the Constitution of 6 July 2010 was re-authorised by the Committee on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74584	Mr. Seks, if you need to explain it to Mr. Grubisic afterwards. ... Then you don't have to waste any more time on that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Correction of the quote by Mrs Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In my debate, therefore, I find it not true that there is sufficient reason to mix two completely different topics, which is the nomotechnical arrangement of the Constitution on the one hand and to raise the Law on the Croatian Defence to the level of the Constitutional Law on the other, in order to mix it as one item of the agenda, in order to mix it as one statement in the vote that this is the fact that the Government has requested one letter, it is really not enough reason to mix it. In this letter, the government could demand that the three laws be raised to the level of the Constitutional Law, so in this case we should discuss, for example, the Law on I don't know about the laws of Croatian defenders, the rights of Croatian children and the rights of Croatian students. in the same package. The fact that the government asked for it in one letter is really not a reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74586	Thank you, Mrs. Pusic. I didn't see anything from the corrections to see what was from the Businessman, Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74587	209. My colleague Pusic, you have corrected my incorrect quote, and you have said that it is not enough reason to correct enough reason does not mean correcting the wrong quote. Not enough is not wrong. You know that as a teacher. It can be weak enough, it can be poor knowledge but it doesn't mean wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74588	Thank you, Mr. Shakespeare. Here's why we wouldn't have to do this twice more of our help, so our esteemed colleague, Leco, volunteered for the replica, and then I guess there'll be opportunities to respond that way. Here you go, colleague Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Shex, I assume the reason for this chamber debate is precisely the technical arrangement of the text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So to speak, insertion, skip into the agenda. But there is one serious problem in the conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the formal and real nature. You state that I quote it "you are stating that the only valid and valid constitutional text in force is the consolidated text of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia published in the National Journal by the Committee on the Constitution" and you say that the original, original texts, novels of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia adopted by this Assembly are invalid. So you can't derivate what was adopted by the 2/3 majority as an act of constitutional change with the conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution for the Good Lord. The original text of the amendment is the original text of the amendment of the Constitution and it is valid and no committee but the Constitution, except by the constitution of the envisaged procedure, once again Parliament will say which other text is valid. This is a new legal situation that you want to impose on Parliament through this conclusion. It's not possible, it's not possible. Secondly, it is not correct according to the proposal you put in the Croatian Parliament for inclusion to say the defence population in the constitutional category, i.e. the protection of their rights at the level of the Constitution, together with the technical problems of the consolidated texts. It is offensive for the Croatian Parliament, but also for Croatian defenders. For Croatian defenders, too, it is offensive. I think they deserve a special text, a special debate and a debate in front of Croatian citizens through public service. Croatian radio and television. It is the least Croatian defenders deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74590	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed colleague Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74591	If I heard correctly, you used the word skip. Is that like in that jump plus quiz? It's probably around here somewhere. I must disappoint you again. First you say it is not correct to discuss these nomotechnical matters with a proposal for a change of constitution. And since it is not correct when this was necessary and necessary when the Government is in its proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution, I quote: taking into account the report of the Constitutional Court, etc., this text by calling on the original articles of the Constitution and on the appropriate proposals, etc. So he couldn't close his eyes and not see it, he pretends he doesn't see it, that I'm sorry that you as vice president of the Constitution Committee, one of the great lawyers and members of that Constitution committee, which lately we don't see you at the session of the Constitutional Committee, because to see you then you'd see that it was quite the basis for the Constitution Committee to deal with these seemingly no-technical solutions. And the Committee on the Constitution had to react and it was not right that the Committee on the Constitution would derogate its original text of the Constitution. The Constitutional Committee has established its conclusion that the Assembly may and may not accept, may refuse, that the only authentic text of the Constitution is the one published in the "National Journal" on the day of the amendment of the Constitution. So I don't need a fellow jump plus, I'm going all or nothing, let's go to a million.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74592	Thank you. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74593	It's hard to hear you say all seven in one voice. ... Six, excuse me, six. ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74594	Okay, okay, let's get serious. I think our final messages or our final messages are the same. We all believe that what we've raised our hands for if that's what it is, then let this remain legal and explicit, because otherwise everything else would be a very bad message. And with that thought, we continue to debate. Dear fellow Dragutin Lesar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Four notes. First, when I doubted a few months ago that the Constitutional Court likes to overstep its powers, it was heresy, blasphemous. Now we have come to the situation that in the Chamber and the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has established or had to realise that the Judges and the Judges of the Constitutional Court have crossed the board of their powers a little bit and intervened in the work of the founder. I don't think that's the first time. For the first time, the Parliament must discuss and react. Secondly, the text and the reasoning of the Government's proposal make it clear that when the Government wrote the bill, it came from the assumption that the Constitutional Court was right and that we would have to publish the new consolidated text of the Constitution and therefore it was largely the dilemma of what is really going on here. Indeed, if the government had been a little more patient and waited for the Parliament's word on the Constitutional Court's conclusion, they would probably not have written in their reasoning of the amendments to the Constitution what they are. It would be a good lesson and a message to the members of the government that when it comes to constitutional matter, they wait for the final court of parliament, not that and the priorities come from one conclusion of the Constitutional Court being correct. Thirdly, I don't know who's going to chair and hold the session tomorrow when there's a vote, but I strongly recommend it and ask that a separate vote be put in favour of the proposal of the Constitutional Committee's conclusion because... and I think of supporting him and voting separately for the proposal for a decision to join constitutional changes because I think it is really two separate important constitutional issues. [[You don't understand.]] And as for the amendment to the Constitution, in order for the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence to become constitutional law, I will pass on only four messages from the members of our party who discussed it on Saturday. Of the nine who participated in the debate, eight were defenders and they gave me three short messages. First, ask MPs and MPs for help and indeed protect the defendant's dignity to publish a defence register instead of changing the Constitution. Secondly, ask all political parties not to campaign against us against the backs of our defenders for election and election campaigns because in this proposal we see nothing but attempts at political division of the citizens of this country and of the defenders. And third, they told me to vote against that proposal anyway. And a fourth of my own. Tell me what the workers of this country are less valuable and deserved than the defenders. In the Constitution there is a provision that obliges the state, the Republic of Croatia, to take special care of the defenders and it guides it. There's no word in the Constitution "workman." In the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the word worker does not exist. There is no provision in the Constitution for the Constitution to guarantee workers the right to pay their wages. Does this mean that there is a full right, formal law, moral, political, and however else you want to set up an official requirement for the Labour Act to be the Constitutional Law? Where's the end of it? And I personally believe that opening this topic in the election year, knowing that two-thirds of the support will be difficult, is nothing more than an introduction to one part of the political campaign, and I am pleased that the defenders and our parties have recognised it and thus value this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74596	Thank you. I'm a colleague of the twilight, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74597	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State. Well, colleague Lesar, there's a lot of incorrect allegations you said. But I'm surprised at this letter of yours first, because if it's the defenders, then it's probably some of your strangest or your own hand-written defenders who are looking for those requests write. Another incorrect quote is a colleague that it's a pre-election year so this goes now in the pre-election year. It doesn't work, but it simply doesn't work for this government, I told you already this law needs to be passed, a proposal in the pre-election year. This government has restored the dignity of Croatian defenders unlike your coalition government of SDP who took them and peeled them to the skin, took all their rights and dignity, as you did with your colleague Lesar while you were a union leader of 90% of Croatian workers' rights for a single lunch.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74598	Thank you, comrade twilight. Injury of my colleague Lesar's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74599	Of course, Article 209 was injured by an impertinent act by a colleague. First, I will tell the members of the Croatian Labourists who are defenders what you said about them and what you called them. Some of them have more days or months, years than leaders of different defense associations, and I skipped everything you said about it. You haven't corrected my words at all, my allegations, but you've rudely landed on me because I've passed on their views, and that's my obligation. And when you mention the Labour Act and that I sold something, please return the law from May 10, 1995 to effect again. That's the law. Bring him back again. Bring the Law on the Work of Content from May 1995 and be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74600	Thank you. Let's not do this to each other! Honey, it's not good. Minister, you wanted to go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74601	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Lesar, the proposal to raise the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences to the level of the Constitutional Law and the proposal, above all, by the defenders and representatives of the Defence Associations, was presented at the meeting of Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor and representatives of the 42 Croatian Defence Associations at the state level. So all the associations that exist in this state at the state level were present at the meeting and it was a unanimous conclusion of all those present at the meeting. So people who have a legitimate right to represent the interests of Croatian defenders, people with a name and name. I do not dispute that you speak for one of the defenders. But I'm not contesting that, but I'm saying that there's even been this initiative that's been addressed from the government's session to the Croatian Parliament. So, this is the conclusion of 42 Croatian defense organisations at the state level. And another thing. It's not about any pre-election campaign. When it comes to Croatian defenders, we do not need an election campaign because this government and the previous government have done so much for the benefit and benefit of Croatian defenders over the past seven and a half years, that Croatian defenders in the pre-election campaign should not even be mentioned as opposed to the previous government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74602	Correction by colleague Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74603	Dear Minister, if you don't need defenders for an election campaign, why didn't you install this constitution in this constitution during the last constitutional changes? What were you waiting for the election year? Last year it was a time when Parliament changed the Constitution and could then be built in. And don't, look, I didn't do it, and you do it. Share your defenders. Yes, it is. I said in whose name I was speaking, and you can't take it away from me. And I didn't challenge the law, and I didn't dispute the rights of the defense organizations to make a deal with the government. I didn't call the associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74604	Thank you. Because here is the minister's stenogram, we can say the initiative of 42 associations, but it does not dispute the right for you to speak for those with whom you had a meeting and who represented something. Here, I think I've followed well and that's what it says. If that's the case, then there's no dispute, and we don't have to argue about it, but we continue the debate. It's my colleague Ivan Bagarić's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74605	Thank you, Mr. President. I will look at myself in my debate in part in the second part of the debate and at the discussions that we heard here from our colleagues because there was no need to do so in terms of correcting incorrect allegations or some other comments given that I had already been reported. And at the very beginning understandably, therefore, according to wishes, first of all with the wishes and needs expressed by our defenders, or their associations, the most normal thing to do and to act is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted this, not only because it was their desire and their search but because it was actually one logical, I would say logically putting a picture into a new framework. Therefore, Croatian defenders will not get any new rights with these amendments to the Constitution but in fact these rights, namely the name of the defender, will be placed on a higher level, on a higher standard, and the Government does not do so, I would say now, only for the sake of the defenders but the government does so because of the dignity and defenders and the state of Croatia. Therefore, I think that we are here on this issue in this assembly only divided about it, and everything else is really fine, finesse and in fact different excuses of different people here to interpret this endeavor one way or another and even some among us that every time they happen in the Assembly, I find very important things simply in front of that challenge to step out of the assembly and like here raise their hands, I don't know the opera hands of Pilateski because they don't participate, and in fact there is a lack of respect for what is going on, and that's in this case for the defenders to have the upper hand that suits them. A colleague, Djakic, noted a little while ago when he said that minorities had entered the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So what? Because we do not think that minorities in the Republic of Croatia are any burden but that we think that this is one civilizational reach, we think that national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are indeed Croatian wealth and we expect that if we have achieved national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, these rights and this level of rights that we are that countries where the Croatian national minority lives will also act. We have a different position of Croats outside Croatia, or national minorities. So we expect it to be the same answer. And on that side, it was useful what we did because we can look everyone in the eye and the entire international public and not have the feeling that we lost anything in the Republic of Croatia, but we got it. Now the answer to those who are not here or those who have actually spoken very uglyly about this one perfectly normal proposal to amend the Constitution. As possible to ask the question, I would firstly ask my colleague Pusic, but also my colleagues from the SDP, to ask the question, and they did not ask the question of the vote of Croats outside Croatia in the 11th electoral unit and even conditioned it, be careful that if the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not agree to that condition, or we can say calm souls blackmail, so it will not support constitutional changes and those constitutional changes that were a prerequisite, the condition for meeting those criteria towards the EU. So, if he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn! What are we talking about? So, let's stay away from these kinds of flossules and these kinds of delusions and shows like my colleague Lesar used to say here, while still insulting his colleagues, stating that someone had said something to him. Look, somebody told him something. So I can go out on the street and now I can also meet someone and someone tells me something and that here I represent it as legitimately as that thing behind which there are organized associations or thousands of people or actually common sense. So I think actually in this debate here that was brief, but very symbolic she discovered a lot and revealed a lot. I would refer only briefly to the presentation of counterpart Bora Grubisic, who spoke about, which he also did not have, about the Supreme Court's ruling to Mr Branimir Glavas. If it is true that the Supreme Court ruling is what Boro Grubisic says it is, then it is scandalous for me. I hope one day a court will judge such a verdict. Because at that time there were legitimate troops of the Croatian Army and absolutely for us, personally for me, and I have no doubt at all for colleagues in HDZ there is no problem in fact, because we are not even responsible for such a verdict, but to admit, or to bring that view into this. When it comes to Mladic, I can bring it here now because he is mentioned today in this occasion, although it should not spoil such a nice proposal with one ugly mention of an ugly name and all those connotations that follow him. However, unlike Cain, it does not make me particularly happy that Mladic has been arrested. Among other things, because I do not believe or agree that the victims will only then make sense of the arrest of Mladic, you understand. So these victims were innocent, and the victims were unnecessary and no arrest of Mladic can bring those people back to life and their families. On the other hand, I am also not happy that one notorious criminal and executioner will come to one institution where other people we know to be truly heroes and innocent. In any case, the Republic of Serbia is most likely to be taxed with its arrest, which is, in fact, the exercise of international law and the achievement of certain actually the well-being of political ones, and is not a statement of policy change towards Croats in general, and who does not believe in this question Croatians in Srijem what status they still have in the Republic of Serbia in relation to, say, measure with the status of Serb minorities at this time in the Republic of Croatia. Here, once again, my support for this effort, this effort, and my certainly advocating to those who essentially do not want to give support, or they do not want to see the defenders in the Constitution, and then they say, invent the reasons, explain the reasons I don't know, study and actually politicize, and then they're not able to even stay in that debate at the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74606	Thank you. We have two replicas. Mr. Marinović, here you go, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74607	Thank you very much, Vice President. I agree with my colleague, Bagaric, that all before the Constitution must be the same, and I agree that it is good that minorities and the Law on Minorities are at that level, but some in the Croatian Parliament, and also Mrs Pusic says that minorities are protected so that they are not discriminated against, I understood her exposure at least that way, but the same right would be denied specifically, today she told Croatian defenders. I think this is proof that we have also done well with this bill because the experience of Croatian defenders from the time the coalition was in power is such that there is indeed a valid reason to place the protection of Croatian defenders at exactly the level of the Constitutional Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74608	Thank you. A colleague of the twilight. Well, then, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74609	Well, Mr. Chairman. You just said in your last sentence what I wanted to tell you in the replica. Of course I agree with your presentation because those of us who are here and those of our colleagues sitting on some committees today are interested in this topic and we want to talk about it, and we are not interested in whether there are 6 cameras or 7 cameras here, but we are interested in saying what we are thinking. When we look around us then we see as usual there is no SDP in the key situations that decide for this Croatia on defenders, they are not interested too much anyway. But there's no amazing HDSSB, and they don't care about anything when they're not in front of cameras, there's no Labourers, there's no Caine, there's no one but the HSS coalition, the HDZ. And then somebody say it's some pre-election law, it's not. You said everything in reality that I wanted to say and that was my contribution to your presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74610	Thank you. Reply to the replicas of my colleague, Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74611	Thank you very much. Very briefly, therefore, colleague Pusic has indeed said that she sees it in the adoption of such a law, i.e. the change of the Constitution not implementing other constitutional rights guaranteed for other groups of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. It's really unacceptable, incomprehensible, and I'm surprised she's still a university professor that she could say something like that. On the other hand, Mrs. twilight, I have no doubt that we would argue equally here that it's ten and a half hours in the morning and that all the cameras of the world are on fire, because we're experiencing this, we recognize it, we live it. I'm not saying that there are no other people who also don't see it that way, but obviously, what they're accusing us of is that we're doing it because of a pre-election campaign, etc., they're testifying, because if it wasn't, then people would be sitting here, they'd show interest and respect even if they were against a decision like this. Here's a question to think about: If this was a time of transfer, would the Assembly look like this on the other side? Who thinks he would, then he's naive. We all know that it wouldn’t look like that, because actually being in the assembly or not being among some of us is the most visible statement of whether they have an interest in something or not and whether they are selling it to the public or not, yet accusing those who truly want it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74612	Thank you very much. counterpart Josip Djakic also came forward for the debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is a proposal for a decision to join the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia so that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences and Members of their Families becomes a constitutional category for sure is the same desire and need, but above all, the desire of the victims' population's initiatives, where I attended meetings regularly, which they designed, which described the reasons and which put the Government in the procedure of such a proposal that would certainly end any politicisation, any call, any attack or any further political confrontation over the population of Croatian defenders. And all of this today is an absolute indicator of how much anyone holds up to... The Homeland War, to Croatian defenders, to care and care for them, to care for the family, to the children of the dead, is manifest today and to see who is the stepmother and who is the mother. This proposal to include the law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia would certainly interrupt any doubt as to whether the left or right, whether the middle or any other option, has the right or the ability to change the demeaning, deny or degrade. As it has happened in previous times and we must remember thousands of decommissioned but also millions of kunas spent paying judgments that are... the rights of those who have been disproved. As well as members of the families of the dead as disabled people of the Homeland War, as children, as mothers and parents, as widows of equal energy were disfigured. The energy that shined evil and hate. And today, when this constitutional proposal comes to the benches of Croatian MPs, instead of showing their understanding, to end this tape of doubts about their reluctance towards Croatian defenders, I would say in their hatred to individuals, in their condemnation when they say that we were aggressors, although we are not, each will be recognized by them who participated in any work or action. Today, if the two-thirds majority, as provided for by organic laws, could certainly close the historic map on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Armed Forces and the independence of the Republic of Croatia. All together, as political factors, regardless of what side they come from, would surely close the defence population and there would no longer be an opportunity to emphasize their rights rather than their privileges, at any time debate on any occasion or be used in any election promotion as a matter of pro-prosecution. This would certainly end the historic task of representatives in the Croatian Parliament by all normal politicians. This is how they leave doubts that they were really against creation, that they were really against weapons, that they were really against independence and independence, that even today two about whether the Homeland War is just, defensive, liberating. Did your honors really defend Croatia with your heart, soul and without weapons. Many times more powerful than any tanks, any missiles, any planes, they put their bodies in the defense of their homeland. It is possible that individuals from political options who are not present today in the Croatian Parliament would wish Croatia had been the one in '91. Destroyed, subdued, that there was still a five-point star hanging here, that it was still a socialist parliament, that they were still as they suggested they had features and all that the former Yugoslavia had. Independence and independence are certainly the foundations created by the Croatian defenders. And today it was nice to hear that man who repeatedly bypassed the real truth that he admitted finally that HDZ was the backbone that mobilized, created and defended the Croatian state. And he is now more to us here in the Parliament than any others who have untraceablely disappeared when talking about these things which are of historical importance and which would be good to close right in the circle of Croatian treasures as well as national minorities, to steve the frameworks of the Constitution where they belong. They can't all be constitutional categories for sure. But I must stress when Mr. Lesar mentions that there are no workers in the Constitution. 360 thousand Croatian defenders are employed and working and are workers but also defenders. So many cooperatives were founded, so many apartments were built, so many cared for families of those disillusioned dead and victims were certainly the price paid by the Croatian State and ensured that they lived in the country they wanted to live in the country for which they were sacrificed, that they lived in the country happily, permanently and not to be the subject of anyone's attack. I'm sorry today that there aren't all those who should be here. Both my colleagues and the chairman of the Committee on War Veterans and members of the Committee who should be present in this debate and who should clearly express their views and opinions as well as colleagues from the Party who left this session for known reasons, which Croatian defenders certainly represent no category for them, not the Constitution. I believe that there is also hearing that there is political wisdom to support this proposal, to bring two-thirds of them these constitutional changes, so that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and members of their families will become a constitutional category and that it will cease to be politicised in this very category of people, as well as in national minorities, because they are one of the constitutional categories. If it is a treasure to have national minorities then it is certainly a wealth and treasure to have Croatian defenders to have them as a category of people most responsible for defence, for liberating the homeland, which is the most responsible for today's freedom and independence, for today's North Atlantic integration and that today's step towards European integration. Surely that category has the right to be in the constitutional category. 48 associations were at the last meeting or 42, according to the minister, and 28 were at the Police Academy when we sent the motion for a decision to the government. If that doesn't talk enough about community, about joint initiative, about the real need, then I don't know who should be right. Once again, it would be politically wise to bring and support this proposal to end the politicisation of Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74614	Thank you. The replica of colleague Mato Bilnjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74615	Mr. Djakic, I'm signing everything you said, and I'd just like to add something to the concern of the Croatian defenders. It is certain that a large number of Croatian defenders are terrified if there is a change in government what will happen. In 2000, such solutions were, you were not born in the Republic of Croatia, you lose your right. You're not wounded here and you're losing your right. Hundreds of thousands of people lost their rights. Thank God, and yet we are the rule of law, and this has been dealt with by law in those years, and the most resolved since the arrival of the new government in 2004, has been restored to these people. Today, a colleague spoke, and he left immediately as some of his members wrote letters to him. I have hundreds of e-mails that can show hundreds of letters and faxes of people who have defended the Republic of Croatia in the uniform of the Croatian Defence Council, who were just across the Sava River and defended the borders or that depth, which this Parliament and this government have made a decision to live in the Republic of Croatia today and to recognize their rights, to have the right to live a decent man because they defended the Republic of Croatia. They're afraid that tomorrow someone's gonna get their hats up and say, whatever we have, we need a couple of million dollars, we're going to get rid of all these members of the Croatian Council of Defense, we're going to take them off, we're going to go down from the Croatian Council of Defense, so I'm not repeating what's been going on right now, and those of us who have been at war know how much they've given together for this country. And it would certainly be wise for once and for all to be resolved and that only two-thirds of the majority in the Parliament can be touched into those rights of Croatian defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74616	Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the requests for a hearing. I'm closing this point. We'll vote when the conditions are made.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74617	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on Accession amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a Constitutional Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the motion for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, by a majority vote of all MPs, decides to approach the amendment of the Constitution. So we need at least 77 votes to make this decision. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to join the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was established by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get involved and vote. Let's get involved and vote. Are we? The result? This proposal for a decision to join the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was adopted by most votes, 79 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 31 against being established by the Constitution Committee, Rules of Procedure, the political system of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74618	And since time has not yet expired for us, and I think we have working conditions, I suggest that in these conditions we unite these points related to the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO peace operation, points 10, 11 and 12, if you agree? You agree. - Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO Peace Operation in Kosovo (KFOR) - A proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the responsibilities of NATO commanders and other NATO authorities in NATO-led peacekeeping missions and operations - A proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO's Peace Operation "Unified Protector" is the same government's proposal, the same is found in the same way. The boards are in session. We've received reports from the board. And here is our proposaler, on behalf of the promoter for all three points, the respected Secretary of State Željko Goršić, and I give him my word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I welcome you all. Here is the decision of the Croatian Parliament of 20 June 2009 to participate in this peace operation, so 20 members of the Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defence with two MI171S helicopters. Armed Forces members are stationed at the US base in Uroševec as part of a multinational task force east with the United States as a leading country, but under the direct command of KFOR commanders. Based on our successful engagement in KFOR in the Republic of Croatia, trust has been expressed and has been offered to complete the headquarters position of KFOR Staff Chief of Staff, Logistics and Engineering, a commanding act of the KFOR brigade. In the context of accepting the fullness of that duty and in the event of a possible future need to increase the number of members in this peace operation, it is proposed that a decision be taken to approve a reference of up to 25 members of our Armed Forces to a peacekeeping operation in 2011 and 2012. We therefore propose that, in accordance with the Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, civil protection and civil servants, passengers in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad, the Croatian Parliament shall decide to refer to the NATO peacekeeping operation in Kosovo in 2011 and 2012 to 25 members of the Armed Forces with two helicopters with the possibility of rotation. In addition, this Croatian Parliament shall make a decision authorising the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the duration of rotation or the number and organisational structure of members for each rotation and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament following the completion of the participation of the Armed Forces in the peace operation. As regards the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the responsibilities of the commanders, commanders and other NATO bodies, the Republic of Croatia has also accepted the obligation to participate in the work of the NATO joint bodies, primarily in the commands and headquarters. The Republic of Croatia also received its share in NATO's peace-doping command structure, which includes 25 positions plus one leading position that Croatia shares with Albania on a rotating basis. At present, only 10 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are addressed to those positions. On the basis of a usefulness assessment, it was also started with a reference and a full of voluntary national contributions to NATO's peaceful command structure. These positions are not in NATO's permanent command peace structure, but are of paramount importance to NATO and are also in NATO's bodies. These institutions establish and finance some of the NATO members, and the other members support them. All members of NATO-led structures should be allowed to also be directed to NATO-led operations in the performance of their tasks. We therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt this proposal for a decision that, if necessary, members of the Armed Forces who are in charge of NATO-led peacekeeping missions, headquarters and other NATO bodies in 2011, 2012 and 2013, may, if necessary, be assigned to NATO-led peacekeeping missions or operations in the context of tasks carried out in their duties in command, headquarters or other NATO-led bodies. Also on the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO's "Unified Protector" peacekeeping operation, the UN Security Council of Resolution 1973 of 17 March 2011 declared the flight ban zone above Libya. Following this North Atlantic Council, it decided to take measures and carry out an operation to ensure compliance with the UN Security Council Resolution 1973, a ban on flying over Libya's territory. In order to monitor the air operations of the Alliance against Libya, the command of the Izmir Air Force in Turkey, which is part of the Joint Forces Command in Naples, has been declared by the Joint Air Force Command because of the scope of the operation and certain operational advantages. Participation in peace operations is the most concrete contribution to strengthening stability and security in the world. Peace Operation Unified Protector is important because participation in such a demanding situation profiles the Republic of Croatia as a reliable member of NATO and an international community that can meet greater security challenges. The participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in a peace operation ensuring a no-fly zone over Libya and other civil protection measures in Libya significantly boosts the political and military credibility of the Republic of Croatia within the NATO alliance. By sending members of our armed forces to the aircraft operating center... in Italy, the Republic of Croatia is very acceptablely involved in a peace operation. [[You don't understand.]] The possibility of jeopardizing the security of our members is minimal, and they cannot be sent to other areas of operation without the approval of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament decide on a NATO peace operation... in 2011 and 2012 they refer to the aviation operational centre... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Italy up to two members of the Armed Forces with the possibility of rotation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also noted that for all three decisions we have, therefore, a positive opinion of the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74620	Thank you, Secretary of State. The committee's reporters? No, I don't. We're going to the clubs. The HSS Club is a respected representative of Boris Klemenic. Here you go, Mr. Clemenich.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As we all know, the Republic of Croatia officially became a full member of the NATO Alliance on 1 April 2009 after which the foreign-political position of Croatia strengthened, and its ideas and interests are more successfully profiled in international forums, and the Republic of Croatia participates in decision-making on NATO participation in international operations. However, it is also important to stress that by joining the membership, Croatia has also accepted the obligation to participate in the work of the NATO joint bodies primarily in the command and headquarters. Thus, the Republic of Croatia received its share in NATO's peaceful command structure, as described through the category of additional tasks. Following this, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia who are headed for a position in NATO's peacekeeping command structure may be sent to the area of operations as it is one of the main tasks of the NATO alliance. Although their basic work is working in NATO authorities, our soldiers can also be sent to the area of some of NATO-led operations for a period of one year during the term of office. After becoming a full member, Croatia received its share in NATO's peace-doping command structure, as we heard 25 positions plus one leading one that would most likely be reduced to 17 positions after the last NATO Summit in Lisbon, where it was decided to approach the rationalisation and reform of the command structure. By participating in military and peace operations, Croatia raises its reputation in the world, fulfils its international responsibilities and obligations to stabilise the dangerous crisis hotspots from which instability flows and simultaneously develops capable and effective Armed Forces compatible with Allies and conveys its previously acquired knowledge. In the first half of the 1990s, in the time of the Homeland War, Croatia unfortunately experienced a painful fact, which means being alone and almost unarmed, which was certainly one of the key reasons for joining NATO. Today, we cannot know what the future brings us, and NATO membership is therefore coming under quotes as a policy of insurance against this uncertainty and against uncertainty in the future. The security guarantee shall result from Article 5. The North Atlantic Treaty, which determines that the attack on one member will be seen as an attack on all of them, in which they will respond in an appropriate manner. Of course, in order to obtain the right to such solidarity aid, it is necessary, in turn, to be willing to react in a solidarity manner even in the event that another member is threatened, in the event of the sending of members of the Armed Forces to office in command, headquarters and other NATO bodies. Accepting NATO membership brings numerous benefits, but also includes responsibility. So the club one of these proposals that we heard from three of them in this united discussion of the HSS Club thinks we made a good decision by accepting each other. As regards sending, or a proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, so-called Kosovo. The Croatian forces have been participating in the NATO operation since 16 June 2009 after the Croatian Parliament decided on the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces in NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo popularly called KAFOR. The decision, which was published in the "National Journal" 85/2008. NATO peacekeeping operations in Kosovo are prescribed to lead up to 20 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia openly and strongly supports NATO's efforts to preserve peace both in other areas and in the area of Kosovo, since Kosovo is in the very close neighbourhood of the Republic of Croatia, our side is rather interested in the effective and successful implementation of a peace mission in the area. The main task of the Croatian contingent, as we have heard, is the translation of people and burdens, and the contingent consists of three crews of helicopters, an air technical maintenance team and a national support element. It is also important to stress that this is NATO's first Balkan operation involving Croatian soldiers with their own air transport component. In fact, MI-171 helicopters are used according to their abilities and features of exceptional characteristics, fast maneuvers and forces into positions. It is therefore suitable for fast, safe and efficient task-making. It should also be pointed out that all contingent members are carefully selected as experienced scientists who can accomplish all tasks. The HSS Club therefore believes that there should be no dilemma about the decision to increase the number of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia from 20 to 25 members, more so than the basis of the previous successful engagement and action of Croatian Armed Forces members of the Republic of Croatia has been offered the headquarters position of the assistant head of KFOR Staff for staff, logistics and engineering of the establishment act of the Brigadier at KFOR Command. And the third decision concerning the no-fly zone over Libya within 24 hours a day for 7 days in a week Croatia as a full member of the NATO Alliance has the opportunity to contribute to this two-seat action in Italy's aviation and operational centre. The participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in this peace operation significantly boosts the political and military credibility of the Republic of Croatia within the NATO alliance. Only the participation of our officers in this military operation, as is evident from the decision itself, is foreseen for 2011 and 2012. And on behalf of the HSS Club, all three decisions of the HSS Club will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74622	Thank you very much. The club of HDZ MPs, the respected representative Branko Vukelić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74623	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. When it comes to the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, the KFOR Club of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the proposal for this decision because participation in international peace operations is in line with the strategic definition of the Republic of Croatia, which is why our country is classified among the responsible members of the International Community who are willing to take over its part of the burden of general security. The Republic of Croatia strongly supports NATO's efforts to maintain security in Kosovo. The current crisis takes place in the immediate neighbourhood and in the area in which the Republic of Croatia has express political, economic and strategic interests. On the basis of the successful engagement of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, trust has been expressed, we have also heard from the State Secretary and has been offered for the full and joint position of KFOR's Assistant Chief of Staff for Personal Logistics and Engineering and in terms of acceptance and completion as well as possible future fill-ups to increase the number of members of NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo has been proposed to approve a decision authorising the deployment of up to 25 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic in that peacekeeping operation in 2011 and 2012. NATO is conducting a peacekeeping operation in Kosovo to support wider international efforts to build peace and stability in the environment. KFOR's core tasks are preventing and restoring hostilities, building a safe environment including clear public order and peace, supporting international humanitarian efforts and ensuring the implementation of signed agreements. Therefore, the HDZ Club, as I said, will support this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the proposal for this decision. When it comes to the proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mandates, commanders and other NATO bodies in NATO-led peacekeeping missions and operations, it is clear that by entering full NATO membership, the Republic of Croatia has also accepted the obligation to participate in the work of the NATO joint bodies primarily in the commands and headquarters. Upon entering full-fledged membership, the Republic of Croatia received its share in NATO's peaceful command structure, which now includes 25 positions, reform, re-establishment of command will likely be 17 positions, so slightly less. Each post in NATO's peacetime command structure is described through the category of additional tasks, with almost all military posts described as immovable, which means that persons working in those places can be sent outside or outside NATO's borders. Therefore, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, directed to such positions in NATO's peacekeeping command structure, can be deployed to the area of the operation because it is one of NATO's main tasks. By accepting these positions and by sending members of the Armed Forces to work on such positions, it is implicitly accepted that our members, by order of that time, can also be directed to NATO-led operations, with a follow-up national decision. Implementation of operations is a fundamental function of the Allied Operation Command and of all subordinated commands and institutions. All members deployed in NATO structures should be allowed to also be directed to NATO-led operations in the performance of their tasks. This will allow the normal functioning of NATO's bodies and commands in the full range of their work cycle as well as the corresponding contribution of the Republic of Croatia to their action. Therefore, we agree and the HDZ club supports and will support the proposal of this Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the duties of Commands and Staffs. And when it comes to the proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the RS Armed Forces in NATO's UNIFIED PROTECTOR, participation in the peace operation is the most concrete contribution of the Republic of Croatia to stability and security in the world. As our Armed Forces have been known to participate in many peacekeeping operations either led by NATO, the EU or the UN, and it is clear that when the North Atlantic Council decided to take measures and carry out operations to ensure that the UN Security Council resolution is respected in 1973. – The ban on flying over Libya's territory and other measures to protect civilians and populated areas is clear that NATO's command then asked all NATO members to contribute. It is therefore also a proposal from the Government, and based on an analysis of the Armed Forces that the possibility of our contribution to this peace operation is in fulfillment of two, therefore, positions and levels of the lieutenant and captain. It is about positions which are estimated to represent a good opportunity for members of the Croatian Air Force and anti-aircraft defence to gain the necessary practical experience in working in situations of real crisis and conflict, in duties for which they have already conducted training according to NATO standards, and do not have the opportunity to train them in everyday work. The participation of members of the RS Armed Forces in a peace operation ensuring a no-fly zone over Libya and other measures to protect civilians in Libya significantly boosts the political and military credibility of the Republic of Croatia within the NATO alliance. By sending members of the Armed Forces to this operation, the Republic of Croatia is very acceptablely involved in this peace operation. The possibility of jeopardizing the security of our members is minimal. They cannot be sent to other areas without the approval of the Croatian Parliament, so the HDZ Club will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74624	Thank you very much, colleague Vukelic. The other clubs didn't answer. We also have one application for an individual debate, distinguished counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. So here are the proposals ahead of us, proposals for decisions on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO peace operations in Kosovo as well as NATO in UNIFIED PROTECTOR, as well as in NATO-led operations and their commands I certainly support and wish to congratulate them on all the successes that have been done so far in the efforts and participations in peace operations around the world. Certainly in Kosovo as well as in Libya, as well as in NATO's commands, all praises are given to our forces and our officers, officers and soldiers who honorably present the Croatian Army and Armed Forces around the world, who only receive praise for their engagement. And I just want to say briefly that in the 20 years since the draft National Guard Assembly, which has grown today into the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, we can certainly only make such quality proposals for further participation in NATO operations with maximum promotion of the Republic of Croatia worldwide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74626	Thank you very much and fellow Djakic. If there is no need for a final address, I also conclude these three points. We'll vote on them when the conditions are met, and I believe the terms will be tomorrow at 11:30. I think the notice's gone that it's around 11:30, that after that we're going to celebrate a little bit, right? But before that, we have to work. So we are scheduled to work from 9.30 and that the first point with which we begin will be the report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010. Thank you for your patience. Have a nice evening tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-05-26-0.u74627	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO Peace Operation in Kosovo (KFOR), the proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. I stress that we are in line with Article 7. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to make this decision requires most of all representatives, i.e. At least 77. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the NATO Peace Operation in Kosovo (KFOR). Let's get involved and vote. Score. The motion for a decision was accepted by most votes, 106 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we continue our work and with the announced agenda item - Report on the work of the National Committee for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2010. The proposer is the National Committee. The national committee has submitted this report pursuant to point 2. Decisions of the Croatian Parliament on the establishment of the National Committee. You received the proposal by mail, the government delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. National Committee President Ms. Vesna Pusic please.
