ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. You are facing the Final Proposal of the Criminal Code, and I must say that this is indeed an extremely important law on which a working group established at the Ministry of Justice has been working since 2009. A great deal of work has been invested in the Penal Code. At the head of the working group, Professor Ksenija Turković was the joint judge of the Supreme Court, county courts, deans, professors from the Faculty of Law in Osijek, Zagreb, Rijeka and Split, and we really think we have a good proposal of the Penal Code before you, because the existing Penal Code has been since 1998. He's been changed 12 times and simply since '98. To date, life conditions have changed significantly, we have some different forms of behaviour and we have some different phenomena that the existing law can no longer give answers, regardless of which it has been changed 12 times, and in the good part we have implemented in this Penal Code international documents, conventions, directives, but here now the Penal Code is fully modernised, we adapt it to our needs and we implement and directives and conventions everything that has been brought into criminal law by international organisations. I would say here that in relation to first reading, the very structure of the law, the very essence of the law has not been changed, but we have, of course, analyzed all the remarks that are highlighted in the first reading that are welcome, especially on committees, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice by the Clubs of Representatives, and we have carried on even further as we had before the first reading a whole series of round tables and these thematic ones according to certain types of criminal acts, according to certain chapters of the Penal Code. We also wanted to hear civil society, we wanted to hear the general public and the professional public, and we tried to actually install it in this law. I would say that the key changes here are maybe to go about the crime of non-payment of salaries, there have been a lot of debates with both trade unions and employers' associations and on the Economic and Social Council and on round tables. And I have to say, we've been there all the time between two extremes. One actually wanted any default to be paid to establish the law as a criminal offence, and the other took a completely different approach, so that there is no almost criminal act but that it is a matter of civil proceedings and compensation for damages and compensation for unpaid wages. We looked at the clear and comparative law, we looked at the environment. It is no secret that, most of all, when we did the Penal Code as a role model, we took German law, Austrian law, Swiss law and other solutions to certain other EU countries. Here we have adopted remarks on this crime of non-payment of salaries, that it no longer applies to non-payment of more salaries than we are now saying is incrimination of non-payment and part of pay. And it is no longer as in the first reading necessary for someone not to pay for the purpose of obtaining illegal property benefit to themselves or to others, but in accordance with the observations of the Assembly Committee on Development and Reconstruction and of the Croatian Employers' Association, we said about the unregulated financial operations in the Republic of Croatia as obstacles to the application of this criminal offence. And it is now prescribed that there is no criminal offence if there has been a default because the employer does not have funds in the account or does not have enough funds, and this lack of funds has not been achieved with the aim of avoiding payouts. In addition, we adopted one remark, and we said that there should be equal treatment for non-payment of salaries and non-payment of contributions. So the salary now is no longer just what the employee, the worker gets as a net amount, but the wages are actually all those contributions that need to be paid with the salary. Another remark we have accepted is that one day in prison or one day in a fine is replaced by 4 and not as in the first reading with 2 hours in the general good. We looked at the solutions here, so we looked up here to the Swiss Penal Code. Because as you know, it's not disputed that our prison system is pretty crowded. We have a lot more inside prisoners than we have capacity still actually in the criminal policy itself related to the prison sentence itself, and we go with measures to strengthen this institute of working for the common good, that for those short-term prison sentences people are not in prison, which is not a meaningless cost to the state, and yet in terms of resociation, we are not sure how good a measure it is. And that's why we're setting up and putting a focus on this work for the greater good. We also accepted the objection of the Assembly Committee on Justice and the limitation of the deadlines for the most severe crimes we extended from 30 to 40 years. In addition, it is important to amend the proposal of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse and the criminal offences of unauthorized possession, production and drug trafficking as well as the possibility of drug use, we have also classified substances banned in sport, so that doping is now covered by this criminal act. In our first reading, we didn't have a crime of nadirism. On the proposal of the Bar Association, we return this crime because we also believe that it should be left as it is now, slightly differently designed. As regards the observations made by the Ministry of Finance, in this final proposal of the Criminal Law, we also included two offences under the Law on Criminal Works against the Capital Market, the abuse of privileged information and the misuse of the capital market. We have here a lex specialis about precisely the number of criminal acts, but we couldn't put all the crimes here into this law because in the very special law there is terminology, there are also basic institutions related to the capital market. And now that we've taken it out of a special law and put it into this, there'd be a misunderstanding, but we've watched these two key acts for the sake of integrity to be in the Penal Code. Of course, the law is more transparent because, in accordance with the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have included a new article in which we have exactly counted all the acts with which we are harmonising the Penal Code, so all the directives, all the conventions, so that it is transparent and everything can be seen. A significant newspaper, by its reputation in the Austrian and Swiss legislation, is a partial conditional conviction that will also contribute to the discharge of our prison system. There was an observation that we put a little too long when the law came into force. In our first reading, we predicted that the law would enter into force on 1 July 2013, but given the observations made in the public debate after the first reading, we suggest that it be on 1 January 2013. We believe that in a year, all bodies will be able to prepare themselves for the application of the Penal Code. As you know, it takes a clear time for both the courts and the state's attorneys to prepare for the application to see new institutes because no law written by practice always best shows whether we have covered everything by law or not and in such a large law it is really possible for certain institutes in practice to show some inadequacy, some indeterminateness, and then, on stage, a court practice which must, by its interpretation, take up that space with its views and enable the full application of the law. Since we have a judicial academy that works, which works on the education of judges, state lawyers, with one organised paper, I think we can get that deadline out in a year. To mention the most important newspapers, of course, that remained from the first reading. These are related to the modernisation of economic crimes. It is no secret that in the new Criminal Code, economic crimes no longer correspond to the moment in which we are located, no longer corresponds to economic phenomena, to all that is happening on the market, and therefore to these new criminal acts prescribed here I think we will be able to sanction those phenomena that are happening today on the market. This primarily refers to violations of the rights of creditors in economic business and abuse of bankruptcy or bankruptcy. Because it's not a newspaper, we know that a lot of entrepreneurs are acting on the market so that they start a company, do certain jobs, get into dubiosis, get into debt, then the company is left inactive, the company is founded, employees and assets and claims are transferred to it, and this is actually just vegetating somewhere on the market, and there's basically nothing from it. We sanction these behaviors with these new criminal acts. The law, of course, is much better nomotechnically laid down because it has a lot more heads, has a better schedule of crimes themselves, and there we have introduced this meaning of a new head of criminal acts against labour and social security in which we have incriminate salary default, non-payment of contributions, and that sentence of prison for up to 3 years is punished by one who does not pay a share or a full salary of one or more workers. And it's also incriminating the abuse of labour that the sentence is intended for, a prison sentence of up to 2 years, with the fact that we're looking for certain consequences here to see this causal link between abuse and someone who actually suffers the consequences of it. It is important and important to reform gender delicacies that has accepted a modern concept of rape proposed by this Final Proposal of the Criminal Law and in the new concept no longer requires coercion such as this so far, it is enough that there is no consent. In a special chapter, acts against sexual abuse and exploitation of children who are in line with the relevant Council of Europe Convention have also been punished. A reform of crimes against honor and reputation has also been carried out, a new crime of shame has been imposed, while slander is limited only to the conscious and deliberate carrying out of falsehoods. We think we're much more precise here with this new criminal act of disgrace than it has ever been with two crimes of insult and slander. So the definitions are much more precise. As for the crime of drug abuse, as set out in most foreign legislation in two articles, we have separated the unauthorized possession, production and trafficking of drugs and substances banned this time means in sport, and we have expanded this by enabling the use of drugs and substances prohibited in sport. But it is proposed to punish the giving and selling of drugs to children or to use children for its sale, while the possession of drugs for personal use has been detained in the Penal Code in order to act more preventively on future potential drug users. As I said, the systematization of the law has been improved. The current one has 27 heads, while this one is 35. There has been introduced a whole series of new criminal offences that exist in other legislations, while some of the existing ones have been singled out in separate heads for crimes against computer systems. This is something that clearly corresponds to the moment we are in and the development of technology because we see in fact that as far as computer systems really are concerned in all segments of society, we can say that the entire infrastructure rests on them and there are possible various abuses and therefore we felt that it was good to separate it into a separate head. A significant reform of penalties is also proposed. The fine is individualized to the unsub. The notion of average daily income is abandoned and the fine is imposed in the daily amounts of the person to whom the daily amount is calculated taking into account both the perpetrators' incomes and the necessary costs and is charged, which is also the novelty forced through the Tax Administration, and now the fine is changed immediately in prison, thus denying its meaning as a prison substitut. The final draft of the law proposes that if payment through the Tax Administration is not possible, its replacement for work for the general benefit, and if such work is not carried out only then the cash is changed to a prison sentence and, of course, it is prescribed that short-term closures can only be made exceptional and must be further explained and that if a conditional sentence can not be imposed or that the fine or work for general good cannot be expected to be carried out. The highest maximum maximum length of prison sentences from the current 40 to 50 years that can be pronounced for the most serious crimes in the gain if the sum of individual sentences is over 50 years. We also propose greater application of alternative sanctions and extend the application of work for the common good. Now a prison under the current law for up to 6 months can be replaced by a general good until the new Penal Code, so the application of this institute would extend to prison sentences by one year. That's all I'm saying from the impact on the release of the prison system, but according to us, better application and better effect on resociation. The proposed reforms are also outdated, and in the light of the example of most foreign legislation, we leave the distinction of absolute and relatively obsolete and unique deadlines are introduced which are longer than relative and shorter than absolute ones. This abolishs the break-up, and that's where we get those problems about calculating the statutes of limitations. But we have a newspaper. This means that if the proceedings were to take place at that stage of the appeal procedure, we have a two-year limitation to avoid a statute of limitations. We're putting in place a new crime of road traffic suspension. And here in the second reading we are also more precise in the definition and in this criminal act we incriminate, punish when there are no consequences. So when someone's driving in the wrong direction, when they're going over 50 kilometers from the allowed speed, when they're driving under the influence of alcohol over 1.5 proms under the influence of drugs, when they're passing a column in an untransparent place. So these are some extreme forms and ways of driving past those allowed where we want to say preventively that regardless of whether or not it will cause any accident that only such behaviour is a criminal offence and in this way we want to act preventively. As far as domestic violence is concerned, it becomes a qualified form in certain criminal acts such as serious murder, in the case of crimes against sexual freedom, in the case of serious physical injury if committed in the family. So then it's a qualified form. And for certain crimes, more penalties are prescribed if they are committed out of hatred or against a child. More serious penalties for the criminal offence are also proposed. Now it's up to three years in prison. Under this law that we propose, it will be up to five years. Heavy theft is now up to five years, and according to this one we've been proposing, it's eight years. We also have a new criminal act of intrusive behaviour, in the case of the comparative member states of the European Union. So, here's a whole series of news in the new Penal Code that we think suits the moment we're in, that we implement all the directives, conventions, all those international and legal documents, and we think that this law will give Croatia one modern Penal Code. Even if we say we've already implemented it, we've implemented a reform of the criminal procedural law. So we have a faster process in criminal law, and with this new materiality, we would complete a full reform of the Penal Code. Here I thank all the committees, all of you because there were really valuable proposals that we put in place after the first reading in this final proposal. I can immediately say that we accept the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Thank you to the Legislative Committee because we have improved with these amendments in a nomotechnical sense anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80163	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80164	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament is at 137. The session held on 11 October 2011 discussed the final proposal of the Penal Code submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 6. October 2011 The Committee supports the adoption of this law and submits the following amendments to the text of the final proposal. It is therefore the first to read Article 381 and reads as follows: "Article 381. Paragraph 1 of the first sentence: "Article 84, Article 86 which ceases to apply by adopting a special law shall be replaced by the words "Articles 84, 85 and 86 which cease to apply on the date of entry into force of a special law governing the issues concerned." The second amendment is to Article 382 and it reads: "Article 382. words: " within 6 months of the adoption of this law" are deleted. The third amendment was also submitted to Article 383. For example, in Article 383 of the Treaty on European In the opening sentence, the word "to" should be replaced by the words "in 30 days of the day". The reasons for all three amendments submitted are that the legal and nomotechnical amendment is made, as the timing of the adoption of the law is not legally relevant but rather its entry into force. And in that sense, legal acts are not possible until this Law enters into force because it is essentially a legal basis for taking such actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80165	Thank you. Do they want to move on? Mr. Boris Kunst, president of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. Here you go, on behalf of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80166	Dear President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At its 61st session held on 13 October this year, the Labour and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the final proposal for a Penal Code submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee also discussed that act in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as an interested working body. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative briefly explained the differences between the bill's proposal and the final proposal for the Penal Code, in particular the Committee's reference to crimes against labour relations and social security. The debate expressed different views on the proposed solutions for crimes against labour, in particular Article 132, which is a non-payment of salaries. The opinion, in particular the representatives of the trade union, under which the proposed solutions referred to in Articles 132(3) and 4 are not acceptable, which relate to the grounds for excluding the employer's illegality in the case of non-payment of salaries and the cultural exemption from penalties if the employer pays the late salaries, etc. Case of effective remorse. Furthermore, an opinion under which criminal responsibility should also be prescribed in Article 129 for the denial or restriction of the right to act as trade unions. The opinion under which criminal responsibility should be prescribed for an employer who does not initiate bankruptcy proceedings in accordance with specific rules has also been expressed. Part of the Committee considers that labour abuse, Article 133, should be regulated in full and in particular by law. In the debate, the applicant's representative explained why it is necessary from one year to adapt, i.e. to meet citizens and judicial authorities to the new Penal Code, and then to clarify the provisions relating to the strike, the payment of contributions to the employment of persons with disabilities and unconscious treatment. An opinion has been given that the position of craftsmen is significantly more difficult in the event of non-payment of wages, since they correspond to the entire assets. And after the debate, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80167	Does he? Yeah. On behalf of the Justice Committee, Mrs. Anna Lovrin, chairman of the board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80168	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee for the Justice of the Croatian Parliament at the 70th session held on 11 October 2011 discussed the Final Proposal for a Penal Code submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 6 October 2011. The Committee discussed the draft law in accordance with Article 73. Rules of Procedure in the capacity of the home working body. In the opening statement, the representatives of the proposer explained in detail the differences between the solutions contained in the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law. They further explained the proposals and opinions which the applicant did not adopt, so the most important differences are contained in the following: Article 3 which provides for the principle of application of the soft law and the time-limit of the Penal Code, the limitation period for the most serious criminal offences, the non-payment of contributions is treated as well as the non-payment of salaries, clearly restricts the responsibility of journalists for shame, new offences of abuse of privileged information and abuse of capital markets have been added, a separate article on the instruments of harmonisation of the law of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the European Union is proposed, a shorter period of entry into force of the law. The observations not adopted by the legislator are contained in the following: no proposal for a life sentence has been adopted, no proposal for a qualified form of murder of a person for the purpose of trafficking in parts of the body has been adopted, and the possibility of confiscation of the case being committed because the court may withdraw the subject of initiation in accordance with Article 79(1). In the debate, the members of the Committee unanimously supported the Final Proposal of the Penal Code, expressing satisfaction that the applicant adopted the comments of the Court of Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament, which specified the principle of the application of the soft law and the time-limits of criminal law and extended limitation deadlines for the most serious offences. The Committee’s view is that the provision of Article 5 which regulates the principle of confiscation of property benefit in such a way that no one can retain the property benefit achieved by an illegal action should strengthen a general provision that no one can retain any benefit or benefit, given that any other benefit, not only property, can be derived from the conduct of criminal offences. The opinion is that the provision of Article 82(3), which lists the offences committed to the harm of children, for which antiquity of prosecution begins to run from the age of the victim, should be reconsidered because, for example, when committing certain offences. The murder of a child's adulthood will never occur, so that provision as such is actually unnecessary and superfluous. The opinion of the Committee is that, by adopting this law, the Proposer should propose the adoption of the Criminal Record Act as quickly as possible. After the debate was held, the Justice Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the Penal Code be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80169	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the SDP club Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. She's gone. The club loses the right to debate, whatever that means. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Madam Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80170	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a large law of around 380 and some articles, so one of the central and main laws of each state, which is the Penal Code, because it is a law which is a very political law, namely it shows to its provisions that social values protect, how important they are, in which way it protects them, because it also adequately prescribes sanctions for the violation of these social values. How in the Republic of Croatia the existing Penal Code, which was passed in 1997, has been changed 12 times, so for the purity of the legal text, it was of course necessary to change it completely. But because of these partial changes, each time was estimated to be particularly important for us to protect a particular segment of social values. Of course, then it's harder to see the law as a whole. There have been discrepancies and imbalances of the sanctioned sanctions in view of the severity of the infringements and the importance of the value of the protected social goods. As a result, a whole new Penal Code was joined in 2009 to outline a consistent criminal-law policy through the new structure of the entire law, the modernisation of the description of the beings of individual criminal offences and the balance of prescribed sanctions. It has also been brought into line with international documents, namely UN documents, EU acquis, Council of Europe conventions and the legal standards for the protection of human rights of the European Court of Human Rights. This law has also been harmonised with all new laws adopted by the Republic of Croatia, in the meantime, mainly with the CAP, special criminal legislation and the Law on Violations. Nomotechnically improved the systematization of provisions and the names of individual heads, the schedule of individual heads, the distribution of certain articles, or provisions between the chapters of the Penal Code. And here, in that sense, this penal code with 27 heads of the existing law, this one has 35. The law introduces some brand new crimes in view of the change in the way it attacks protected non-social values due to changes in technology, means of communication, raised standards of human rights protection. Here, which has, of course, led to new forms of damage to these values, which have not been described in the beings of criminal acts under the current law. The victim's criminal and legal position has been improved, in particular with regard to damages caused by the criminal offence and the introduction of specific measures under the probationary system which will aim to protect the victim. The effectiveness of the criminal sanctions system has also been improved. So, as far as the general part is concerned, it seems to me one of, I'm going to say a few significant changes, that is, above all, these fundamental changes in terms of penalties. In fact, we are all aware and we have often heard reports here about the existing situation and not only in the Republic of Croatia but also beyond Europe and the world about overcrowding of prisons that are almost up to 50%. Also in mind that over one third of all sanctions are prison sentences for up to 6 months, therefore, short-term prison sentences, and that the number of fine cuts, i.e. their replacement for a short-term prison, has not often been executed due to overcrowding. So, that there was a huge percentage, about 70% of the provisional convictions, which were pronounced without any obligation other than that their impeachment was prevented if the crime was repeated. Therefore, the new Penal Code prescribes fines – fines, prison and long-term imprisonment. A court notice has dropped, and in the new one, the work for the general good has now been set as a substitute for prison sentences and fines. It's important news that the lower and upper limits of the prison are increased. According to the current law, the prison sentence was 30 days to 15 years, and the long-term prison from 20 to 40. The new KZ as the lowest limit of prison sentences introduces 3 months to 20 years, so the upper limit has been increased, sanctions have been tightened against prison sentences, and long-term prisons have been introduced from 21 to 40 years and in the most difficult cases of heavy crimes up to 50 years. This makes it practically impossible for the freedom of the most radical perpetrators of serious crimes i.e. in those who are not actually able to resociate. This law introduces the exceptionalness of short-term prison. In fact, a prison of up to six months can only be declared if the assessment is, therefore, one coherent norm which requires the court to assess in any case. Therefore, when the court assesses, which means that it will have to explain this assessment that the fine or penalty of work, i.e. the replacement of work for the common good, will not be able to be executed or that those penalties, i.e. by replacing the fine for the general good, will not be achieved for the purpose of punishment. The possibility of replacing prisons with work for the common good is also expanded. So far, it has been a prison for up to 6 months, now it can be replaced when a prison sentence has been imposed for up to 1 year, so that in the event of a short term sentence being imposed up to 6 months, it has to be replaced by a general good, and it can only be avoided in the case, so it can not be applied only if there is no consent of the convicts or an assessment that it is not, the purpose of the sentence would not be achieved. It's also a strict provision on conditional conviction, so it's individualized now, it's being implemented through the sampling system. It can only be said when the sentence is up to a year in prison, and it must be stated with it, and some obligation that the convict is obliged to work during the stay of the sentence. And there are a number of measures available, from repairing damages, payments for humanitarian purposes, compulsory education, employment obligations, treatment, supervised income availability, psychosocial therapy, especially in the case of violence, etc. A significant change has also been introduced in parole. I'm keeping this very important. It may have gone unnoticed, which is that parole is now decided by the court. That's only logical because by granting parole, it's essentially incurring a change of sentence. So far, we've had situations that, in fact, the sentencing sentence could have changed by firing on parole, in fact, by an administrative measure of the prison commission. The exception was equally abolished, so now parole can be granted only after half the sentence has been executed. There are no more exceptions than one-third of the suspended sentence. In part of the security measures, the provisions of existing security measures have been improved but new security measures have been introduced and this is a mandatory psychosocial treatment as I have said especially in cases of violence. The ban on visiting certain places and persons, away from the common household, therefore some of the measures that we have in the law of violation, but we did not have them in criminal, protective surveillance after the full execution of the sentence, especially in the case of gender delicacies against children and the ban on access to the Internet. They are also a significant newspaper in fines, I would say that this is a thorough reform of the penalty system, so the fine is pronounced and determined in the daily amount but no longer according to the average amount of daily income but individualised to each perpetrator. Namely, the purpose of applying and giving sentences by the court is to individualise it according to the person and the action, and the way in which it is committed and the general circumstances. In this case, each time the court will assess the material incomes and assets of the perpetrators and, therefore, determine the daily amount of fines in the case where the exact determination of this is made with great difficulties, the court shall do so according to its assessment, so the amount of daily penalties may be, today are legal limits from 20 to 10 thousand kuna and may be determined at least 30 and up to 360 daily amounts, except for offences of benefit when it must be up to 500 daily amounts and this must be explicitly established in the Law. It is also possible to impose a fine as a substitute sentence for prison, for when a sentence of up to 3 years is prescribed, and one change since the first reading because it was an objection in the debate, which is that the fine is forced to be charged before the replacement, is forced to be charged through the tax administration unless it is succeeded in replacing it with the work for the general good and in such a way that one daily amount is replaced for 4 hours of work for the general benefit, in the first reading it was 2 hours, so we objected that it is disproportionate because one daily amount is replaced with one day in prison and then it is appropriate to at least replace it for half of the working time. The second significant change is in relation to the Institute of Obsolescence, therefore, leaving the current distinction of relative and absolute limitation, the single limitation period in accordance with European practice with the exception, and we are assessing the excellent extensions of this limitation period if, in the extension of the limitation period, a first-degree ruling is made, in that case, the limitation period may be extended by two years in order to allow for the possibility to complete the criminal proceedings and it is also clearly established that the limitation cannot take place during the time of enforcement of the criminal sanctions, so that, for example, someone is released from prison because his sentence has been brought to an end. So, starting by executing the limitation period is interrupted. The limitation deadlines were generally increased, which is also an observation from the debate because since the absolute deadlines in the existing law were double the relative, the applicant found one good balance with this final proposal that approximately 2/3 of the absolute limitation period established the general limitation period. We also consider it extremely good that the principle of confiscation benefits acquired by illegal action, this bill raises to the level of principle. Therefore, it is clear in principle in the first articles which determine the principles of criminal law that crime is not worth it. What is subject to discussion is that at the level of the principle it determines that no one can retain the property benefit acquired by an illegal action at this level of principle I think it would be better to say that no one can retain the benefit acquired by the illegal action but here we have in the head of the 6th hearing of confiscation and benefit that knows the difference between the benefits of the acquired so-called. the ordinary criminal act, and that criminal act from the jurisdiction of the USKOK, so these are the most severe forms of corruption and organised crime where so-called crime has been applied. an extended confiscation of property benefit to all assets acquired in 10 years which cannot be made likely to have been obtained legally. And I'm running out of time I haven't come to a special part, so in a single debate, thank you very much, for all of these reasons and for those we're going to bring up by the HDZ Club later, I'm going to support this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80171	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80172	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, this penalty law for non-payment of wages is prescribed by a criminal offence, and for the first time, the penalty prescribed for it is only a prison sentence. A three-year sentence should be sufficient to warn all those employers who calculate between payouts to workers and illegal wealth. This penalty does not apply to employers who, for justifiable reasons, come into a situation that they cannot do business or pay workers. Where there has been a failure to pay the salary to be made available to the employer's financial resources, or a lack of financial resources that have not been incurred with the aim of avoiding pay and where the employer subsequently pays the remaining salaries then criminal responsibilities can be released. The current criminal law prescribes fines for those employers who deny earning workers fines or prison sentences for up to one year. The proposed law no longer foresees the possibility of fines but is tightening the sentence by prison only by up to three years. Non-payment of salaries for many years in Croatia is a significant problem, and this phenomenon should be completely eradicated in Croatia and in this three-year prison for the employer, I doubt that any employer will come up with the abuse of money intended for the salaries of workers for the purpose of obtaining property or any other benefit. First, we have to pay the worker and not endanger his existence, and then what remains to be deployed in the interests of the company and the employer. I'm going to visit a frequent exchange of incorrect data on the number of workers who work, and they don't receive salaries from employers. The figures were used depending on the daily political need of 85,000 so some even calculated with 150,000, that today in Croatia there are workers who do not receive salaries and work. The recent analysis presented by the Economic and Social Council of the Government and the Association of Employers and trade unions means that all social partners have shown the real situation in this area of work and wages. In Croatia, I will remind the businesses of 131 thousand 77 employers, which means legally 77 thousand 878 persons, and which physically 53 thousand 199 people and all of them employ with the end of August somewhere over a million 424 thousand and exactly 38 workers, which in the case of legal persons is a million 158 thousand 881, and which in crafts, agriculture, etc. The weighted number of employers means around 94%, and I think that the percentage has been slightly higher lately, through the year, paying salaries, taxes and contributions to its workers. I think that we can also be satisfied with the positive trend of reducing the number of workers who are not paid in time. During the year, part of employers pay net wages and compulsory taxes and contributions are paid irregularly for about 70 to 110 thousand workers, and part of the workers is paid by a delay of a few months, and that is the day that this first presentation was on the Economic and Social Council that figure was somewhere around 18 thousand workers. And why I said that we must be satisfied with the positive trend, this trend has now fallen to 13,000 workers, so according to a recent recent survey a few days ago that was publicly announced, so the number of workers in Croatia who work and do not receive wages, for example, regularly. They receive late and it's 13,000 workers or 1.3% employees. The reasons for the irregularity of payouts are the most often inequitable but also the irresponsibility of employers who manipulate existing regulations. And normally those should be punished, so that calculates whether with that money whether to pay the wages or something. Whether it is for the public and for all those who abuse and play with these numbers, it is important to stress that there are neither 80,000 nor 100, as this is the most common opposition known by the SDP to be brought here by the workers, and they do not receive the salary, because the figure is significantly lower and that is, in fact, what is certainly positive, and that should be emphasized. And that trend has fallen drastically from a time when we remember when there really were over 100,000 workers who worked and didn't receive pay in time. Normally, this tightening of the three-year sentence for non-payment of salaries will solve the dilemma whether to pay the worker or buy that money into some real estate, yacht or don’t know what, which would be useful to him, and ultimately what would be to the harm of the workers. However, it would be good if the issue of payment of salaries and contributions were paid except for work contracts closer to the office and collective agreement. And normally there should be a great responsibility and a great commitment of the union to insist that the collective agreement also means additionally in the negotiation of certain social and labour rights for employees, except as I say this to the Penal Code determines both the effective responsibility and control of the employer in the payment of such salary. All in all, we must also point out that this is for rustling that we are, in some ways, the only country in the environment that has a fine prescribed for employers in the event of non-payment of wages. Germany has this to pay off contributions, has I think Texas in America also has the Penal Code prescribed no pay, but we're saying one of the few states sure that the Penal Code prescribed it. And I believe that even the effects are already seen as being able to slowly eradicate this evil pay default, so it's inappropriate and it's not normal for someone to work and not receive a salary. And normally, if there is an unwarranted reason then such employers should be punished drastically. And once again, I would like to commend that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has suggested that it be entered into the Penal Code. And by doing so, as I said, we are one of the few states that punishes those employers who are unconsciously, inappropriately and irresponsiblely behave and do not pay salaries to the workers who have earned that salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80173	Thank you. We have replicas. First is Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Kunst, you were talking about the reasons for the payout, I'm glad this law finally came to the Parliament because this is a civilization issue. Paying off wages and paying off what someone earned by their work, investing himself and his knowledge to produce wealth for someone without being paid for it. Finally, someone's responsible for that. We needed this a long time ago. But it's not just my colleague Kunst's reasons that you said, "indesponsibility or lack of finance and intent." It should be made clear that there is an intention, that many have become rich in sucking out money from their own companies at the expense of workers and their salaries. They remained in debt for a year, two years, three defaults, while at the same time financial engineering, consulting services abroad, or their related companies sucked out money. They borrowed money from their related companies, bought real estate, bought movables, borrowed related companies and natural persons, bought official cars. So it turns out that every company that has two employees and works exclusively in a four-square office has to have five official cars, and it can't pay off a worker. It's unnatural. But the union didn't get involved properly, the union even illegally supports such as the Royal Pension Insurance, which is illegal. It is not within any law, and it even carries original Croatian as if it were a produced carrot in Scabrnja or pepper in Filip Jacob. And he's acting against the law and buying out the Royal Pension Insurance pensions, and no one can handle it. This law I hope will end it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80175	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80176	Thank you very much. It is my colleague Maric that we are on the same track, and it is in principle that all those irresponsible employers who for their benefit are taking the money they should pay the workers for their salary to finally be punished. And that's why I said and I reiterated that we are one of the few states in the environment that has entered into the Penal Code the punishment of employers for non-payment of salaries. But that payout is unfortunately not a problem that has been going through in recent years, it has been going on for a very, very long time in Croatia. And I'm sorry, and I have to say, and then the unions warned, and I was the union president back then, when the SDP with the coalition was in power, and then we were looking for solutions to how to solve the problem and how to punish, sanction and employers who didn't pay their wages. And I have to say, except for today's indicators where it shows that there's about 13,000 workers out there who don't get paid in time, then there were some of them I'd say maybe 10 times more. But no matter how full of mouths my colleagues were who are not presently present in the Assembly because they are not interested in the Penal Code or in the problems of workers, in paying salaries, and they did not have a hearing at that time. And yet we must say that this is what this government has proposed and this government is in principle as I have suggested that this punishment be entered into the Penal Code for the employer if he does not pay the worker's salary for his work. And they didn't, and that problem was quite agreeable at the time when they were in power, and today they're gone, so I don't say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80177	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Kunst, you've told and pointed to numerical data, that there is a significant decline in the number of non-paying workers. I am very glad that, and in the end, it is probably the result of the efforts of those who sit and work, systematically taking measures, and also in the context of economic recovery measures, but also in the context of what we have been talking about for a long time, we talk, we warn, and if you want to publicate people who do not pay a worker a salary as a moral bottom, and buy a yacht or a car. But that number from what you've said is awfully large, and it's a large figure for every single man if he doesn't get paid, and so by this new Penal Code, we've really squandered this crime in a way that courts and apply it. I repeat, and so far, the Penal Code has had in Article 114 a provision that could prosecute non-payment of salaries, but the case law allegedly in the description of the beings of this crime did not always recognise, so we have a very small number of judicial rulings in relation to this. However, I believe in this new manipulation that even through the criminal responsibility of such an employer, every worker will be able to come, and in particular I think that the establishment of a new criminal court in the City of Zagreb as the highest court, and then through the judicial departments of labour law, the pardon of the new working court, and through the judicial departments of labour law, these judges will have far more knowledge and understanding of this specific matter, and in this sense workers will be better protected. Let's not forget to mention that the new Penal Code introduces a brand-new crime in the event of a violation of the right to work, which is through the protection of whistles, so everyone...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80180	Who lets someone point to cases of corruption and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80181	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80182	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Lovrin, you have well noticed that this number that has fallen, the number of workers to 13000 who, unfortunately, are getting paid irregularly today, and I say has fallen drastically in relation to the number that was earlier, that it is certainly a good work and continuity of working with social partners and unions and employers where the government has had good relations, correct and where it has insisted that such employers are simply and among themselves called by the Association of Employers and see why it does not pay workers a regular salary. And once again I want to point out that there is now the opposition they would immediately say we proposed in the Penal Code that non-payment of wages be declared a criminal offense for the employer. Yes, but when, when you were an opposition, and while you were in power, you didn't suggest it because then responsibility should be taken over, then it should be introduced into the law. So it can't, it's easier when you're in opposition to suggest something, and you've been in power, and the problem was far bigger than you were today. And there is one more thing that needs to be pointed out, and it is very important, especially for the workers who seek their rights through courts and resolve them, that this government has finally passed a law to introduce working courts in Croatia who will specialisedly judge and solve labour and social problems for workers who, unfortunately, have had to wait long enough until their problems are resolved in regular courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80183	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, please welcome Mr Miodrag Marinović, president of the International Friendship Group of Croatia and Chile at the National Congress of the Republic of Chile. Thank you. And we have another replica, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Kunst, in the sense of this replica of mine, I absolutely support everything you've said in terms of the need for incrimination, prescribing non-payment of wages as a criminal offense. You've also supported this data, pointing to this unequivocal big social problem. However, it may be necessary to further point out that right now, in this final draft of the law, this in some sense will be extended in terms of contribution. In my opinion, it is even more criminal or someone who even has elements and fraud, and we can hear or read it from the media often times when wages are paid to a worker or that unfortunate minimumer, without paying taxes and contributions, or contributes particularly to pension and health insurance, and workers find out about that fact for months later. So, just the provision of this law or paragraph four now in this final bill of law where this incrimination is or will be a criminal offence and in this sense extends my opinion that it is necessary to further highlight and warn employers about that fact. Because it only pays the payer for work and the payment of contributions for pension and disability insurance is what the worker belongs to for his work. Or that all forms of abuse are also in a way to pay salaries, but no pension and health insurance is paid additionally, therefore the form of criminal conduct which should also be sanctioned in that sense. And since I've replicated to you, of course, that this problem cannot be solved solely by criminal material law, repression, prosecution and punishment of the perpetrators of criminal acts. It is a wider problem, but also in this sense I support this change when it comes to incrimination with respect to employers, so only those situations will be incriminate in case it is evident and clearly that it has occurred by abuse of the employer to this situation that we call non-payment of wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80185	Thank you. Answer Mr. Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80186	Thank you very much, fellow Tomljanović. In any case, you have well noticed that besides pay, there are clearly taxes and contributions that some employers unfortunately do not pay in time. They pay the salary, the net pay the worker. But they're late to pay those contributions and taxes. And unfortunately, I said there are about 70,000 of them in Croatia. That's one problem. But we can tell the worker there is not currently suspended but it is certainly suspended for these taxes and contributions, although many employers pay later or in agreement with the Tax Administration somehow resolve it. But now he'll have to deal with it on time. Surely it is also important to stress, clearly we cannot solve everything by law alone, and not all these problems will be dealt with by law. But they will be able to get rid of one quality cooperation through the tripartite social body of social partners. And I have to say that many employers have already come to terms with the earlier period and they solve many problems with each other with those employers who don't pay in time for pay workers and that it's simply impossible for them to actually exist workers who work and don't receive wages I say if they're not justified reasons. And I can say that the only positive thing is that according to the research, there was no indication that these employers were alienating these funds for something other than paying their salaries to the workers. I've been talking lately, and that's what's positive. But it's also to emphasize another one. This government has really taken care of these social rights of workers. She's never derivated any social rights to workers. While the SDP government first when it came to power, it stripped 30 to 40% of the workers' salaries, so it cut the drastic labour law, severances, cancellations, etc., it disrespected the agreed rights of collective agreements, etc. That didn't happen in this term. And that's what's positive and that's why there's still one more thing to point out. And that government threw the workers out of the first payment order in the bankruptcy bill into the second payment order, so that many workers unfortunately failed, we're talking now and just before, we're something about these poor workers walking the streets yesterday. But these workers when they were transferred to another payment order, unfortunately they never managed to collect their severances, their own rights because... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80187	Thank you. It's Mrs. Romana Jerkovic's turn that she doesn't have. Then Mr. Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80188	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the final proposal of the Penal Code, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent for a second reading. Before I refer to the differences proposed by the final draft law, I would like to stress that material criminal law is a demanding and complex area of regulation, that the drafting of this law was attended by prominent experts from the academic community, judicial authorities, the State Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Interior, the Bar and the Ministry of Justice. That numerous, professional gatherings and public debates were held. Guidelines for drawing up a new December 2009 Penal Code In the years, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has identified fundamental issues of the law. The harmonisation of laws with international documents, compliance with other regulations of the Republic of Croatia, the modernisation of the general and special part of the Criminal Code, the removal of legal contradictions and non-compliance, the improvement of the criminal and legal situation of the victim, the improvement of criminal sanctions systems, changes in the specific part by reviewing existing incriminations, the introduction of new incriminations and the modernisation of certain criminal offences. The differences proposed by the Final Proposal of Criminal Law were due to respect for the proposals and opinions of both the working bodies and the plenary sessions. It should also be pointed out that the applicant has shown himself in the light of all those remarks and proposals that he could not respect. In view of the fact that it is not possible to touch all differences, I would refer to some who, in my opinion, fall into the category of more important and not possible to highlight them. More important differences are reflected in the following, the principle of application of soft law and the time-limiting of criminal law is clearly regulated, the principle of confiscation of property benefit is introduced, the provisions relating to work for the general good, conditional judgment, protective supervision, compulsory psychiatric treatment, compulsory treatment of addiction, the possibility of public publication of judgments on the request of a freed person have been added, the limitation deadlines for the most serious criminal offences have been extended. The applicant has opted for equal treatment of non-payment of salaries and non-payments in such a way that they are prevented by the same sanction. The applicant clearly limited the liability for the crime of disgrace, in such a way that it never corresponds if the factual claim which is true and which the transporter believes in good faith is true, conveys in the public interest or in any other justified interest, and if there is no such interest, then it will only be held responsible if such a factual claim is passed on with the aim of harming one's reputation and honor. Obsessive road traffic driving that is hard to break safety rules, are sanctioned by a prison sentence of up to 3 years. New offences have been added to abuse of privileged information and misuse of the capital market. A new article has been added to provide for the harmonisation of this law and the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union. A shorter deadline for entry into force of the new law has been proposed. Given the fact that the final proposal of the Penal Code contains improved improvements in criminal material law and is in line with international regulations and legal property of the European Union, I will personally support the adoption of the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80189	Thank you. We have one replica, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80190	Thank you very much. Well, you mentioned your colleague Grbić's new crime of hanging driving. I think it's great that it's been installed in the new Penal Code. The only thing we need to think about here is that I would also warn the Proposer to control the provisions of the Criminal Code, because they are almost identical provisions in the Criminal Code, so it could happen because of the famous verdict... The European Court of Justice remains in fact unpunished, not held liable and punished for having already been punished, therefore this should be settled. [[You don't understand.]] But what is also extremely good, and that the crime of driving an obscenities is considered a criminal offence, even when it did not cause a result, for the reason that it was significantly endangered or significantly endangered general security. We have proposed, that is, in the debate, that is, that I personally suggested that the confiscation of the case which committed the crime of a code, precisely in cases like this, where we have recitals that people without a driver's license drive too fast, 70 kilometers more than the permitted speed, etc., while endangering lives, cause the consequences of death, and yet repeat it because the means of committing them are not taken away, we have suggested that it be in this criminal act, however, the promoter has said so too, but I encourage the courts to apply in practice, and this is the general provision of the general part that the means of committing a criminal offence can always be taken away, if this would be put at risk of general security or reprimanding criminal acts, so I accept, the promoters well pointed out the provision of the general part of the criminal law, but the courts should apply it more frequently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80191	Answer, Mr. Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80192	Thank you very much, colleague Lovrin, what you've noticed and what I've pointed out to me, what was very interesting to me in this new Penal Code. There are a number of other things, let's just say, it's interesting to me, in addition to what we've pointed out, and it's not like so far at least, although few of us have said so far, I find it interesting the same reform of the fines where the fine is individualized and it's possible that, if it's not paid, it doesn't go straight to prison, because it's losing the meaning of the fine itself, it's already introducing a new system of payment penalties, which is through the tax administration. Only in case it is not possible to charge such a penalty through the tax administration is it going on again, if I can tell the other variant before the final one, and that's the prison sentence, and that's the possibility of working for the general good. So I would like to conclude this law with a series of newspapers, and that is exactly what I said at the beginning of a long-term profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80193	Thank you. It's the vice president, Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80194	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Justice Department. In my performance, I will say something about how and whether and to what extent certain provisions of the Penal Code, the new Penal Code, are referred to according to the basic principles of the Croatian Constitution, particularly in accordance with Article 35. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, I will quote this article: "Every one guarantees respect and legal protection for his personal and family life, dignity, reputation and honor." Whether the newly proposed provision of the Penal Code or the entire chapter of the Penal Code, which bears the title of criminal acts against honor and reputation, and in particular the introduction of a new criminal act of disgrace, whether it protects this fundamental right and freedom of man, is the right to dignity, the right to family life, respect for family life and the protection of reputation and honor as one of the fundamental rights and freedoms of man and citizen. One part, I stress one part, the media and in one part of these media, which are covered by one fever of profit acquisition or as speakers or agitators or propagandists of certain groups of interest groups or political interest groups have put as their top principle in that part of the media exactly the embarrassment of people, individuals from political and public life with the sole intention of delivering different stories, claims, with the sole and exclusive intention that these people... To shame themselves, to hurt their honor and reputation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On purpose, different claims are made, human fates are destroyed, no scruples exist, without any scruples taking care of how the carrying out of certain, as a rule of false, claims, structures, factories will reflect on the fates of individuals, their families, their women, children. They don't care about that, they care about profit, all they care about is how to sell a story and earn money on it or how to hurt from certain interests to a certain other group of people or individuals. And I therefore welcome the introduction of this crime in the form of the right of many European countries, the old democracies, the crime of disgrace where responsibility is prescribed in the first order of those journalists who do not adhere to nor the code of journalistic ethics and who write their whole with intent, with the sole intention of embarrassing, insulting and defaming other people only guided and guided by these interests. This is what we have in one part of the media or public life a handful of evidence where in this fever the race for profit or in that fever is racing to harm competition or some other political interests goes without the rest of the destruction of human, personal integrity, family integrity, and therefore I welcome this crime, the introduction of this crime of disgrace where it differs which is a criminal act of disgrace, which is defamation. I also welcome the re-emphasis and the introduction that the crime is every crime, any act that has been committed out of hatred. This is now in Article 87, paragraph 20, where it is specifically stated that a crime of hatred is every crime committed because of the different circumstances of an individual or a particular group. And such conduct will be taken as a severe circumstance, and it will also mean more severe punishment. And today we have these days and these months and weeks, and we have a lot of examples of people slandering themselves, of something that can harm their honor and reputation, and that is not true, with the sole intention of slandering themselves, of being offended by the motive of hatred for individuals and people and that hatred then, that hate speech is born and of concrete consequences, and there are also physical attacks and threats against individuals and other groups. And for this reason, I think that in this area of the Penal Code, they are perfectly prescribed and delimited and this criminal act of disgrace and defamation, because even the Penal Code must once end these attempts and the actual actions of one part, I will stress and repeat this, a part of certain media that crosses all possible borders and which are the only goal of embarrassing, slandering people and doing any kind of damage to them for their honor and reputation, not exceeding even the greatest abominations that are capable of passing through and bringing out, in particular, from family life where they are facing and young children, their integrity, family and those most vulnerable to violence against freedom and dignity and honor. So I welcome the adoption of this Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80195	Thank you. We're going to the replicas that signed up. First Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80196	Thank you very much. Well, I totally agree with my colleague, Shakespeare, that it's a good thing that this disgrace got into this Penal Code, but I think it's softened up like a camel. Because in principle, only fines are provided as well as the press campaign has eased the penalty for libel. Although in all Europe's defamation countries a prison sentence is foreseen in Croatia is not going to be. Obviously, the pressure of the European Federation of Journalists has had its effect. They asked to erase that prison sentence for libel because it is a threat to freedom of the media etc. Because they say that if a journalist has to prove the truthfulness of slander then the right to present ideas could be violated, and it could be concluded from such opinions that the kind of journalism that, for commercial or other reasons, deals with sensationalism is supported, and that sensationalism is most often brought about by slander, shame, insults that are the most common tools that some journalists use in their work. For every slander, insult, and disgrace he cannot prove, and there is no evidence to be answered because he has damaged others, he has inflicted invaluable damage on him both to his family and to his friends and to the fact of the whole environment of the one he has slandered. Those journalists who do their job fairly are not afraid of defamation or fear that the crime of slander is also a prison sentence, and those journalists who are dealing with it in this way with this sensationalism or this dirty way of journalism so that it may be called, they should be very afraid of it and unfortunately it is tempered and I fear that it is precisely under the pressure of this European Federation of journalists because it is a strong lobby that has put pressure on our ministry or government as we will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80197	Thank you. Answer, Vice President Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80198	Well, a journalist and his integrity and his work are protected if he acts in accordance with the code of journalistic ethics and standard standards. It is protected by the fact that there is no criminal act of disgrace if the perpetrator proves the truthfulness of the facts of the claims he made, carried out, and the existence of a serious reason why he believed in their truthfulness by acting in good faith. This crime is a disgrace to those who act with the aim of harming honor and reputation, who act with the aim of harming honor and reputation and only with that goal if they act and act accordingly cannot have the right to protect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80199	Thank you. It's 11 o'clock just now. It's 10 minutes into the hearing. Let's move on with the replicas. It's Mr. Goran Maric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80200	Thank you very much. You were talking about hate in one part of the media. One part of the media promotes hatred but hatred for the truth. And that's why we have two pictures in Croatian, the real one and the one that's trying to impose that part of the media. The media generally did a great deal in the progress of the social Republic of Croatia, they did so much good in Croatia, but one part of the media is trying to impose a lie on Croatia. Promoting a bad chokes well. One part of the media for the killer, who freely walks around town and kills an innocent man, says a prominent citizen, a respected entrepreneur for the third time in custody. Best manager in custody twice, as far as possible. He cheated on all the entrepreneurs, cheated on all the suppliers, didn't pay the salary, and a respected entrepreneur and a persistent one called. And we haven't heard that something happened in six major banks, there's no firing illegal, there's no harassment, there's no mobbing, there's everything perfect, there's idyllic. We've never read a single verse that doesn't work there. There's an idyllic environment, but that's the treasure you were talking about. But there should also be hope, there should be faith, because we know how Ivo Andric said, "As long as there is darkness, there will be dawn." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80201	Thank you. Answer, Vice President Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80202	I think this article 148. The penal law, the new one, not to endanger freedom of the media, freedom of journalism, but just to guarantee it, strengthens that freedom but freedom for the truth, not freedom for the lie and freedom for the libel. This article is therefore an additional guarantee to all journalists that they will be protected if they promote the truth and promote other values in civil society, and a reminder to those who promote other values or valuables, the right to lie, the right to slander and the right to shame. There is no right to shame, there is no right to lie, there is no right to slander, it can be no right and it must be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80203	Thank you. We have another replica, Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80204	Mr. Vice President, I would agree in everything with what you pointed out in your presentation, and it's good that this is arranged in the head of crimes against honor and reputation, and it's true that some journalists, some journalists or some newspapers really don't get over anything to make a sensation and make a profit, but I would say and link it to the crime of this new KZ 307, which is a violation of the secrecy of the procedure. Many shames would be excluded or would not have occurred against persons who are not involved in criminal proceedings at all but by the testimony of someone against whom an early stage of investigation is being conducted, therefore in proceedings based on the law of secret and for which punishment is prescribed for each of the three years in prison, who unauthorizedly discovers what he has learned in this procedure and I understand that it is difficult to find out who he has discovered because he is more participants. I also understand that according to the media law, it is clear that a journalist is not obliged to reveal the source of information and I respect that, but also in paragraph 2 of that article, it is said that this same prison will be punished for up to three years by anyone who, without the court's permission, publishes the course of the proceedings. We read daily the testimony of the suspects, the people in the early investigation procedure, where third people are mentioned by accident without any basis, and they are written about the facts. Likewise, all of us who know something about criminal law know that the defendant can't be charged with false testimony, so he can say what he wants and how he wants without any basis. And I'm just asking because it's incriminating under the existing Penal Code, and now it's also being smuggled even a little bit better, which is what the state and the state bodies are doing to protect the effectiveness of their criminal prosecution, because ultimately these publications can also obstruct criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80205	Thank you. It's Mr. Representative Goran Maric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, esteemed co-workers and colleagues. Reading this law made me feel double. I felt the satisfaction, but a little bit of something got to me in the back of it all, that satisfaction that wasn't a complete pleasure. And it would be a complete pleasure if we had brought it before. It would be a complete pleasure to accept, I have suggested several times in this assembly that there can be no company registered not to have at least one employee, and that in this law there is a criminal offence for those who have a company and have not hired one, that there are in this law and sanctions and that there are thousands of them. Imagine at the minimalate a graduated engineer, so the minimum by structure of the idea was designed for the lowest workplace and the most unqualified workplace, and she so many thousands registered with VSS with the greatest knowledge and experience on that lowest salary. But again, I say a little delay gives me that it is not a complete pleasure, but I am pleased that this law is finally coming, to see the light of day, to apply itself and to put an end to that already pretentious boast that prevails over Croatia and will stop, will fear, will no longer do what they have done. Because especially in the economy, that's what interests me most. The economy without criminal sanctions is like Christianity without hell, unimaginable. Now we finally have that. But I imagined when I read the law to make Croatia look like we brought it 15 years ago. That's how I easily concluded it wouldn't be the debt of a central state, it'd be zero kuna. But if I went into more careful analysis, I wouldn't be far from it. No one would dare if today's law that was on the table was in force to privatise and rehabilitate banks in the way it did, to privatise the largest and conversion of the largest Croatian bank that today has 90 billion kunas of property in such a way as not to get even into the state budget, to pay compensation for crime in Slavonska Banka 40 billion euros without anyone answering. That after this will never, ever break the contracts... The state paid 50 or 100 million euros or dollars in compensation without anyone answering, that the creditors, and I see here the protection of creditors is one of the most important things, the most deceived layer of people in Croatia over the past 20 years, that the workers have been disbursed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm going to talk to only one piece of the media, so many workers who didn't get paid for six months strike, walk, naked and bare in the rain, some of whom I went six or seven years ago carrying food and drink, and no one knows what the name of the director and owner of that company is, because that's what some media are saying. So we have the latest data, I'm trying not to know who the director is, who ruined that company. But most often they prove to be respectable. Never would a surplus after the introduction of a 7 billion kuna VAT would have ended up via private companies mostly abroad without anyone answering that law. They would never have dared to pay private banks' obligations to the London and Paris club, which had just expired two months ago without being held accountable. No one would have dared to pay a commission to convert a business bank into London to an 18m-euro company without anyone answering. Finally this law will regain consciousness, it is needed for the social hygiene that we must raise because in these 20 years it has fallen to low levels. No one would dare take a commission to consult in the privatisation of Dubrovnik and Split banks and sell the two banks at several times the price that the state sold. But no one could answer for it because there was no law like this. This also provides for criminal sanctions for those who do not protect other people's property interests. It's been so many years and since the return of property to the church, nothing has been realised. Just when the church chose a real estate that could be replaced because it had previously been to the insight it could seek, in the meantime there is no real estate, someone sold it. Because it protects the interests of the property interests of others. After this law, it won't be possible to sell and disappear overnight what someone chose in exchange, agreed to a replacement, which was taken away from him long ago. But by the way, it's usually a committee in common and it doesn't work, and I don't know what his role is and they don't meet at all. And it was those in the past system who were the biggest opponents of the church and the most shameless way of getting rich in the Republic, who now even bowed down, entered the prayer communities, paid themselves a net of 3 million kunas a year, and not enough wealth, wanted more, prayed to God that two and two would not be four. This law also provides for criminal sanctions for violation of the rights of the credentials for reasons of over-indebtedness or indifference. So what kind of responsibility does someone need to owe the company, and they know they can't pay back? And he knows, but he's doing it on purpose. When my colleague Lovrin was just talking about driving unconscious, I'm glad you brought it in, but in Austria and Germany the one who drives 240 he ends up on psychiatric surveillance and won't let him go. Well, it's not just disrespecting the law of driving 200 and 240, it's bordering on something else, it's real for analysis in Sparrow. So who are they who do it and who drive it? It's a thought-out killer who drives 250/hours. He doesn't control a motor vehicle on the road. In particular, I am pleased to introduce criminal sanctions for bribery in the bankruptcy and income proceedings because bankruptcy and bankruptcy are one of the favorite nests of criminals. What they've done in these 20 years is something terrible. Croatia should cry over what they have done, and for 10 years, 12 years the same bankruptcy managers, the same bankruptcy judges and did not move millimeters with... How is it possible that 12 years of bankruptcy proceedings and nothing has been done? [[You don't understand.]] Well, at least it's a moral duty to replace that bankruptcy manager if nothing else. But they're enjoying themselves, driving jeeps, driving an audience, driving a train for 20 years. Finally, that framework is being created to reevaluate them. Tax and customs evasion, thank God we have that, too, that it's a crime. I remember a few years ago, the customs office sent inspectors to INA to check for oil smuggling. Imagine, INA security guards chased customs officers with guns. If it had happened in America, the FBI would have surrounded and expelled with helicopters, they'd all be removed the same day, and we wouldn't have had it as if nothing had happened. And it is known that man cannot avoid only two things: death and pay taxes, and in Croatia business systems die, individuals die, and never pay taxes. That's why we're here where we are, but this law will help us not to be where we are but to be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80207	Thank you. Replic as in the story. First, Ms. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Marić, I agree with you when you speak of this law as a modern law, a law with which Croatia is sidetracked by many developed democracies and approaches the legislation of those countries that are often highlighted as an example, such as Austria or Switzerland. You've been talking about the different categories of this law, and I'd like to look back on one that's defined in Article 130 of this law, and it seems to me that this law could have been more precise and precise. It's a violation of freedom of faith. Today, we live in a society where Islamophobia and Christian phobia have indeed taken too much of a swing. This was also the case at the last OSCE conference where a resolution against Christian phobia was unanimously adopted. Therefore, I believe that here in this legislative proposal, although it does touch the breach of freedom of faith, it was nevertheless necessary to define certain provisions more precisely because the intolerance and discrimination of believers, members or Christian or other religions are primarily non-civilizational behavior. It must also be recognised at the highest levels, as recognised at the highest international level. And I believe that the equality of citizens in that segment must be unconditionally secured. We are witnesses today, and some of us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament that there are people who would take the crosses off their necks, who don't spare any bad words, although very offensive when they speak to us and I believe that this criminal law in that segment should still be a little more specific than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80209	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80210	My colleague Mariana, reading the book "Last Time" by Michael O'Brian, made everything clear to me in my life and to the question of Christianity. Is that it takes a lot of time for 900 pages to read, but if any book is worth reading it too. It says the writer, the main character, that the Catholic Church bleeds from thousands of wounds, struck both from the outside and from the inside. And it is undisputed that there are individual outbursts, that they run into a Catholic church, but yet I feel very free in Croatia as a Catholic, and I think that we are a democratic society that has reached a very high level when it comes to freedom of faith. And individual outbursts will always be and can't possibly be, but they are truly symbolic and individual and I think that regardless of every man, regardless of freedom of faith feels very comfortable. In all other matters, if you felt like freedom of faith, society would be perfect for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80211	Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maric, you have listed a number of things here, some may be a bit of a nigger than they are, but the Penal Code can't solve everything. There are other laws that need to lead to the fact that the Penal Code does not deal with it at all. I'm going to mention something here that many as an alibi want to put into some law and criminal and some other law, and that's payout and some other stuff. We have the I.D. Law. High Court of Commerce, I'm going to say it here in public and I've been talking about it for a long time, not 50 thousand companies that were founded before this law seduced in accordance with the new Court Register Act. So far, limited-responsibility societies have been mentioned only one founder. They could have been five or six, they didn't see each other anywhere, but their respective rights were regulated by some kind of social contract. Why the personal identification number, because when it starts to apply no one else in Croatia will be able to falsely accuse anyone of having something, and this is full of media every day. When it comes to targeting someone, then you publicly charge them, embarrass them, and nothing happens tomorrow when it turns out it's not true. However, the personal identification number will clearly show and expose those who today hold moral lessons in the Republic of Croatia to own several companies without being seen owning them. And the IRS is preventing the IRS from telling you who they are. And when you look at the liquidity in Croatia, over 70% of the blocked companies are just these companies that don't have any employees. To take advantage of one of these sly expressions, both the business partner and the state and the workers, and only with the same means of teaching to work at another company. If we have an instrument, and a personal identification number is that instrument, then let's use that instrument. There won't be so many crimes. The courts will be able to deal with a lot of things. And another thing about indifference. If two partners have an uncontested business event and if one reports the other, then the court should make a decision practically within 15 days that this one must charge him and then we will settle 70% of the outstanding bills. And in the end, it can't be someone saying that they make 6,000 kunas and they live like a lord, and no one gets into it. It's important to have a good PR agency, then from beggars you become a genius or from geniuses and rich people you become a beggar.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80213	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80214	I wasn't afraid of society in black or white, but I was just stating the facts, and each of you should conclude what color it was after the facts were brought forward. I present facts not of my own, but of social and easily verifiable facts. If the Republic of Croatia has rescheduled banks with 87.4 billion kuna and sold them for 5.3 billion, then it is a social fact that can be easily checked. And I'm not saying if it's black or white, it's the way we're doing it today. Was there any abuse of privileged information in Pliva? I don't know. But how is it possible that it wasn't if someone on privileged information earned 30 million kunas and one person. I'm just saying. And whether it's black or white, then of course to those who don't receive wages, who worked for them, it's all black and they can't save for the dark days because they're all days black. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80215	Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I would like to replicate to my dear colleague Maric in the part where he mentioned actually economic crime and, of course, I absolutely support it, to support all these proposed norms that sanction this economic crime. In particular, he praised the provision of Article 249. So the violation of religious rights in economic business. Indeed, a colleague, Maric, should absolutely be sanctioned and put in that area of criminal responsibility all those who, by establishing companies and operating in a company in situations where, therefore, they bring their company, or even sometimes deliberately, into such positions to avoid paying for their obligations that they can come up with for a wide variety of reasons. And then the exit from that position is looking for a way to establish other trading entities. Absolutely, this should be sanctioned in a way that does not allow for such illegal behaviour. However, I must also say that I agree with all those who say that these situations cannot only be resolved by criminal law. Criminal material legislation comes at the end of this whole story, so when there are reasonable doubts that someone has violated the Penal Code, there are reasonable doubts that someone has committed a crime. Another thing I want to say in terms of my replica. You mentioned those companies, those companies that, in a sense, operate on the market, and they don't have any employees. What do you do with such entities in this sense? Therefore, they do not have any employees, they do not have any employees, they do not actually have any property or substrates other than those of the underlying capital regulated by social contracts and which, under the Commercial Society Act, was necessary for these companies to be registered. So, ultimately, I absolutely support everything you've said in support of these provisions of the law in terms of sanctioning economic crime. Many things, most of them, especially as far as economic crime is concerned, will not and cannot be solved solely by applying the provisions of criminal material law. And there are a whole series of relationships in terms of the functioning of companies who, even after the adoption of this law, will remain unsolved in this area and will therefore be the basis for the various forms of behaviour that will certainly come under certain provisions of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80217	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80218	Thank you very much to my colleague Tomljanović. Of course the criminal sanction was last on... but it should always be analysed and the cause of the occurrence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What makes these tycoons, the con men, these dishonest entrepreneurs, but we must stress that most entrepreneurs in Croatia are fair. But what did they come out of? Well, those who invested their capital didn't cheat on anyone. But the one who got the fortune and gave zero kuna, didn't give anything to run the company, was his company if he hadn't paid for the stock. You've made a mess in Croatia. They need to be put to rest. And from such an unculture of entrepreneurship, of course, there is an unculture of behavior. He can't be an uncultured entrepreneur. He can't be rude. He can't be rude. And what consequences can there be? Only the losers. But otherwise, they're very pleasant in society, they're happy, they're best for society. And you know why? So far, the laws were such as to throw them, but they failed, and there is nothing more joyful for man than when they shoot him and they miss. That's why they enjoy it. But I don't think he's gonna do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80219	Mr. Representative Boris Kunst, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80220	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you touched on a problem I would say Croatian piranhaism which has existed in Croatia for a number of years, which is that part of Croatian entrepreneurs unfortunately exploits workers in a way that pays them or reports minimum wage, and some change or difference pays them under the table. And, of course, that's how they cheat on the state, but unfortunately, most of the worker. And I believe that, too, if we can eradicate it, because that's one terrible problem that hardly anyone can root out. Maybe through this whistler something that is, there might be some kind of protection to find a worker because, unfortunately, workers are unprotected at that moment when they would discover such an employer. But you've touched another problem, you've touched the bankruptcy managers who built themselves in the Trade Court such a fortress that it's stronger than the Wall of China. And just part of those bankruptcy managers, I'm not going to tell everyone, are many of the culprits that various companies have failed, that the workers have lost their jobs. I'd even say some bankruptcy managers were doing it on the orders of certain tycoons, destroying companies so these later wake them up for nothing. And that's one big problem, and that's the problem where unfortunately, I say in that Trade Court, there's been built one such fort where no one controls those bankruptcy managers. And such bankruptcy managers should answer the same, because they are the same war profiteers as those tycoons who destroyed and bought companies at a certain time through conversion and privatisation, etc. Because these bankrupt managers were involved only in one more sophisticated, more corrupt way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80221	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80222	Thank you very much. My colleague Kunst, not only did these owners report underpaid workers, but they paid themselves lower wages. And you know why? So if the owner reported himself to a minimumer, and the company's CEO was there, then even at the salary of ten thousand kunas he had to pay the state that much. This way you'd rather pay 20% for the profit, and then only 20% pay, report yourself to 3 or 2, 3 thousand kuna. So there are the most company owners and directors who, see how they built houses in Pantovčak or other part of Zagreb, and they have a registered salary of 3 thousand, 4 thousand kuna. Well, out of three thousand kunas, he can't even pay for the basement rooms of his villa, let alone something else. Let alone something else. As for the bank manager. Well, there's this one environment where everything's good, that's where it's all. And otherwise he tries to call swamps lakes with drinking water, but there are always those who twist things, and the Devil will always interpret the Holy Scriptures for his own purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80223	Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80224	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Maric, here you are, and your colleague Kunst mentioned the problem of so-called minimum workers reporting. You have commended in your presentation of a new philosophy in this Penal Code of Penalty, I would also like to commend the introduction of a special head so that crimes against labour relations and social security, there is also the protection of whistles, cancellations for the application and protection of people who went on strike in accordance with the law, and protection of coming to work under the power of decision, etc. But I think that this minimumer application will not require whistles, but it will require consistent application of paragraph 2 of this article which says that the sentence referred to in paragraph 1, which is a prison of up to 3 years, punishes anyone who does not give data or gives incorrect data for determining wages and thus does not pay or pay partially, and paragraph 5 of that law says that under the salary, in the sense of this article, all other payments in cash and nature and contributions, therefore gross amounts involving contributions from wages and wages, which would mean any incorrect data relating to all these receipts were a criminal act referred to in paragraph 2 of this article and subject to prison sanctions up to 3 years old, and that is good and there is no concern as to how counterpart Kunst says that, that whistlers should be felt insecure. This is a criminal offence, being prosecuted by official duty and I think that any anonymous application, without a worker jeopardizing his existence, should be considered by the State's Attorney's office with due care and initiating an investigation or at least a pre-examination investigation in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80225	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80226	Thank you very much. My colleague Lovrin, I'd prefer if the quorum didn't raise both hands for this law, as much as I support it, because I must stress that it's antihuman not to pay the salary. And imagine which paradox, we are constantly calling out that we are the Catholic country, the most believers 85, 90%, not leaving the church, and I know sitting next to me, giving me peace with you, and he didn't pay the salary, he didn't pay the believer. Imagine the hypocrisy. How one can serve two masters. No one can serve God and wealth, and one who is not, who is against man is also against God. And it just needs to end once. But what made humans such hard hearts, wealth, abundance, power, some limitless power, hedonism, so faster hardens the human heart than boiling water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80227	Ms. Representative Nevenka Majdenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's a colleague, Maric, you've been talking about non-payments of salaries, non-payment of contributions to pension and health insurance and other obligations that entrepreneurs have towards both workers and the state, and it's worth reminding, really, why this happened. We should all remember that the Law on Payments brought by the opposition, and the former SDP Government, in that period in 2000 to 2003, was specifically adopted by the Law on Payments in 2002. This law abolished the provision that entrepreneurs can therefore not pay their wages if they cannot pay their wages if they do not pay and contribute to both health and pension and all that follows. They abolished that provision, and we have to remember that at that time the employees really had a obligation and a provision to control all the wages, so they had a review of the gyro accounts, they saw if any, some entrepreneurs in the blockade, so it was all in one place, and they really controlled it, and I have to say that all accounting employees were really afraid and brought in those pay-out documents so that something wouldn't be right. However, in 2002, the Law on Payments is no longer in control, and the Virmanes are passed because the law no longer requires it. And we can freely say that this Law on Payments may have led entrepreneurs simply to become, as you said, no more of that culture of behavior, but that freedom, I will pay as much as I will, and when the employees, when the workers come that they should retire, it turns out that they did not pay contributions to pension insurance. Here's an example of a law passed by the then government, that is, the current opposition, they have passed a series of laws, said Mr. Shuker about a personal identification number, which is really important that you can control what obligations someone has, and thus see if someone is wrong about something. They also passed those laws to be removed from the former... That it goes to the banks. [[You don't understand.]] The banks were neither educated, so they had to organize. What was good, they transferred it. And what happened? That we had to pass that new law on forced pursuits, which is now FINA's doing. So we could say, in connection with this non-payment of salaries, indemnity of contributions, indifference of the performance itself, I'd say one, some of the unfortunate ones can say so are indeed guilty of the laws passed by the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80229	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80230	Thank you very much. Fellow Members, the abolition of these provisions of the law has been devastating for the Croatian economy, but also for Croatian society. This resulted in all those actions that led to the decomposition of society, the sudden wealth of owners and directors exclusively to the harm of all others and employees, but also of the creditors. So much has been reported in bankruptcy, and it's never been charged. Sometimes, with my memory, I have to remember, the DVO and the order of payments. Imagine for 20 years we have made so much progress in technology, and so much lagging behind in financial discipline and business behavior, so much has been introduced into business behavior. We're actually supposed to be making the most progress here, and we're back. That is why I welcome this law to prevent this setback and be the foundation of the future. As for salary payments, only Croatia knows about gross one, gross two. So someone can pay their wages, and they can't contribute. In other countries, civilised countries are paid wages. No gross one and gross two. And we're gonna have to take care of that part someday. And for those who have done so much evil, they have made their foreign exchange accounts so rich abroad and Kunska in Croatia, and they have poored their workers and those with whom they have dealt, it is the only thing I can think of, before the camel will go through the needle's ears.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80231	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80232	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Maric's, apparently, your statement was very inspired, so he caused such a large number of replicas. I'd just look back on the part where you talked about banks. So you mentioned the Dubrovnik Bank. So for the sake of clarity in front of the Croatian public, it should be said that the bank was rehabilitated and that it was sold first to some quarlemaphone after the recovery. I don't think anybody even knows what a charmer is in 2002. So, at a time when she was a coalition government. And it was sold for 185 million kuna. At the same time, the state of Croatia owed the same bank on the basis of the hotel and all the assets that were related to privatisation, etc., compensation later, on that basis the state owed that bank 500 and some million kuna. So, same time. And they have three more years to pay off. And the bank is sold for 185 million kuna, and the state needs to pay another 520 million kuna. So that after a year, two days that same charlemaphone would naturally sell it for twice as much to a new bank or a lot more. Now I don't know exactly what the data is, and you'll probably back it up. And after that, the same new one sold it to OTP and today it's an OTP bank. And it would be really interesting to see how damaged the country really is. I've already asked twice a question about the sale of the Dubrovnik Bank, it's a disaster where workers are damaged, etc., etc. But the fact that Racan's government did it in a way that it actually damaged the state and no one's answering. At the same time, they were selling hotels in a catastrophic criminal manner, at the same time in Dubrovnik, all at the time of Racan's government. And just to mention, just now, my colleague Majdenic said about the Law on Payments, so we should remind the citizens that in 2002 they changed the Law on the bankruptcy procedure in which the workers put the second payment order, and then we had to return to the first payment order, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80233	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80234	Col. Matušić, at the time of the operation of Dubrovačka Banka, was prescribed a minimum reserve rate of 30% from the Central Bank. For years, the Bank of Dubrovnik paid 10%. No one answered, and the governors received awards for such bank surveillance. Speaking of sales, OTP paid 50 times as much as the state sold for 175 million kuna. But it's similar with Slavonska Banka. The state received 4m euros for sale and paid 40m euros for selling. And that's because they're not some so-called. "credit placements" were billable. Later, it turned out that all these credit ratings were previously declared non-refundable from the Central Bank were 100% chargeable. And no one answered at the National Bank or at Slavonska Banka. And imagine that no one wanted to respond from the Central Bank in court for the interests of the state, that no one wanted to testify. Of course we lost the dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80235	And Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80236	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maric, I am pleased to pass this law, especially after your presentation, because you have convinced me that much will be better once this law is passed. You mentioned the army of those who damaged, robbed Croatia. Among them, some have now entered the prayer communities. I think it's a good thing they got into prayer communities, I think it's good no matter what they did or what they did, because I believe that crime and robbery never did, ever. They were neither former communist directors, so they actually took over Croatian companies, independent states of Croatia, but they were not those who had other cards in their pocket, and they did so. For they were not believers. I am also sorry that today, fellow Maric, there are no among us here in this House who are always clean hands, who are without sin, peaceful consciences, who should neither go into prayer communities nor be believers because they are without sin. Who protect in their ranks all those who commit crime and who do not even participate in this debate. They probably won't even vote for this law. So there is no sign of any of them in the test of their own conscience or collectively, if necessary, in the group they represent. They don't even participate, and they claim to come to power. So I would conclude, in fact, there's a book in my hand, it's entitled "The Confession of a Russian pilgrim," and it's actually talking about an accident, and I don't think that the happy ones who have achieved what they've accomplished and the way they've achieved it, and as a doctor, I think they have more pressure, more fat, will die of restless consciences, etc. Therefore, God gives in Croatia enough for all people, and no one to come to some wealth that some have come to because I honestly think it is an accident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80237	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80238	On the feast of Our Lady, I was at one Mass, in a small church where a Franciscan spoke experienced and said that in Croatia there are too many believers and little spirituality, and that there is a huge proportion, there can never be too many believers but there is more than spirituality and in fact it goes with one another. I have nothing against all, though as many members of the community as possible, but that they are true and not declarative believers, that there are also spiritual people, and not only believers for the public, and that there are not those who participated in various agreements and created those when the agreements fell and were participants, but they pray to God that they do not fall, but for such I am not. Because they too today influence that church money goes to private banks where it can be very easy, you have read in risk placements and are talking to various activities that are not consistent in the business of the church. You see the new affair that was in Istria about which and why, the true believers would never participate in such a thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80239	Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. In order not to be all black and white world should be reminded that criminal law is still in effect today and judgments are being passed today, today those who violate the law that does not comply with the country's legal rules, end either in court, or in prisons that do not turn out to be the new modern Penal Code today and that by yesterday there was no protection and from tomorrow it will be much better. What was important and necessary after 12 amendments to the existing Law, bring this new, European, modern criminal law which is in the spirit of the time in which we live in the spirit of Croatia's entry into the European Union and certainly taking over the legal property of the European Union, the modern world, something which is therefore the practice and tradition in Europe and with us with these new criminal acts, new chapters of the Penal Code, by extending the Penal Code, we strengthen only that legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia which is so much needed, given that we have heard about all the problems that we have heard in previous discussions, especially as regards economic crime, non-payment of wages to workers, non-payment of contributions and all that because of these new circumstances in which we live and work, modern technology, the modernisation of society and all that is the prerequisite of modern life certainly leads to some new offences, some new criminal acts for which, until yesterday, the law did not know or knew no criminal acts. The more advanced society is the new crimes that are difficult to detect, but when the consequences of what we saw through the debates are certainly such crimes find a place in criminal law. This Penal Code, which is before us, is a new final Penal Code and should be supported because it protects the legal certainty of the Republic of Croatia and all citizens of all people living in Croatia and the Law itself continues on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, therefore on fundamental human rights. The law is necessary to find within the framework of what is called the protection of the legal order through the Penal Code what is a crime that anyone who commits a criminal offence for this crime is punished. Some discussions have shown problems, some debates have shown that these provisions that are in the Penal Code will surely find some objections in practice until it becomes enforceable in courts, while it is shown in evidence procedures whether all that is good in the Penal Code is really good if what is provided for in the Penal Code is actually implemented to the end. Today there has been a lot of talk about new criminal acts, slander, shame, what is certainly important to highlight must not be allowed anyone to hide in the public interest behind the intention of harming any person with respect to any honor, whether their families, even though the large capital and money behind what is hidden behind slander and disgrace is then saddened because it can be done through newspapers and television for 7 days can be defiled and defiled while in one small correction or something that is said as a small announcement that this man has been released and that there has been no evidence that anyone is being conducted against anyone. That's bad, and I'm not sure if it's enough just fines for the perpetrators when it comes to shame or it needs to be sharpened because really if someone knowingly and intentionally harms someone, and hence long-term damage that is not possible to repair, then it's certain that the punishment should be much stronger and greater than the fine. It turns out that someone who can afford to pay a fine can be freed, and the damage he has done to someone can be permanent and can totally bury a man either in his public work, or his family, and thus what is guaranteed not only by criminal law but also by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and all other laws where everyone is guaranteed and equal rights to work and equal right to free public opinion, so it doesn't turn out that now in this modern world if the media have a lot of money to get out in a way, that's how we pay the fine, we didn't know, we didn't want to, we did everything in the public interest. So maybe there's a little bit of something that needs to be distinguished or maybe increased if it turns out in practice that it's not good. What is also good for this Penal Code is that the crimes of drug abuse are also sharpened, which there is no deviation from the fact that drugs are being held for personal purposes, because today it is a personal need, is tomorrow shared with your friend, and with your neighbor, then it is a drug abuse that really needs to be a provision of our Penal Code that we are here to the end clear that everyone who commits drug abuse commits a criminal offence that will be punished under criminal law. As far as sexual delicacies are concerned, it is also good that this new solution in the KZ is not only sought for coercion, but that there is no consent and that clients are punished under the new criminal law because no one can get away with not knowing what it was about, so that it just happens to pay some kind of punishment and that the perpetrator gets away with it. It is a good thing that this Penal Code implements all those international regulations, agreements, conventions that the new Penal Code, in one new form, protect children's rights, and abuses of children's rights, and that at the level of a qualified crime and violence in the family, it is certain that bullies, domestic violence should not be outside the scope of a qualified crime, because each such act repeats and threatens its children, their family should have a place not at liberty but in prisons, because such people must not hide behind any legal and positive law in the Republic of Croatia. What's good for punishment is that due to the discharge of the prison system, these conditional sentences that were up to six months and now up to the year in prison are being replaced by work for the greater good. This paper can have special instructions, special purposes, not to make it a general good not only for someone to sit down but to really use this empty prison discharge because rehabilitation for the general good really in full form. It's a good thing that punishment is individualised, fined by the income of the perpetrators, it's a good thing that it can't be more dispensation, that someone has more or less, than is estimated by that income, it's a good thing that payment is required through the tax administration, it's a good thing that such punishment can be replaced by a punishment for the common good, so there's a substitute for general good and forced payment, that only then there's a prison sentence, because it's really not necessary to impose prison sentences. Likewise, this Penal Code has also been discussed with regard to these criminal acts of reckless driving without consequences, so it is not necessary to result in a fatal consequence but should also be punished for such an obscenity of driving, for it certainly poses a major threat to safety and stability. Well, at the very least, if no death or traffic violation has been caused, it is certain that such people should be warned because today they have passed without any consequences tomorrow, perhaps this effect will be fivefold higher, so it is good that this crime has also been found in the new Penal Code. I would also point out that as for the criminal offence of taking and giving bribes, it is also a good tightening of penalties, that these penalties have been increased from 1 to 8 years in prison or 1 to 5 years in prison, depending on what kind of bribery is involved. All this in advance is certain to contribute to a quality, modern, European Penal Code, and I am sure that this law in application will have better echoes than they had before. But I say we should not forget that yesterday there was protection of rights, that it is being protected today, and that tomorrow we will protect it much better because it is indeed a modern European law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80241	Thank you. Replica, first Mrs. Representative, Gyurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, dear fellow Salapic, of course, I will support this Penal Code. Well, I just wanted to say a few words to you in the replica why he's a modern-day European criminal law. So here's what we see when it comes to this chapter of the crime against the environment is a few articles that are new in the Penal Code, which is the release of pollutants from a water facility, then the destruction of protected natural values, the destruction of habitats, the trafficking of protected natural values. This law is new within the law, this has never been within the law. And there are fines from 3 to 5 years, depending on whether they qualify as non-performing or serious crime. In addition to these other articles relating to the crime against the environment, allow me to look back on one thing, which is killing or torturing animals. I am pleased with this article or that it is in line with the Animal Protection Act, because very often we listen to and read how animals can be tortured, and most often it is not just about the transport and transport of animals, but about betting, the fighting of dogs, the tortures of the worst kind. I am glad that a new article has been introduced about this, that the animals that are being tortured in this way will, of course, be taken away and also be punished for up to 2 years in prison. What's very important to say in that part is illegal hunting and fishing. He's united here. We used to have a special law on hunting and fishing united and hunting and fishing as well as on freshwater and sea fishing. And just like that, here's what I've been a little bit glad about. It's the devastation of the forest, and here's an increased penalty that I used to be minimal, and now it's increased to three years. And it is indeed in this segment a sign that it is a modern and European law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80243	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable representative of the Sumrak, this very part of the Head of the Penal Code is the protection of the environment, one of the newspapers, the taking over of the EU acquis and the implementation of all international contracts and documents and conventions, and has certainly found its place in this law. What is important in these criminal acts is affecting the health and life of people. Environmental disorder puts people's lives at risk. We've had a few cases, and I think it was in Karlovac when harmful emissions from one company accidentally affected a person and lost his life just as it was found in a place where the harmful substance was poured out without control and without those modern standards of environmental protection or transporting such substances from businesses. We saw footage on the Internet, you mentioned animals how much one case rocked the public when those kittens threw themselves into the water, when people laughed at it. It is certain that such intended punishment and criminal acts lead to order and such people who, regardless of their ability, can therefore not be human but also destroying animals of public well-being but also endangering both human and animal health and life. It is certain that Croatia's membership in the EU is the highest standard and that this law will definitely bring back the offender within the framework of the law because really severe penalties are foreseen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80245	Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80246	Thank you very much. Mr. Salapic, I'm going to comment a little on what you've put in place as one possible thesis for further discussion in some future law, which is a matter of prison sentence in the case of crimes against honor and reputation. As we know, as a working group that has drawn up a proposal for this law in which the criminal legal experts have been issuers is proposed among themselves and for the serious forms of these crimes and prison sentences mainly if it is carried out through the media at a wider meeting and becomes available to a wider circle, including European practice. Therefore, it is true that a number of countries have foreseen such punishment, however, there have been strong objections from media circles. In the end, I think it's a good thing that no prison sentence is being prevented because it's also being studied by the current law, and this one could never have been applied. Therefore, the current law has one principle, approximately if it is proved that it has been passed on purpose to harm one's honor and reputation, it is practically impossible to prove that it is an intention and no one would ever come under the threat of that sanctions, and it would always be that criminal law is restrictive that it prevents freedom of the media, etc. bringing facts into the public interest. However, here is recently a Swedish bestseller who must have been read by 90% of the journalists, which begins with a Swedish journalist describing that he was just leaving for a three-month prison sentence because he published something that he did not check out that he had actually been published in relation to one entrepreneur. And I'd say that in today's stipulation, it might be problematic again because in the case of defamation, the law says that anyone brings out or conveys a false fact that can harm his honor and reputation knowing it's untrue. It's gonna be very hard to prove that someone knew, said I didn't know, I was passing on something I heard, I didn't know it was false, and it wasn't, and I mean I should have been corrupt if it's sure it's true that it's the only time he's allowed to pass on because in any case, he's going to apologize for his ignorance of the truthfulness of that fact. And therefore, this strictly obstructed fine of 500 daily amounts will be, I think, in practice, highly applicable, and it would be very important to apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80247	Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80248	Thank you very much. Well, here's Mrs. Lovrin actually answered the line I wanted to use for Mr. Salapic. It's good that this one is how you say whether the glass is half-empty or full, so talk about the facts when someone is sure that the information is true so it's transmitted or not to know that it's true so it's transmitted. But Mr. Salapic said in his statement that very often behind these slanders or shames stands a large capital. It's not only big capital that stands, but it's the kind of thing used to denunciate and political opponents, so political opponents, rivals, partners, I'm not going to say the enemy because I don't like that word. So politics, not only big capital, is behind this sort of thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80249	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80250	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm sure, colleague Grubisic, that behind some deliberate disgrace and libel there is a policy hidden because here's an empty assembly today, it was yesterday, I'm sure large capital behind the media can be included in a political campaign and also in the desire that one political option, in this case HDZ and its partners lose power. Well, we have just witnessed that feljetons and novels have been in recent months, especially the last days of false information, slander and insult at the expense of the Croatian Democratic Community in all possible media. In my debate, I said not to punish journalists with a prison sentence but to consider what is a public interest that is passed on in the media, whether it is public interest to put it directly into any political option and directly lobby for election results and falsely cite the electoral body. Unfortunately, if something is repeated for seven days or ten people are already beginning to think about what is happening there, whether it is so or not, even that suspicion is dangerous in one reasonable, one normal human thinking is whether it is right and what is public interest. It's hard to prove, but in my debate I wanted to point out that there is a need to work on this because it will certainly prove in practice that such a solution is really not good and that if there is a large capital behind the media houses, and it is hiding, there will indeed be one great evil, which is that innocent people, people who have not broken anything, no legal regulation will be found on the pillar of shame, and that no one will give them the opportunity to really say what it was but will be in a short, small inscription... to say acquittal because there was no evidence. [[You don't understand.]] Well, that's bad because then that case doesn't have the right to the same answer, it doesn't have the right to the same treatment, it's in an unequal position. And that's what I wanted to point out in my debate, it's very dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80251	And Madam Representative Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Salapic, I agree with you when you say that it is good that this Penal Code is not the result of some pressure but that the result of the conversation with the profession, the comprehensive conversation and that it is on the trail of what modern societies have. And it is good that it did not give in to the pressures of those who wanted to decriminalise drugs through this Penal Code because it is you and those who obviously have some different interests, and one of their interests is a blow to the Croatian family. It is known that drugs are evil, that destroys an individual, destroys a family, and then destroys the whole society. And while those who earn drug dealings rub their hands over a bundle of bloody bills, some others fail, their families fail, and then of course we have a society that isn't what they want. Family is the first school of human relations, family is where we teach our children language and culture, it is where we teach our children to pray to God, where we teach our children to the Croatian anthem, but where we teach them what kind of people they should be. All those who propose legal solutions and put public pressures through various social groups and lobbies and who want to hit on the family and who tried and through some segments of the Penal Code should really be ashamed, and perhaps because they are not here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80253	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80254	Dear fellow Petyr, I fully agree with everything you've said. It was really necessary to keep this in the Penal Code. One of the general problems of the society in which we live, especially among young people, is that this is also the way that comes from the ranks, especially the SDP, the way to support the decriminalisation of easy drugs, and that people who need to learn first steps by their school and their lives to get to work, to start their families, find themselves in doubt whether it's really good or bad. It's embarrassing to me. Besides drugs, the big problem is alcohol. Today we can go into the night at 2.3 p.m. the vast majority of young people are in an alcoholic state, probably under the influence of drugs. This raises the question of what the local community is doing with such cases, which raises the question of endangering security, and there are possible crimes that begin in such situations without people being aware of what they are doing, especially young people. Therefore, I agree with you, this crime must have been kept, but it is certainly necessary to strengthen control measures, restrictions at all levels, and especially at these levels of public life, young people where they move because it is certainly not a good message from the Croatian Parliament to talk about the need to decriminalise drugs and that it should give young people a decision to decide whether it is good or bad for them. Surely it is also a danger to the stability of the state and the Croatian Democratic Community in no way will ever allow it, and I believe your party, we are together in the same thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80255	Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm going to point out, too, is that the existing Penal Code was passed in 1998, that it was changed. Therefore, the amendment and the addition were a total of 12 and, in that sense, the need to pass a new Penal Code. When it adds that this law is in line with all relevant European Union documents, so Europe that treats the problem of criminal law before us is in the final version, as finally a new contemporary European Penal Code. However, they should also be stressed, developed and those elements I have systematised them in seven basic terms of difference, between first reading and the final bill. So let's see what, in the meantime or through the debate, through committees, has changed the position of a professional or other public in the provisions of the proposed law from first reading to the final proposal of the law. And in the first place, I would point out, so this is the first element of the crime of non-payment of wages that has been experienced or is now modified and, in my opinion, good. Therefore, a more high-quality solution to criminalising only those situations where the employer is, therefore, with the intention of his company as a legal person, in order not to pay the salary. The second element to be absolutely highlighted also differs from the first reading, as the Assembly Committee on Justice's observation was adopted, where the most severe forms of crimes are extended from 30 to 40 years of age. An absolutely acceptable solution and I think it's necessary. Those objections related to the prevention and abuse of intoxicating drugs were also adopted and adopted in that sense when they are naturally involved in the opiate group and all of them are intoxicated or banned in sport. So, we're talking about doping and absolutely that doping as something that's forbidden and what needs to be removed from sports should be entered into criminal law alone in terms of the ban itself. It was adopted, why not point out, that was the Croatian bar of law to return the crime of nadrisarism to criminal material law. But it's been modified here, too. So, it's easier if you work at the checkout, and there's a milder punishment. But my personal opinion is that it absolutely needs to be in criminal material law and that this is a good solution and in exactly this form and nomotechnical statement that this is foreseen by the final proposal of the law. Why not point out the difference between the Ministry of Finance's proposals when we talk about good now incriminations and the criminal acts of abuse of privileged information and abuses in the capital market. And in this little analysis of my seventh element, which should be highlighted, and the difference between the first reading and the final draft of the law, and the paper is important, and it is because a new article has been introduced a partial conditional conviction. So, as an institute, a partial conditional conviction against the Swiss and Austrian models, their criminal laws, which ultimately not only represents a new institute but can contribute to the discharge of the prison system. Furthermore, when we talk about this now final version of the Penal Code, it seems to me that there are certain segments or parts of the Penal Code that really have a reform character. Or all these 12 amendments and additions of the Penal Code are now systematized in this way represent, in some sense, a major reform of criminal material law. First of all, it is about modernising economic crimes. They are colleagues, and a lot has been said in the debate so far. These economic offences are actually tailored to the functioning of companies on the market and to all those problems or these gray zones or to the conduct of criminal offences that can be achieved. I think they're a newer, more modern way. As such incriminating and that these or proposed provisions of the Penal Code will, in fact, respond to what the non-material legislation says, and that it will prevent or allow all to prosecute certain forms of illegal conduct in that sense. A new head of criminal offences against labour relations and social security has been introduced. It's a very important reform and sexual delicacy. Then, a reform of crimes against honor and reputation was carried out. We have had many opportunities to hear quality, reasoned debates about these crimes, and these are also criminal acts of disgrace and slander and absolutely need to be supported by these legal solutions. And in fact, the insistence that no one can deliberately embarrass anyone, deliberately defamation someone, and the intention to do so is to express even an indignity to stress, without being criminally-legally responsible, regardless of the matter of prison punishment, the fine. I'm also not in favour of solutions and I repeat, we cannot in society get rid of the provisions of criminal material law, that someone should necessarily go to prison for a written or spoken word. But that some forms of sanctions must exist and that in court practice it simply has to be sanctioned in a way that these norms are actually a prevention that this is not happening, that this is not happening. As a solution, I absolutely support it. As for the crime of drug abuse, I agree with all my predecessors who mentioned those solutions, and criminal justice institutes. Then, to support the proposed and significant reform of the fines. I'd dare say this whole penalty system where there's been a reduced manner of punishment, both in terms of height and in terms of punishment. So, I absolutely support those solutions. But it seems to me that even in antiquity as an institute of criminal law, some argue whether it is an institute of criminal material law or an institute of criminal procedural law. Every time we talk about stopping, we talk about criminal material law, so it's like the institute worked out with this proposal, and there's a new solution. So that model was accepted that we no longer have relative absolute deadlines out of date, that these are meant to be unique deadlines. There are no more interruptions and calculation of all those moments when antiquity is interrupted, so the calculation for concrete crimes which are good solutions as well as the solution as regards the extension if the first-degree ruling expires in time so that all these deadlines do not switch to second-degree courts in terms of the possibility of obsolescence. This limitation period exists, so the possibility to extend by two years which solution is also necessary to support. There were speeches and words of high-quality debates about them, we always called them so-called. traffic delicacies, and I need to back up my own principle approach, because what actually happened. Penalty liability regardless of the occurrence of harmful consequences, it's important, it's important to emphasize, someone who drives an obscenity, who drives 220 an hour, who drives under the influence of alcohol, who drives fast in front of school regardless of what happens... Consequence or not, God forbid it isn't, it should be a criminal response, because when a harmful consequence comes, then it's already too late. [[You don't understand.]] This provision should therefore absolutely be supported and supported by the way in which this statement or the creation of those provisions has been accessed in this final proposal of the law. So, I would also agree with all of this, and we have debated a lot on the Committee on Law, on the Justice Committee, which is the subject of such crimes, even if we don't have God's death result and all those tragedies that happen unfortunately in traffic, that even in the sense of court's case law and decision, it might be possible to consider good solutions, to take away traffic in these situations, to take away a car as a means to either commit a crime or to commit a crime, and to prevent the person who committed the crime from driving that car or to come into a position to do the same crime again. Just one more word at the very end, I see that my time is running out, not all of the provisions of economic crime are new, of course not, there is also a criminal material right that allows me to intervene in all these situations when a crime is committed. So even now we have a system and procedural material criminal law where these forms of unwanted economic crime can be sanctioned, but it should be said that the basis of this law has been tempered, or some new elements have been added, or have been highlighted not only through the being of criminal acts, but also through the height of prevented penalties, what should be sanctioned primarily, for example for the purpose of receiving and giving bribes has always been sanctioned, always, therefore, in all these changes and additions to economic business, but these changes and additions... more severe penalties in accordance with the relevant international documents. [[You don't understand.]] And I will conclude my debate exactly as I started it, so the quality of this modern law is quite certain and that it is in line with all the provisions of international law that when we analyse or best practice that we are looking to have both in our criminal legislation and in this sense support the very proposal of the law and, of course, I will personally support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80257	Thank you. Replications. First, Mr. Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Tomljanovic, you were talking about criminal sanctions and the capital market, so I'm just going to refer to those two. The degree of development of social relations in a society, the satisfaction of members of that society, is precisely proportional to the number of criminal offences, and criminal sanctions. The less criminal acts that society will be, the richer and happier. But there is an important preventive action, it is important to act effectively and spotably regulatory and supervisory bodies, and all state institutions. If they operate, institutions and those regulatory acts will not be so many crimes. And very often it happens that the regulatory institutions have just failed. For example, I will repeat for Royal Pension Insurance, act outside the law, are not licensed and the HANFA cannot monitor them. And who needs to rather than the state inspectorate determine whether it's true, whether they can act on the market or not, and I demand that the state inspectorate go there urgently. But also this capital market, this new provision that will be criminally responsible for falsely concealing and, showing and concealing facts. That's a great provision. How can one, a fund that falsely shows that he has invested in real estate and is therefore sanctioned, then goes against individuals, and in fact they have come across laws, and one who opposes Croatian laws is that of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80259	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80260	Well, I would answer to an esteemed colleague, of course, and in that sense, I think that in one of my replicas I have already said that and I cannot regulate social relations exclusively or simply no matter how important or important this law is to criminal material legislation. That's what you said. I absolutely support you that all the institutions of the system, so all those who care about legality and law enforcement absolutely need to be on one, I will say so to the civilizational degree of developed democracy in order to have real relations in society. And this is actually your theorem that it would also be a definition when you connect the state of sociological society with, that the number of fines or other convictions imposed, so it might be from a sociological point of view, too, to argue with the legal one, but I'm advocating so-called. organized societies, for the functioning of the rule of law at the highest possible level, that the laws adopted are the same, applied on all sides equally, and on the other institutions of the system which must be strong, which must do their job and synergy of one and the other we get the best desired results in both political and sociological and certainly legal terms only then. Otherwise, as far as the replica is concerned, in relation to economic crime or sanctioning this type of crime, I absolutely support you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80261	Ms. Representative Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80262	Thank you very much. So, colleague Tomljanovic, you only mentioned the issue of criminalising the possession of traffic, production, drug trafficking and other substances banned in sport. I think that this deserves a few words about it, namely this new proposal to stay in the Criminal Code and to own drugs and drug trafficking and drug production, but by measuring a different penalty I think a very good balance has been achieved, between sending a clear message that both drug consumption and drug possession, especially the sale and intervention of an extremely dangerous act, that it is necessary to protect the social value primarily of human health, but also the value if you want and the economy, and the family, and the lives of people. So this new proposal is a crime of abuse of intoxicating drugs moved from the head of crimes protected by international law to the head of crimes against human health. This new way of defining, therefore, which determines that anyone who has an unauthorised possession of substances declared by the regulation by drugs or substances prohibited in sport that this is in line with the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse. So that's the first one. Secondly, by new terms of prison sanctions for up to 6 months, so far has been a fine or a prison sentence for up to a year. And the law needs to be read as a whole. So, they all object, and that is where this balance is to be achieved, that because of the possession of small amounts of drugs, young people will be criminally infected by sending them to prison, therefore neither was they in practice, although the prison sentence has been prevented, because the opportunity has been applied in criminal proceedings, so in persecution, but also the institute of insignificant crime. And now I want to say that according to the general part of this proposed Penal Code, any prison sentence of up to 6 months will necessarily be offered to replace the work for the general good of every perpetrator and probably through this execution of the sentence of work for the general good, not by going to prison for the possession of drugs, a young man will certainly have a chance to also through the system of probation to act educationally. So to conclude, you have to fight for every young life, absolutely. And above all, secure education and work, but when he goes to hell drugs then he also provides him with treatment and animation through work and through schooling. But by decriminalization itself we will not achieve a result, this way sends a clear message to everyone that drug use, reselling especially, but the enjoyment that this is evil, personal evil, family evil and social evil.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80263	Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker, replica. ... And the answer to the replica. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Hell of a way, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80264	May I? Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, neither by the way nor by the way, nor by the way, we are talking about criminal material law that has a whole series of institutes to be highlighted, and for drug problems or criminal legal response to possession, unauthorized use and all that social evil is, so when we talk about drugs, not a single debate or a whole day of debate in work, nor months of debate should be, so if we achieve a reduction of this really big social problem to at least a little bit of a big deal. Drugs and considered as a problem of drug use or unauthorized drug trafficking from criminal property rights positions have always disputed whether it is necessary to decriminalise or otherwise impose sanctions on the drugs themselves. And I absolutely support your position, your opinion. No decriminalization is considered for these reasons that you've been talking about. I can't and never could accept those views that having small quantities or reselling small quantities that should come into some other zones, not criminal material rights zones. I support that these are exactly the legal solutions that have been proposed, and for some insignificant crime, or if there are small amounts and minor matters, there is an institute for a provision of criminal procedural law when such things or life situations are not being prosecuted and I am not for that segment to have decriminalisation. And actually, in that sense, and let's cut the story short, I'm in favour of these legal solutions and exactly what you've replicated to me for my basic exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80265	Thank you. Now, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Tomljanovic's question is whether all of these problems that are being talked about, above all, that paying is a criminal offence, can be solved by criminal law. I think some other laws that regulate that area need to be resolved so that really those who break it, and these laws prevent them from having something that's effective before that. Why? Because when I'm talking about payouts, then you need to see what's causing the payout. Some do it on purpose, so they have machines in one company, they have employees in the other, and they charge with a third. And the normal thing is that where workers don't come to any income, then when the state paid the first three salaries, it's going to go into bankruptcy, so these workers get these three salaries, and then after a few months, you hire them again through the stock market, and you get a boost. So things happen that just aren't good. And the Penal Code, if we don't settle this before, unfortunately, it won't solve anything in the future. Unfortunately. Another thing, when we talk about penalties and pay the fines – let's look at the situation we have in the judiciary today and what kind of situation we have today in criminal courts. The tax administration is engulfed with requirements for the collection of fines in criminal courts, which are of several hundred kunas both infringing courts and police. And the second thing is, what kind of a court situation is in courts, how much is the penalty unpaid at this point? And let's not just bring something by law, not solve the problem we have at this point. So at this point we have definitely a problem with collecting fines. And we can determine that there should be a hundred daily and a thousand daily incomes, but if we don't perfect the instrument of how to charge those penalties, we haven't done anything in principle. Then I'd say we'd make an alibi for someone so they can do something, and we wouldn't be able to charge him. How many fines have been charged through the public auction of the property of the one who has to pay something to the court with the basis of the penalty? So let us not expect if we do not apply all existing laws that the Penal Code will solve all problems in Croatia. He won't, unfortunately he won't solve the payoff problem for those poor people who've been cheated and paid their wages, and at the same time he bought himself a boat or bought himself a car. And in the end, bankruptcy. If he can't, then I'll do it another time? So, the elemental thing about bankruptcy in Croatia has been in recent years, unfortunately, that bankruptcy has been in many, many cases a problem of abuse. There was a sale of property that was of interest to someone, and there was no bankruptcy procedure with the aim of keeping what is healthy in the company and keeping one part of the employees working in that company and that this company, in accordance with positive examples around the world, continues to do normal business, but no longer with so many and so many employees rather than with 30.40%. And when we start bankrupting in such a way, when those who run bankruptcy start acting responsibly in such a way that the bankruptcy leads to it, so you have some examples in Croatia lately where after the bankruptcy the companies started doing well and doing great business. Why? Well, because the bankruptcy was conducted only by the rules of the profession. You don't need to invent hot water here, the hot water has been invented long ago, but if you're breaking the rules of the profession, then basically the bankruptcy process leads you to criminal waters, unfortunately, and that should be made clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80267	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80268	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm sorry that my esteemed colleague realized that my own solution is that we're going to settle all pay defaults by amending the Penal Code or prescribing non-payments is actually a criminal offense and that we're going to solve all the problems here. On the contrary, you in your basic debate and in the replica, I stressed that criminal law and criminal material legislation come after that that is only the end when sanctioning illicit conduct. In my basic debate, I even stressed that I support even this change of incrimination in relation to the fact that the non-payment of salaries only among those employers in the end line with intent do not pay and bring into the company into such a situation on purpose that they cannot pay the salary. So, what is going to happen under this Law, so these situations will be sanctioned and I think they should be sanctioned if wage default occurs on purpose or abuse of any position of authority that someone has as an employer in relation to the worker, and I also commended the exceptional solution to define the contributions within the framework of the salary. And certainly the criminal law will absolutely not solve the default of salaries, the payout is in the economy, the payout is another category, but for all the reasons that we have had to hear in previous discussions it is well estimated that non-payment is paid in exceptional situations when there is intentional or abuse of those positions by the employer in relation to its employee when it comes to this, and in these situations it must be processed and proven in particular. a final colleague in criminal law theory says that this is one catalogue, a number of crimes with exclusive or primary prevention tasks. So, it's not just penalistic or sentences or prisons, what we're looking at in American films in their system, content, essence, just criminal material rights, sometimes more important is the role of prevention, the prevention of action at that time, through the public basis of criminal law, we point to illegal behaviours and, of course, for such behaviours, we determine an adequate sanction, I think it's also the case here, we're going to solve pay by individual economies, on the market by the work of all the institutions, and one segment of that will all be this criminal property law norm.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80269	Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80270	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. So we have before us a second reading of the proposal of the second Penal Code after we discussed it in July of the first reading. In relation to the first reading as well as in the discussions, the Proposer noted most of the remarks and proposals made by the representatives both at the plenary session and at the working body meetings were respected, so certain observations by the working bodies and are now contained in this final draft law, it is certainly good and certainly a contribution to the quality of the Law itself. I would like to emphasise in view of the exceptional importance and importance of this law for the entire criminal justice system, it is good that the adoption of a new Penal Code has been approached, because so far as we have heard the applicable Criminal Law has been amended 12 times, as it has led to certain discrepancies between certain provisions, and this law has therefore entered into force in 2008. Also in the meantime, a fundamental procedural law was passed, the Criminal Procedure Act was passed, the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Juvenile Courts, and therefore it was also necessary to access systematic procedures in this fundamental criminal law as a fundamental material criminal law. In all the public debates that have been held so far as well as in the debate in the Parliament in the first reading, the greatest focus has been the introduction of some new institutes, above all norming as criminal offenses of non-payment of wages, non-payments of contributions, labour abuses, dwindling driving, disgrace, mistrust in economic business, subsidisation, etc. So many of these crimes were still spoken today. In my first reading in my debate, I pointed to some of the other non-significant newspapers and institutes that are being introduced by this law. For example, a newspaper is important in the way of standardising the necessary defence according to the theory of normative guilt taken from the contained in this law, which also amends the provisions on extreme urgency. Also important changes relating to the Institute of Depreciation have been discussed today during the debate on which they are also very important for the sake of legal certainty. There is an age-old newspaper that distinguishes relative and absolute limitation and deadlines of old, the proposed unique deadlines of old have been reduced by the deadlines of absolute and extended deadlines of relative limitation. It is also important here to say that the Committee on Justice's observations have been adopted, so the deadlines for the most severe crimes have been extended from 30 to 40 years, which is of course very good. As regards the non-depreciation of criminal prosecution for certain crimes, the present proposal continues to contain crimes of genocide, crimes of aggression, crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes that do not become obsolete under international law. Crimes are also covered which do not become obsolete under the provisions of the Constitution, which is normised by the latest additions of the Penal Code that we adopted in May this year, which refers to the non-depreciation of the crimes of war profit and crime from the process of conversion and privatisation. Likewise, the newspaper and also a good solution to this Act is the individualisation of the fine in this regard was also a debate, it is a way of expressing the fine, the applicable law gave it in daily income, and now foresees to be given in daily amounts which are not only income but also the perpetrator's necessary costs and takes into account the overall property of the perpetrators when determining the daily amount. In doing so, it is proposed that in the event of non-payment, the fine is forced to be charged through the tax administration, but if in this way the fine could not be charged, it should be replaced and replaced by the work for the general good at large, and ultimately only as a final measure to the prison in accordance with the conditions laid down in the law. Significant improvements in this law have also been made in the security change system. It is therefore proposed that, in addition to the existing safety measures of mandatory psychiatric treatment, mandatory treatment of addiction, banning the exercise of title, activity or duty, banning the management of motor vehicles, the introduction of new security measures, and the mandatory psychosocial treatment, the ban on visiting certain places and association with certain persons, the distance from the common household, the ban on access to the Internet and the safeguards for the full execution of the prison sentence. In addition to the applicable law, it was deleted from the list of security measures because it is proposed to be treated as a special measure together with the confiscation of property benefit because the law defines the purpose of this measure is not the same as other security changes. It is also not foreseen as a security measure, a measure of banning foreigners is regulated by administrative regulations, so the matter is governed by the Foreign Law. Here are some of the reasons why I will definitely support and support the adoption of this Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80271	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80272	Mr. Sesvečan, you mentioned some new institutes, and among other things one in the head that refers to crimes against reputation and honor. There's been a lot of talk about it this morning. I was particularly intrigued by these two articles concerning shame and slander. I have one question for the proposer, and for all of you, and you all know that the picture speaks more than a thousand words. There's no mention of photographs or photo montage anywhere. Why are we only talking about facts, some false factual claims, and even there, we're talking about German terms... order, gossip, gossip, and ultimately the best Croatian expression called shame. Under that disgrace, it's not only verbally or falsely, but also photographs, photo montages. I'm talking about this because I really happen to have very unpleasant experiences at local level in local media. Mrs. Lovrin mentioned about the inability to prove her intention and that it gave up the possible prison sentence, and that the rest was only on fines, I think this should have been considered and I don't know if it was still time to add any possible amendment. In any case, keeping this institute in this head is the same, not only in this head, but in this Penal Code says that there is an increased social responsibility and that there is a reason why it is right here in this law and I can link this to a breach of the confidentiality of information. And I'm glad that there's been a leveled breach of the confidentiality of information with official secrecy and it's been spoken of as three years in prison, and I think we need to stress that because we have a lot of examples of official secrecy and administrative procedures both through tax administrations and through other institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80273	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80274	I agree with you. I just want to say a few words about the introduction of a new crime of disgrace in crimes against honor and reputation, and here today, through the debate, a lot of problems have been caused by this very formulation where it must be proven that this intention is a concrete act of disgrace or slander, therefore committed with intent. First of all, we will see how the case law will react, how the courts will rule in certain proceedings. However, in any case, I also agree that with predecessors who have said that it might not be good at this time to impose a prison sentence for these crimes, because there are ways to combat such crimes through the intended sanctions. First of all, it is also important to replace the provision and insistence through this law that the penalties for the short duration of up to 6 months are punishable in order to replace alternative sanctions primarily for the work of the general good, and this will also result in such a normisation or such prescribed penalties.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80275	And Mrs. Nevenka Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80276	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Sesvečan talking about new institutes, or newspapers in this Penal Code. I would just briefly refer to that nature and the natural values that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia and enjoy its special protection I would refer to as a newspaper and one of another of the additional protections well in this particular area. That's covered by 20. Head of this bill of law. Sustainable use of natural heritage is a priority that is important for many segments of development because many development projects directly or indirectly involve nature as an environmental component. Since we're a country and tourism and agriculture. Environmental pressures are becoming more and more pronounced on the coast and on the islands, so continued environmental concern is needed, as we have done so far with significant regulations. However, since the pressures are higher, and the space is much more appreciated now because we are aware of this space and I hold that wealth that it is good to strengthen that care but also valorize the environment and include it in many development projects. If there were no obstacle to such a thing, I believe that the good provisions, from Articles 193 to 214, which further protect through the criminal provisions of that area, are in fact the possibility of additional protection of that very space. So that could be a good and systematic protection of these provisions, it seems to me that it will really help in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80277	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80278	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow All-Secretary, there was a mention of drug abuse. It is unnecessary to say how much drug abuse is a major problem for an individual, the family of course and society as a whole and also to say that the register of therefore addicts, mainly these heroine ones, has been growing lately. And that's why it amazes this approach, the ease of accessing our colleagues on the left-hand side that so easily refers to it. Those easy, heavy drugs, all kinds of formulations. Drugs are drugs. Great... He once said that alcoholism starts with a small cup and the question is where is the trigger. [[You don't understand.]] So, taking care of the health of individuals, families and society as a priority, and in that sense I keep in mind that the clear determination of this drug abuse problem in this law is welcome in any case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80279	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80280	I agree absolutely with you, therefore, regarding the normation of crimes, so drug abuse. It certainly would not have been good to give up the punishment, i.e. the provision of sanctions in those cases where it is as some have suggested, so you mentioned who, when it comes to the possession of a small amount of drugs such as the possession of a quantity for personal use, should not be a criminal offence. So I'm going to say that addiction and drug abuse starts with smaller amounts, starts with one joint, one tablet. So we know that drugs are drugs, and you've talked about it, and it's a lot of evil not just for the individual, but for society and the state, so for the family before that and the country as a whole. Therefore, I think it's a good thing that this standard of drug abuse is kept in this proposal of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80281	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would also say something about the fact that this law will not lead to the decriminalization of the possession of light drugs and that is the fundamental difference actually between us when we talk about the ruling coalition and the opposition representatives that are not there today. So that's one of the fundamental differences and we can really see exactly what we're different about. We will not allow the availability of drugs to young generations and not only of young generations but also of middle and older people, etc., to those who abuse drugs so we will not allow them to be available, and certainly to allow the decriminalisation of particularly easy drugs to be made available to young generations because we fight most for them, for their future. The fact is, unfortunately, our rivals from the opposing camp, the SDP and others, unfortunately, are taking the lead, trying to win, think they'll collect some political points, but certainly that's not healthy for any society. And in this sense, indeed, here we are concerned and the fact that they are not even participating today as they are these days, that that is why they receive wages. I'll say it one more time, some of their members of their club don't come full term. Their main SDP strategy for economic issues, Mr. Grcic, I don't think he's been in this Croatian Parliament twice since the beginning of the term of office. He's gone, why... There's no reason why he'd be sitting here in the Parliament, being a parliamentary representative, etc. [[You don't understand.]] He is the SDP's main economic strategist who has not appeared in the assembly for four years. It may have been two or three times by chance, if he was on a trip through Zagreb, then he stopped by the Croatian Parliament, etc., possibly in some, possibly some kind of debate, possibly. ... And what to say when their president is party to an individual debate 0 debate during the four-year term. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] True, a man's groin is a pain in the ass, he needs to take care of it, his groins, but 0 discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80283	Mr. Agent Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80284	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us extensive material of the new Penal Code, which we have already discussed this year, and which the commission has indeed made an effort to bring it into line with current international documents such as United Nations documents, legal property of the European Union, the Council of Europe Convention, the legal standards of the European Court of Human Rights, etc., and so on, and so on, this new Criminal Law is in line with our new Criminal Procedure Act and the other criminal laws in force in the Republic of Croatia. There are more important things in the new Penal Code, however, given that the debate has already moved away, I would like to say a few words as a member of the Committee on the Environment, but also as an agent coming from Sisak-Moslavina County, which is a county known for its large industrial complexes, which are therefore also major potential space polluters. And I am therefore pleased that the crimes against the environment are in line with Directive 208/99 on the protection of the environment. So in this way, we already had a situation in Sisak-Moslavina County, specifically in Sisak, that on several occasions a particular company was accused, even criminally convicted of environmental pollution. In any case, this jurisdiction is being extended, and thus investors are also forced to respect the fundamental rights of Sisak's inhabitants, which is clean air. In this chapter, new crimes such as the threat of ozone layer, the destruction of protected natural values, trade in protected natural values,... the regimes, etc. [[You don't understand.]] What I would particularly like to stress here is also because I come from Sisak-Moslavina County, that with special care I have followed the heads of the crime against official duty, justice and public order and the Republic of Croatia. And in particular, I would also point out the tightening of penalties for the crimes of abuse of positions and powers and the introduction of a new crime now called trade in influence, and more precisely define the exploitation of the official position responsible... Why am I particularly pointing this out? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just because of what happened last week in Sisak-Moslavina County. Last week, the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County contracted the sale of a share of a commercial company owned mostly by Sisak-Moslavina County with a company founded six months ago, with a company that has no assets, with a company that has no traffic over its giro account. But this company from a particular bank got a 20 million-dollar loan so it could buy a majority package of that company sold by the county. And exactly the current reactions of the county concerned through the media are just trying to distract it from the events, and this event is one big affair that shakes Sisak-Moslavina County. Here, I'm sorry that there are no colleagues from the SDP here today and I'd like to ask openly if after what happened last week in Sisak-Moslavina County I can still say that HDZ is a criminal organization and they're not ready to clear up at their doorstep. I also have to say that I am sorry that this law only takes effect in 2013 because I think it is a very good law that contributes to strengthening the fight against particularly organised crime, which is clearly happening in Sisak-Moslavina County. But I believe that these existing laws that are in force will give an adequate answer to this situation that we have found ourselves in. I find the new Penal Code appropriate, I think it's correct, I think it's fine, and I'll support its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80285	Thank you. Replications. First Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80286	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Shantek, you have set a very good example here of precisely doubting the abuse of the position and authority of the Sisak-Moslavina County. That's not the only example. He's the latest example now. However, she is also a person who should be really concerned about the adoption of this new Penal Code because you too know well and I also think that she is a very easy person to say lunches, a lie. One of those lies she said, and here's today's morning list published. I'm sorry to advertise that list but I was offered her lunch and her reply to the mayor of Novska where she said our president didn't advocate the economy at all. She did, though, that she destroyed it. And I'll confirm something else to her. I will confirm to her exactly that the Croatian government has invested 2.3 million kunas in the economy only of the city of Novska. Why am I pointing that out? I point out because she's a woman who's very easy to tell the truth and that she doesn't answer for it. Well, I can see by this Penal Code that those who tell lies in the media want to deceive the public in a way that they have to answer. She's also a woman who's had four or five citizens' applications for this libel. Among other things, mine and yours. So we need to keep an eye on the future of what we are going to say especially in public. And that's why this law is very welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80287	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80288	Here's an esteemed colleague, this example I've set, in fact, is one of the finals of one business that the esteemed mayor has been doing for several years. Therefore, in order to make such an illegal decision on the sale of the majority stake of a company whose value is estimated at more than 100 million kuna, it was necessary to have a majority in the county congregation. They did not have the majority in 2009 after the local elections, but bought councillors in the County Assembly in such a way as to appoint them as advisor of 14 quasi advisers, ten of them are councillors in the County Assembly. It is therefore possible to make these decisions, so it is possible to make decisions that are completely illegal, so it is possible to do what is done in Sisak-Moslavina County. What I have to say here is that the State's Attorney's Office has complete information on all these situations and we expect the State's Attorney's Office to do the same thing to everyone. So he'll treat the perpetrators of crimes, not some selection.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80289	Okay. And Mrs. Representative Gyurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80290	Thank you. Here it is, I would just like to join my colleagues in the debate when he talks about how well-compliant the European law is. We'll soon have an attorney general on schedule and soon enough, so I think that's a very good point here. Crimes against marriage, family and children are in line with the Family Law, and new crimes of forced marriage have been imposed, violations of child privacy. But the crime of domestic violence has been wiped out because it is now being qualified differently in the family. But with the members of the family being extended and otherwise defined and expanded than so far. I think it will do a lot of good both for the punishment and for the bully in the family as well as for the other things that apply to our occupier and his future deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80291	Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, he told a colleague he was sorry his SDP colleagues weren't there. I'd say that's sad. It was once again said what I was saying yesterday, and it concerns their coming to the sessions. And it concerns generally coming to meetings of parliamentary deputies who have been paid for their work to attend meetings. And it would be good to think about it and to change the Rules of Procedure in the section when we talk about the fees and salaries of parliamentary deputies, that those parliamentary deputies who are unjustly lagging out of the session because we know very well that parliamentary representatives have a duty and represent the Assembly in various international institutions of the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the NATO Assembly, etc. they shall have obligations on other grounds such as membership on individual committees, such as the chairpersons of the Committee or members of the Committee. However, of course it is justified and it is the basis of the Rules of Procedure, participate in the work and perform their duties outside the Parliament. But that's not what this is about. Unfortunately, many MPs in this case and the SDP have not come to the session since the start of the term of office, and no one has denied them any rights that result only because they are parliamentary representatives. So in the European Parliament, if the euro-parliamentary does not come to work unwarrantedly, he does not get the diaries for that day, his diaries are lifted for that day, and it is the most normal sanction because workers, employees in all companies, were public, state, private, etc., of course they are sanctioned if they do not come and do their part of the job without reason, of course they are also being fired, etc. But here you have people who for four years by the SDP, members, parliamentary representative, members of this House who have not been in their jobs three times for four years, not because they have performed the duties of a parliamentary representative, but because they work in other places, because they receive additional salaries, etc. So they do not do their job as a parliamentary representative and should really consider that this way of conduct that is sad, really sad, tragic, that is destroying this institution of the Croatian Parliament, which simply otherwise creates perception in the public, indeed such people should be sanctioned and we should take this step ourselves and amend the Rules of Procedure in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80293	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80294	Well, colleague Matušić, when I said I was sorry, I thought first of all that I was sorry they weren't councilmen, because then they would know what they were doing. However, we do not know what they are doing, so there is this possibility, given that they are not here in the Parliament that they may have gone to Sisak-Moslavina County, so they may have asked their mayor if the transaction might be about the crime of money laundering, which is very present in the public of Sisak-Moslavina County. I believe we will also have an answer from the SDP on what their mayor is doing and whether her actions are in line with the SDP programme and with the applicable laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80295	Mr. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So this second reading of the Penal Code and all the newspapers, as well as all the objections covered by this Penal Code, are certainly welcome, and certainly they have a future that is consistent with European standards and the laws of the European Union, as well as conventions. Some of the new offences that exist in other European legislation have been introduced, while some of the existing ones have been singled out in separate chapters because of their specificity. Surely we can stress here that the actions against computer systems, programmes and data, the crimes against intellectual property, crimes against privacy, that is all about newspapers, the modernisation of economic crimes was one of the most important tasks of this Penal Code, so that it has experienced significant changes in relation to the past which in its articles had former social property and some forms that have been being dragged from the former system. Surely the harmonisation of these offences with the acquis of the European Union is also needed because of our soon entry into the family of modern European countries, but it would also be good if it were applied even before we enter the European Union. In any case, the work is a fraud in the public procurement process, which consists of curbing the responsibility of competitors in public procurement, as well as in violation of the rights of creditors in economic business, certainly in bankruptcy and bankruptcy are extended to situations where no bankruptcy has been initiated and over-indebted the firm. I also believe that the non-payment of salaries defined by this Penal Code will also welcome workers who were left without pay, and their owners or directors of the company had villas, cottages, yachts and all that was pumped from these companies and placed on private accounts or in private ownership converted from workers' salaries, incomes that should have been paid for pension and health insurance, and surely this legislation will have a different attitude towards wages and contributions in the future. What is visible today was a lot of words in this Croatian House, which is a reform of crimes against honor and reputation, a new criminal act of disgrace has been introduced, while slander is limited only to knowingly and deliberately lying, this is what I say in practice because in recent times there have been certain inscriptions and claims that do not stand, that are false, that are going towards the purpose of defamation and disgrace, and it is difficult to prove them, and the current formulation when it is spoken of that it was exclusively intended to be defamation, it remains in court practice, on the transparent decision of the judge of the individual, in the possibility of appeal, it is not defined exactly how it will be proved that it was intention or that it is known to be a lie, and also with the intention of inflicting insults, defamination, and all of the stress and all of what it results, that it is determined from the information about the fact that the fact that the whole of the media, the fact that it is based on the fact that it on the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that it is true of the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact of the fact that the information of the fact that it is that the fact that the fact that the information of the fact of the fact of the fact of the fact of the fact is that the fact is that the fact of the fact of the fact of the fact is that the fact that the fact of the fact of the fact is that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact of the fact of the fact is that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that it is that the fact of the fact is that it is that it is that it is that the fact that it is that the fact that the whole of the whole of the whole of the fact that the whole of the fact that it is that the fact of the whole of the fact that it is that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact of the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact of the fact of the fact of the fact that it is that the fact that the fact is that it is that the fact that the fact that the fact of the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that it is that it is that the fact of the fact of the All of this in one part of this will also be questionable and will remain case-law on how to prove the real intention that someone wanted someone on purpose, even if we also knew that the judge knew the individual was not taking into account that evidence that someone knew and should not have, and that he had not checked and that he had not been consulted, that he had not done any checking, that he was lying in the proceedings and being judged again in his favor, and that is what is actually not well defined by this law, regardless of what he was promoted, remains the possibility that someone should be slandered, disgraced, inflicting a difficult reputation of honor and further spreading disinformation that has no reality in it. Just from an anonymous application that came as God's... an individual. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The next job should be for a person who has experienced so much as a criminal charges against a unknown perpetrator or a applicant of a false criminal record to find out who he is, or the State's Attorney's office, and ate a donkey wolf. In fact, this law makes it easier for journalists to actually do more intents and intentions to continue to do what is illegal and what serves only for daily-political purposes or for, as I said, defaming someone, causing insults, applying discredition and harm to an individual, especially in such political turmoils as in such options of pre-election activities used by individual parties, and then individuals journalists for their own personal accounts. I believe that judges as well as the judiciary in their practice will recognize, well assess, and act as an independent judiciary in those cases which certainly, with all the characteristics of the crime under Article 200, also have a mark in Articles 2 and 148, features of the criminal act of disgrace. Although it is no longer a prescribed prison sentence but only a fine, I believe that by proving it itself in such a procedure, it can certainly be expected that it should be defined or in clarifications to give what it is and when it is possible to prove that it was a strict intention that it was not informing the public but that it was strictly directed against a man and an individual who did not participate in these activities but puts a burden on him something for which there is no basis. It can't be a transfer of information, it's certainly a pure intention. And in such procedures, it is certainly difficult to find legal norms that would define how this can be proven or whether it is biased or not to interpret an individual's judge. To believe in judges, as we can see, there are those who ended up in custody. It's not even in the judiciary, it's all very clean. It is not all clear to them and many times to their decisions that are on the verge or on the wire of the law or article of the law to make or not to anyone’s advantage or against someone. I believe that this Penal Code will bring much better effect in all cases, especially economic activities and everything that has hurt workers, that many will be warned by employers, owners, directors, and all those who perform the functions of private property management that they have a relationship with state grants, but also by workers' salaries different, better quality, more timely. That there will also be bankruptcy, as well as liquidations that many times experience that have been done only to blacken out or to hide in fact all the corrupt activities that have been carried out through the company pumping and money laundering and everything else that has happened in individual companies. We have witnessed many times, but evidence and legal grounds for the right to pursue such were not either bankrupt managers and liquidators equally helped in procedures to never prove their guilt. I therefore welcome the adoption of this law, and it would be even better if it were possible for some amendments to improve this crime of slander, but also shame when and in what cases and how it is proved that it was intended for someone's slander or for someone's shame. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80297	Thank you. Replications. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80298	Well, here's a colleague, Djakic, mentioning the need to sanction and punish those who, behold, do not meet their obligations towards the state and workers. One of the companies that is relatively close to you, which is in great difficulty and what the media are reporting very poorly is KIO Orahovica. In Orahovica, it seems that they will soon have to stop paying workers because the situation is catastrophic. But what's interesting? The workers wonder, and where are those who receive great wages and do not even know where is the Nutcracker? One of them is also the biggest SDP defenders strategist Ante Kotromanovic who has long received a large salary in Orahovica, living room, car and other, why? Only because he let Stjepan Mesic go to Alk in Sinj, and in return he set up money from Orahovica because he normally had, like Mesic, the most powerful influence. So, under which all the articles of this... Well, there was, you have in the media a lot of that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ask the workers two, three days ago they also called Mesic and Kotromanović where are they now? Therefore, what articles of this law can be applied here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80299	Replication response, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who set a bright example on the scene today, a bright example of crime, corruption, and everything else that the workers have described. The workers are the best witnesses. They wrote to the State's Attorney's Office, they wrote to all the institutions of the Croatian state and to this Parliament. However, as if they had stopped investigating or as if they were investigating all those you listed, so did our colleague who had been on the payroll, as well as the former president of the state, who certainly had unlawfully intervened under this Penal Code in the acquisition of credits, in the acquisition of all the benefits that were under the management of KIO Orahovica i.e. HBOR loans, HBOR loans and the Agency for Development and Employment were certainly purchased ownership of KIO Orahovica. In the second segment, what workers write and hard plates are sold in Serbia, at 20 times lower prices, to be imported to Croatia at real prices expressed in euro. For 7 kuna is exported and for 7 euros is imported. Today they are competing to buy the Orahovica those who have done this maneuver and there are no concrete cases, in fact their own police have done their part. The state's attorney's office, I don't know who he's waiting for. Even though the actors are very well-known. They are defined, visible, they are in pre-examination actions as clearly stated but only as a representative from Podravska County I would like to say that the more up-to-date they are doing as quickly as they are in cases which are against Croatian defenders in cases such as against Croatian citizens, who have already been prosecuted and already convicted for much less.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80301	Mr. Representative Ivo Scissor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, fellow Djakic, for touching the interesting thing, that is how lunch is brought out, how slanders are brought out, and how little is a match for it, or for it is essentially not a match. I think this law will contribute to more answering, but I see the problem in the long-term procedures because if you've sued someone for slander and the procedure is conducted for at least five years at the municipal court, so the appeal to the County Court, so it's back to the municipal court, then I think it's hard to get to the real truth and that the truth when it's found that it's quite late for someone who's defamatory. So we expect court practice to show that things have to happen faster, that's one key problem. And I will also note that it happens in our country in Croatia that people who owe millions of dollars to the state, not even workers, to the state according to the data of the tax administration that are known, and yet the ordinary members of the Kukurik coalition do nothing to them, so they are not subject to any procedure, yet close the crafts, opening up the company still working. Or close the company and open the crafts still work, and those debts remain no one sanctions or treats them, and then it is a pity to the Croatian economy, then we wonder what it is and how it is and we are where we are. I think those in charge and in charge from the police to the DORH and the data is exact should act then the situation will be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80303	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80304	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague, I've been doing all this in the Republic of Croatia myself. So given the company KIO ceramics Orahovica and 7 kuna, there are probably indications from the plague that money comes from buying apartments, villas and other things that were on the real estate market and you don't know where the money came from. 7 kuna for vacation in Brijuni, 7 kuna for ceramic tiles, 7 kuna for Croatia and that is the formula 3 times 7 21 used by the coalition. You wear thongs, you go to the vang, with a warship or a boat, and that's the honesty that the Kukuriku coalition is talking about. They do not speak of where they are and how they are, nor of those who have helped in all that is mentioned in this law as a mediator and who has gained and who has likely benefited from it. Our dear Stipe would probably be able to answer if they asked him, and I don't know why they don't ask him who loaned him 2 million kunas, we're interested in it as the Croatian public. Where and how? If it were me or Buric, or any other one would certainly already be one column of police around the house, the apartment, they would already be implemented, they would already be newspaper articles that would not only involve us but half the family or the whole family and it would certainly be known whether we received it legally or illegally. There are certainly different standards and criteria for certain individuals in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80305	Thank you. I interrupt the session, continue at 3:00 with debate Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80306	Dear MPs and MPs continue with the afternoon session. An individual debate. As said first in line is the honourable representative Krunoslav Markovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80307	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's like yesterday a little debate went away and I think we said a lot, but here's an emphasis on some of the newer things that have been presented today, which the minister has presented. The fact is that there is no volunteer work in Croatia, unlike some Western countries where people volunteer a lot with people with disabilities, I don't know, and I don't know what kind of arrangement, but mostly with people. And it seems to me that by this law we're going to get to the forced volunteers who, at 2 o'clock, are going to have to volunteer or work for 4 hours here, and there's really good will for both of us, there's a lot to be done. In fact, it's known that our prison facilities aren't very high, although many hope to fill large stadiums, lock up concentration and jail, but it won't be. So here this is commendable that you can substitute here this time... Although it would be nice to look at how much the two-hour thing was used. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remember, so little that prehistory, long ago, how everyone was invited to the meetings when something was going on, and then everyone had to, the schools were breaking up with work, factories, companies, and they were gathering, so there was some kind of case that someone I didn't know killed seemed like some kind of a boat... or something like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now one group of young men stood by and the crowds of people on the square in Virovitica I remember, yes, there were several thousand people present, shouting all down the boats, we didn't even know what a boat was yet, which is this. Someone said what would happen now if someone had said that someone said they lived the boats, so whoever killed the other. So, after that, there was an arrest, 15 days of volunteer work. So these were young intellectuals, right, unsolicited work unloading wood around the center, working like this. So, and then it was applied. But in another form, with prison, with humiliation and so forth. So this here really takes for those violations that maybe it's not good for people to go to jail because they can do far less there and cost more. It is precisely this volunteering that I commend and I think that we should discuss it a little more often, refer to it, and that this could be used well. The second thing that is most important in this law is the punishment for not paying the workers' wages. We see it from day to day, and it was. Here's one, I know in my time, one of our neighbors out there from St. Sunday, otherwise there was an entrepreneur, a relatively well-known entrepreneur, who was the president of the SDP only took people for two months for trial work. After those two months, he didn't pay anybody anything. He chased them away and told them if they objected to him that he wouldn't get a job anywhere. So there were these people 10 years ago and 8 years ago, 9 years ago, so that's the time I'm talking about. So, then it could have been done without any punishment while today's sentences should still be drastic. Because if the company really stands so badly and if everyone stands badly, including the owners of the firm and the managers, the management continues, then it can be understood. There are many difficulties, competition often runs over companies, but if, and it's not paid out of obstetrics, while living on a very high foot, driving in yachts and let's say a yacht is stranded, and 5 thousand kunas have to chop off yachts, it's very difficult. And repairs and all that expensive stuff, that's hard. And by the way, here's a five-month salary delay. It's clearly about my beloved politician, Radimir Cacic, who is actually the most provoking of the whole election story. Why? Because if he's five months behind in payment he pays his workers and then counts like this, probably, yeah, this new law will come into effect on 01.01.2013, and in that year, thank God if I come to power, I'll take care of even more of the powers he announces in the new government "coukuriku coalition" is what they're called, that my companies bloom again. And the flowers, and we know very well how they got the job. I have to repeat this yet it probably wasn't punishable at the time, if KONING got to rebuild the job of 7 million kuna anex added more work for 10 million kuna. Well then a few more annexes of any suspicious, suspicious morality, and so it was given, the companies could calm down nicely and bloom nicely. And the fact is that those years will work intensively on it. And the powers spoken of by our dear politician, is Ratko, by these powers, I don't know how to register myself as the company's daughter of the KONING Group. Because that's actually how it could really work best. So I mentioned here both Orahovic and elsewhere where the company's problem is very large and where wages are increasingly questionable and therefore the fingers of politicians really need to be removed from such companies. And interestingly, the longest fingers right now have those who fight against it the most, right? From the largest moral vertical in the Croatian Stipa Mesic, which has so far been dipped in all the affairs that exist in us, so here are Cačić, Kotromanović and Linic and similar. So, I agree that we should take great care of the workers, fight for the workers, that these workers must get paid what they have done and have normal living conditions, but we also need to pursue all those who say they have paid the fine. We have fined Sisak-Moslavina County in time at the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest because it has failed to pay. What about this five thousand kuna salary? It does not belong, because the esteemed Cacic is no longer an official whether he is but few should deal with him if no one else then his workers, however, he does not have a lot of workers do not fear it won't make a lot of people suffer, it is an engineering firm with few workers who hired numerous cooperatives and they flew everywhere in such a way clearly knows who bought the cream. And in the whole story, I think that the application of such a law should certainly show good results. In fact, with the help of a union that should protect workers, I think this law might make the workers a little easier. Of course, if we go back to volunteering. Volunteering is wonderful, a few days ago we read that Rijeka is actually a very abandoned city. If they showed all those there to punish in Rijeka, Rijeka would be the purest city. If we go from Obersnel, then Jovanovic, then on. So, there are ways to make our cities better, to prepare everything for tourists' arrival, and not to offer them as some countries free selling drugs, as our dear lost friends here on this side promise that it would be good to carry a backpack of some kind, a backpack, so now someone has a little greater need for someone a little less, but in any case they could find an excuse in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80308	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First honorary representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Markovanovic would be very interesting to tell if somewhere in the world there are examples of companies being administered to various law firms while you're in office, then you're basically not giving a job to your company, but you're giving the company to which you've given management to some law firm, etc., but I'll repeat what I said this morning that the High Commercial Court of all companies have been seducing through the OLB then they can tell you as much as they want their companies to manage this or that would be clearly recorded by those companies owners and through which companies that are owned by some others are getting jobs from state firms. And I think those who teach us moral lessons, who live out of $5.6,000 a month, and everyone else is dishonest, they're fair. Those who ride in expensive cars and yachts would simply have to finally answer where it comes from and not to go through the system so that someone through the media attacks this or that, when it turns out it's not true, ate the donkey wolf, which our people would say. However, anyone who has been attacked in such a way remains a stain on his face and on his family, however, no one cares about him or his family. But I repeat, I keep repeating to myself the question of who was in the High Court of Commerce in order to stop the government's decision that all companies must be registered through the OIB by the end of last year, I think that in Croatia today would be a much clearer situation, because under the old law, society with limited liability could register 5.6 owners don't know how many, according to only one, these other 5 are nowhere, they regulated their rights and obligations by some kind of mutual agreement, and then what you're talking about can happen. Also, if a person proposes and claims that he will solve everything if he puts wages as a criminal offence, and at the same time, they have characters in their ranks who don't pay employees what it is but a simple farce and political demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80310	Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80311	Well, I trust an esteemed colleague that it must have been in someone's best interest. It's not just about this guy's companies. We had to pass a law on electronic media where media owners had to be discovered, they were completely hidden. You don't know until a while ago we had an editor-in-chief's case, say I didn't name the morning list, which every one of your columns started yesterday I was with Eve for lunch, yesterday I was with Eve for dinner and stuff like that. To hit HDZ the hardest today if it was his boss who suggested it to him himself, or I don't know how that works, it's facts. If they knew who the bosses were, it'd be a lot easier, because media bosses are very determined by the politics of lists, newspapers, TV houses and the like. The same thing about the company, you'd be very surprised who owns the company and why. And as far as handing over to a lawyer, we've been studying the Coning Group case, they're interestingly handed over neatly at the beginning of the year, but already the same year at the 12th month they've been sent back. So, as much as we pointed out, the man turned out to be innocent, we had a big toe waving all the time, said the state's attorney had no basis for this. So now they're living the basics.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80312	Thank you very much. And another replica of the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will join this debate with your colleague Markovanovic, we have just received lists of members for the selection of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. It is a very important law and a very important thing to vote on, which must be and is precisely important and related to this Penal Code Article 256 which speaks of tax or customs evasion. Why the opposition doesn't want to vote or think at all, so it's clearly not in their best interest to tell them where they're coming from, so someone who has 6 thousand or 5 thousand salaries can show up, Malta is at a minimum, but the same thing you said, own, have, serve and boast. Equally, a friend can borrow not 2 million from a friend like his colleague Djakic said, but 6 million kuna to buy an apartment, so no one asks how. It is therefore important to vote this out, and now it is up to the citizens of Croatia and all of us, for which, a large part, of the whole opposition, which is neither there nor will vote for this. They're not interested in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80314	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Krunoslav Markovinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80315	Here's to saying that apart from this list or that list, so they go a number of candidates go, and always that they resented us for not being in favour of some agreement, the agreement, is always open to the list, so there's a lot to be done until the vote. It bothers me more that this won't and this won't be voted if we don't have a quorum, because our opposition SDP and HNS parties on each third page will find themselves here and normally will try to make the most of it effort to keep this law from passing and I think it should go right for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80316	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate, and we're up for a distinguished representative, Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80317	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. We've already heard a lot about the new law, so I'm going to focus my discussion on an area of drugs related to unauthorized possession, production and trade. One of the reasons I'm going to talk about this part of the law lies in the fact that drug abuse crimes are 15% of all convictions. The crime of drug abuse is divided into two articles. The first incriminates unauthorized possession, production and trade, and the second incriminating the possibility of drug use. It is also important that this law is in line with the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse, so no longer talking about drug preparations or talking about intoxicating drugs, but only using the term drugs. This brings out newspapers in the dissemination of applications and substances that are banned in sport or doping. The obligation set out in the final provisions of the Ministry of Health and Social Care is to draw up a list containing doping funds that are prohibited not only in sport but also outside sport. The sanction has been reduced as we have also heard in previous discussions from 1 year to 6 months because it wants to punish a socially unacceptable lifestyle. Such acts are not usually punishable or punishable only in violation or simply as minor crimes. We have also heard and supported this attitude of drug possession as a criminal offence, because it is aimed at sanctioning socially unacceptable behaviour, so even though there are requirements for our legal system to be applied in such a way as to mitigate this norm. If the argument for the burden on the system is these acts because 73% are convicted of possession then the possibility of rejecting criminal charges or giving up prosecution if the perpetrator is subject to mandatory treatment based on addiction is opened. In addition, there is the possibility of applying the Institute of Insignificant Crime, so it is necessary to keep the possession of drugs in the area of crime. Therefore, the law clearly sets out whether drugs are intended for sale or not. It incriminates and unauthorized production, processing, import and export of drugs when that drug is not intended for sale. It is also a wider range of shops that are made to be further cited as imports, exports and transport. The proposed duration of the sentence is now made by the degree of action by its weight. Qualifying circumstances that have not yet existed in the law are sales of children, sales in certain places, or the perpetrator is a specific person or is used for the purpose of placing on the market by a child or the work of a serving person in the public service which makes the work more difficult. Furthermore, stricter punishment for the organisers of the network of dealers is incriminating and a long-term prison is possible if the work is committed in the criminal association system. The novelty is the introduction of the cause of death from the climate as special qualitative circumstances and predicts a sentence of 5 and even 20 years in prison. The law clarifies substances that can be used for the manufacture of drugs, precursors and other solvents and chemicals that the perpetrator must know that equipment, material and material are intended for unauthorized cultivation and drug production. The new law removes concerns about the penality of cultivation in order to define the production of drugs that include both the cultivation of plants and plants from which drugs can be obtained. It is perfectly logical that, with the withdrawal of drugs and the means to prepare them, those substances, plants, etc. are foreseen. As well as the means to transport them. The existing provisions have also been extended to non-sportable substances. I welcome the paper in the law that it is a qualified form although the work is done in education or educational institution or in its immediate vicinity or in a criminal institution. Likewise, if the work was committed by a public servant, priest, doctor, social worker, teacher, raiser, or coach, he thus abused his position. I focused my debate on this area because I am convinced that it is intruding and that there is repercusion in all segments of life by destroying those on which the world remains, and these are our young. This law therefore protects young people, protects Croatian families, protects every young life. The message is that the greatest evil is one nation. The new quality of this law, which she spoke of in one replica, is also a crime against marriage, family and children who are in line with the Family Law. New crimes of forced marriage, injuries to the child’s privacy, and a crime of domestic violence has been wiped out in order to overlap with violations against domestic violence by imposing qualitative forms when it is committed to a member of the family. It is also a broader definition of a family member than was the case in the current law. The law does not now share children under the age of 14 and does not make the difference between younger and older minors but is considered to be a person under the age of 18. The new Penal Code has made a positive step in the overall adoption and environment in which laws are passed throughout Croatia because the working group has maintained a permanent consultation process both with the professional public and with civil society. It certainly guarantees the quality of the law for which I will support the adoption of this important law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80318	Thank you. There's an individual debate coming up. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here I will briefly look back on this final bill of criminal proceedings. First of all, I want to say that I support the adoption of this law and I support all the debates that my colleagues have raised so far and I think these discussions have been very useful and very good. In this bill, there are several crimes in which I find it particularly necessary to protect persons with disabilities. I also thank the promoter on this occasion for the fact that most of the remarks made between the two readings to the Government by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities were accepted. Some of these remarks were not accepted and this was very detailed by the applicant and why and here I thank for this exhaustive explanation, and, of course, the Ombudsman for people with disabilities could explain to people with disabilities why some of its objections were not accepted. A few crimes like I said here, in them I see in a special way that it was necessary to protect people with disabilities. In this regard, I have proposed here and given seven amendments, which I expect the applicant will consider in detail and accept them because these are amendments of character to be there, so in those crimes where particularly vulnerable groups are mentioned, so the severity of the crime applies particularly to those groups, such as children, people of older age. I think that is where people with disabilities should be classified, just as the applicant has accepted in the crime of raping the lawyer's proposal for persons with disabilities, so in the crime of physical injury, serious physical injury, especially serious physical injury, coercion, kidnapping, threats, I think it is necessary to do the same. When, before I referred these amendments, I would like to say here that, in detail, after some committees, I talked to the motionors and wanted to explain in some way, since these qualifications of persons with disabilities were not particularly highlighted in the previous law, I wanted to say, and I think we understand very well that this Penal Code needs to be brought into line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And when we include disability or disabled persons in these crimes, I want to say here that there is no fear that this will apply to a large number of people. In part, I can understand that at first it was thought that, however, Croatia is just getting a unique body of art that will for the first time in Croatia improve precisely the disability that has not been so far. And when someone gets a solution that a disabled person trusts me it will really refer to a severe disability because according to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, disability is no longer a physical injury as it could have been. So, someone who has so far received a solution from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute that has 30, 40 or 50% of physical damage has been included in the category of persons with disabilities according to all the rules. This will no longer be possible from now on, and it was actually one of the first steps that we had to take, and in order to bring all other legal regulations in line with the Convention. For example, one example. In the case of a crime of coercion or threats or, anyway, or in the case of a crime of serious bodily injury, children are, therefore, a criminal offence is immediately more difficult if committed to the child. You must know that one child, of course, I support that, in order not to be misunderstood that I think it is not necessary, one child of 16 can and most often thank God is physically more capable than almost every person with disabilities and can be protected in a more adequate way than a person with disabilities. I could find more of these works in this law, but in a good deal with civil society, so with a roof organization, a community of people with disabilities and a lawyer, so with those people who really know disability, not to say people with disabilities but disability. They know what it is. We agreed here to do it really, really propose for those crimes where people with disabilities are the least able to defend themselves. It's these six crimes and another amendment where there's been an error in the payment of contributions. So, where there's talk of pay default, which is detailed here by fellow Kunst and the other MPs. The contribution to employment of people with disabilities fell out of those contributions to pension, health employment. So here is the article I have made an amendment because the contribution to the employment of persons with disabilities is a mandatory contribution that the employer must pay under the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. So here I finally point out once again that I support the adoption of this law, and I think that the promoter has made a really good proposal. I expect here and please on behalf of you right now 500,000 people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, physical damage. If we accept these qualifications based on what I spoke about earlier, which is a unique body of art, the number of people with disabilities will surely fall in the Republic of Croatia and there will be no more 500,000, so those with physical damage will not enter that number. I am asking the Secretary of State, that you consider these amendments in detail and accept them, because we think that in this way we will really improve the quality of this regulation, this law and make it easier for all judges who judge such crimes that they do not have to go into extra art and that we simply make it easier for them to do the job. Because today, trust me, fellow judges, we often have a situation where judges call us people who deal with people with disabilities to ask us what it is, whether it's someone with disabilities or not. Thank you very much, and here I expect, and I believe my amendment will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80320	Thank you. It's our guest, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80321	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After a full day's debate, I already praised this law in the opening part of the club, but unfortunately because it has more than 380 articles and a large opening part did not arrive in the debate in 15 minutes away from the general section in which I commended the institutes. So, one full reform of criminal policy, the Institute of Obsolescence, etc. I don't want to say it again. But I would warn of several new crimes that may not have even been observed in this Penal Code, which confirms that this Penal Code has indeed been systematically considered as I have said all the new technologies and ways of attacking the protected social goods that we have protected so far, but those who have hurt them have been to say more advanced in the ways of these injuries. And therefore, in the existing Penal Code, there is neither a description of those actions that would be incriminating. Here's just a few. For example, even when we said that this Penal Code is indeed thoroughly in line with all the international documents of the United Nations through the Council of Europe and the European Union. But here are some interesting new crimes against humanity and human dignity. For example, financing terrorism, trading in parts of the human body and human traps, which was a lot to talk about, and there was no incrimination anywhere. Cloning and changing the human genome, banring the mixing of human sex cells with animal cells. So far, it's been in the Law on Medical Insemination. Of course, in that head as well as so far genocide, war crime, human trafficking, terrorism are in full compliance with the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Genocide Crime and the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Here in one other chapter, these are crimes against life and the body is noticeable and I really commend the promoter and working group because it is evident that the protection of the weakest above all children, including women who are mostly victims of domestic violence, has been thoroughly taken care of. In this sense, it is good to warn of a new qualified form of serious murder. First of all, the penalty for murder has been increased to 20 years. Clearly, privileged and qualified forms of murder are distinguished. So the new qualified form of a serious murder, the murder of a family member who has been abused for a long time, ended with death in the end. A brand-new crime was also introduced, which is the mutilation of female sexual organs. Therefore, in accordance with the draft Council of Europe Convention on Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. This may be strange, but this clearly determines the inauguration of such actions regardless of the customs and traditions of some groups, and given the globalisation and migration of peoples in Europe and in the world then it is possible that such things happen that are not in our tradition but are needed in view of globalisation processes and sanctioning them. A new, new execution offence is also being introduced. This crime which is now called execution involves three privileged crimes of murder, which are murder on the count, murder and execution on request. So, in mach murder, the privileged situation is now expanding to long - term abuse situations. So the abuse that causes the long-term suffering from which the victim finds, or is so under pressure of suffering and abuse that he finds no other way out, but to kill the abuser, that is, a crime, that is, murder, but belongs to privileged forms of that murder. Also a new qualified form of murder, in accordance with the Convention against Violence against Women and Family Violence, is the work when it is committed towards a child, according to a family member or when it is committed out of hatred. Now, I would also like to say on this trail of truly state-of-the-art approaches to crimes against sexual freedom that in this chapter, indeed, a new way is being questioned by the right to sexual self-determination. Therefore, according to the draft Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight of Violence against Women and Family Violence, all parties, future parties and the Convention are required to incriminate any non-consensual sexual relations or to lead to non-consensual sexual relations, which means that no longer only the criminal act of rape is incriminating, so forcing someone to have sexual relations with the use of force, of course it remains prevented, but a new act of sexual intercourse is being introduced without consent. So any sexual relationship with someone who did not agree to it is punishable for the other side, if it is a evasive delusion, then the punishment will be somewhat milder, but it is therefore clearly defined that this consent exists if the person has decided by her will to enter into sex and sexual intercourse with it, and more importantly that it was able to bring and express such will, which means that it has not been used, regardless of the force applied, that no one's current inability to reason, any drunkenness, drugs, or any intellectual weakness in the sense of a handicap has been exploited, and that no force, threat, abuse of position, etc., etc. In this part of another newspaper that, in addition to this crime of rape, when force and sexual intercourse without consent are used, the qualitative forms of these crimes are determined, so when the severe punishment is prevented, if the work is committed according to a member of the family, according to the victim particularly vulnerable to age, illness, addiction, disability, pregnancy, etc. in a particularly cruel way out of hate and together or with more perpetrators. Also in this section of the paper is certainly compared to the prostitution where it is incriminating, so the user of services is punished if he has paid for such services, and if he knew or had had to know about the above circumstances, and that means that someone else is making a profit by force or threat, fraud, fraud, abuse of power to provide sexual services, and also punishable, every behaviour is punishable if another person is lured, recruited or encouraged to provide sexual services and thus is organised to provide. What still seems important to me, and it may seem to me that by that provision, in relation to prostitution without influence on the existence of a crime, the circumstances are whether a person who is being lured, recruited, encouraged or exploited by it or who has already dealt with it. So in any case, whoever encourages or forces someone to act like that will be punished, even if a provider of such services agrees. Here's just one segment we haven't talked about today, we've talked a lot about crimes against honor and reputation in economic crime, where the same improvements are very good, and we've all commended them, but here's another chapter where significant shifts have been made. I'd say it's another brand-new crime, which is intrusive behavior, so incrimination that hasn't happened so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80322	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80323	I'll be right there. And it's interesting because it incriminates the behavior in which someone is constantly harassing you, stalking you, etc., and making unwanted contact, and as a qualitative form, it's if it's done by an ex-marriage partner, same-sex partner, and if it doesn't give you peace even after the decomposition of such a community, so now and so punished, that kind of behavior is incriminating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80324	Thank you. 5 minutes on behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And finally on behalf of the promoter, distinguished Tatjana Vučetic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80325	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the first thing I'd like to thank really all the esteemed MPs and MPs for the exhaustive presentation, and at the support of this law, we've worked hard, carefully, systematically, the result is visible, and if I can get one of my little personal observations, I believed we've made, I believe we've made a very good and quality law, and your debate today convinced me that that's the case. Thank you very much for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80326	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80327	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 866, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislatives Committee and MP Ljubica Lukačić. During the debate, the proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the representative to take note of the amendments made by Ms Ljubica Lukacic, who first refers to Article 117.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80328	Mr. President, we accept all of Ljubica Lukacic's amendment MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80329	Article 118, 119, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80330	At all.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80331	All amendments. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Penal Code, where amendments are included, of course, and this law requires at least 77 for. So 77 for. Please engage and vote and see if we voted the way we wanted to. The result is that this law, along with the amendments adopted, was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80332	We move to point 6 - Final proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman, second reading, P.Z. No. 833 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to the second reading of the law, shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted jointly by representatives Emil Tomljanovic and Ana Lovrin and Ivo Grbic. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zoran Piculjan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80333	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman, a law which is also not as large as the Penalty by its own size, but by its own importance also deserves a few words of reasoning, I will try to give it to you as soon as possible by respecting our time. What is important is that the constitutional novel of July this year strengthens the position of the Ombudsman in relation to the protection of human rights and the promotion of human rights. The law that was before you was tasked with legalizing this new position of the Ombudsman, using the position that the Constitution gives him to strengthen the protection and promotion of human rights in the Republic of Croatia at the normative and then at the real level. Of course, it was also necessary to replace a more modern regulation of the 1992 Law, the Law on the Ombudsman, where procedural provisions were at least lacking, provisions governing the handling of the Ombudsman's staff in relation to complaints from citizens. Its purpose was therefore to: first of all to strengthen the powers of the attorney general, to strengthen the independence of the institution of the attorney general, its stronger public presence and, of course, defined rights and obligations of the attorney general in the promotion and protection of human rights. As regards strengthening powers, it can be said that they are strongly strengthened by this law and that in all the debates, regardless of which they were contradictory regarding solutions and the concept offered by the Proposer is no one, almost no one disputed. First of all, the delirious vacancy of the attorney general is strengthened, spreading to the judicial authorities, to all the state bodies. It shall be given full availability, accessibility of all information and shall also be given mandatory cooperation in the making of rules in the field of protection of human rights. The participation of the Croatian Parliament in the work of the Croatian Parliament related to this matter is also mandatory. In addition, the strength of his recommendations is strengthened, by the instrumentation that this law has very precisely defined. In relation to its independence, it is further discussed in the Constitution by this law in a way that is now required for its election by the supra-almost majority of all representatives of the Croatian Parliament, a public call for a new occupier and, of course, he is a strong institute that is not only a formal-legal nature that is introduced into the law, which is a reputation, a reputation is sought, the authority of the person applying to be a protector and promoter of human rights, the first protector and promoter of human rights in the Republic. In addition, solutions related to the immunity of the Ombudsman and solutions related to conflict of interest have been introduced which are also mandatory for him here. In the third part, as regards the strengthening of the presence of the Ombudsman in the public, and above all also the strength of the report submitted by the Advocate General and the methodology of the report submitted by the Ombudsman to this High House, it will now be integrated and will include all the protection and promotion of human rights and human rights violations in all segments of the actions of the current civil defenders and the former, i.e. still present special defenders. What is important is the introduction in this part of the Council of the Public Ombudsman by the respectable and respectable experts of the academic community of the non-governmental sector to assist the Ombudsman in the exercise of his legislative and constitutional powers. In addition, in accordance with the recommendations in Chapter 23, the staff and professional staff attorney is strengthened by joining the Centre for Human Rights in the Office of the Public Advocates. The promoter here accepted an integrated concept of human rights protection in such a way that the following principle of indivisibility of protection and promotion of human rights actually proposed the merger of the institution of the attorney general and special advisers in the institution of the attorney general in the Office of the Ombudsman. Here, the promoter believes that this is actually the most appropriate concept in the Republic of Croatia which is suitable for our opportunities, our opportunities and which is comparatively well founded and which is very common in European legislation. It is different from the current solution but it cannot be said that it is weaker than the current solution, in fact by a series of its institutes that this law prescribes both the strength of both the attorney general and the special defenders. First of all, the special defenders are now acting under this proposal by the Deputy Advocate General within the framework of their section of the law and defined by law and are very similar and equal to the decisions of the special law so far. But they, by synergy and constitutional position of the attorney general, actually seem to have us, seems to be the proponent, and a stronger authority than they've had so far because they're using, drawing strength, the authority of the constitutional position of the attorney general. Their independence with this solution is not, in the opinion of the Proposer, reduced to a lower level. They remain independent of the executive authority from any form of pressure on their actions, but they have a repeat strong cap of the Ombudsman and coordination in the protection of human and rights and promotions that have so far been missing in practice. Finally, the promoter believes that this concept does not have to be, will not be applied lightly from 01.01.2012 and therefore offers a solution to adaptation for 6 or 7 months, so with 1 July this law will come into force and all these organisational changes in this interregnum will be possible. What is important to point out and what sometimes seems different when it is emotionally debated and without arguments and without strong arguments in public or professional debate is that this concept does not reduce the degree of protection and promotion of human rights of any group of Croatian citizens in any way. On the contrary, it seems to us that this concept is suitable for Croatia and suitable for today's level of protection of human rights in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80334	Thank you. And will the committee's reporters take the floor? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the chairman of the Committee, the esteemed Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80335	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership held at its 60th session on 27 September this year discussed the final draft law on the Ombudsman, which was sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee discussed that act in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. The Committee held a written opinion by the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities, on the act in question. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed Law places emphasis on the proactive role of the Ombudsman as a promoter of human rights and in order to strengthen the promotional role of the proposed merger of the Human Rights Centre with the Office of the Public Advocates. The final draft law provides for the merger of existing specialised lawyers with the Ombudsman's office, thus improving the effectiveness of the proceedings. The debate expressed concern that the merger of specialised defenders will weaken the existing level of protection of human rights. In the debate, members of the Committee supported the adoption of this law by a majority of votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80336	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. The first one was a respected representative, Romana Jerekovic. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Then the HDZ Club is Honorable Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80337	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the Final Bill on the Ombudsman. We supported this bill in the first reading because we believe that, indeed, after the Law on the Ombudsman passed in 1992, it is time for it to be updated, in line with international regulations that have been adopted in the meantime and to establish that it is expanding with all the necessary parts of the Law, so here is what the Secretary of State said the procedural provisions, etc. From 1992 to today, the status of the Ombudsman has been strengthened by the adoption of the most recent constitutional amendments, in which his proactive role has been highlighted in some way, by the very promotion of the constitutional provision, which says that the Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, not as so far for the protection of human rights and freedoms, but in the first place for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, the laws and international laws on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia. This means that they will not only determine injuries and then act on their protection but will primarily work to promote or respect human rights before they happen. Article 2(2) of the Constitution also extends its scope, so the Constitution says that anyone can appeal to the Ombudsman if he considers that the illegal or irregular work of the state bodies is in breach of his constitutional or legal rights by all bodies of local and regional self-government and bodies with public authority. Therefore, in this respect, it was necessary to coordinate and regulate the Law on the Ombudsman, and the new law established and confirmed that the pro-active role of the attorney-general as a promoter of fundamental human rights, and then the final proposal and regulations that the Ombudsman monitors the situation, indicates the need to protect fundamental human rights, performs research-analytical activities, develops and maintains a database and documentation timely and regular information to the public, and the interested participants, educates the public, actively encourages and maintains cooperation with civil society organisations, international organisations, and scientific research institutions. In that sense, the role of the Ombudsman in information information through the media, through the Internet, through the organisation of public stands, debates, publication, reports, etc. has been significantly improved. In this regard, just in order to strengthen the defence attorney's role, this proposal provides for the merger of several institutions, now existing independent institutions. First of all, in terms of the promotional role, it is envisaged to bring the human rights centre together with the Office of the Ombudsman. I think that's good because in this way and the existing Centre for the Promotion of Human Rights, which has so far achieved a number of projects, will in some way strengthen this current activity and activity, and on the other hand, by taking over the Centre and the persons who are there with a certain experience in promoting human rights, staffing and teaming up and the Office of the People's Attorney General. In addition, the Final Law also provides that the Ombudsman can set up advice on the human rights of the Ombudsman as his advisory body, which is considering and proposing strategic guidelines for the promotion of human rights, and in some ways this advice would be a public forum that would contribute to the dialogue of important social factors. Therefore, every day could be a question of promoting and protecting human rights subject to broad public debate within expert bodies, as well as broad social debates and with NGOs and all social factors. This new legislative solution also includes the special powers of the attorney-general, who was given the Law on Discussion of Declarations, as well as the obligations of the Republic of Croatia by signing a university protocol with the Convention against Torture and other cruel inhuman and humiliating procedures or punishments where the tasks of the Protocol were also given to the Ombudsman. As we have told this final proposal in the Law on the Ombudsman, procedural provisions on how to deal with complaints of citizens have been contained, the General Administrative Procedure Act has been subsidiously applied, but special procedural provisions have been laid down here first, so it is foreseen that the Ombudsman is acting on the basis of the complaints of citizens and also on his own initiative by the Ombudsman. So, also with the final proposal, and this has caused the most debate in the public but also a number of objections from the current specialised lawyers. Therefore, the final draft law provides for the merger of existing professional and administrative capacities of specialising lawyers' offices with the Ombudsman, thus improving mutual co-operation, and thus efficiency under the representations of citizens. There have been a lot of complaints from certain social groups that in this way the good protection given to individual groups through their specialised lawyers, so the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, the Ombudsman for children, the lawyer for gender equality, that their protection with this merger would actually weaken. We hold that not what is most important to us in the HDZ Club from which we observe this final bill is whether any social group will be reduced by its human rights or the possibility of protecting these human rights. In view of the constitutional position of the Ombudsman's staff in the event of the merger of these defence attorneys, we are opinions when the existing attorneys or lawyers become deputies of the Ombudsman's staff that they will actually be able to act even more strongly because as deputies they will also get a constitutional position towards the international community, and also, according to the social community in Croatia, they will be able to act more strongly, because every special human right is in fact a general human right and it is difficult to find the first frontier between them. So, it should also be said here that since 2008 and this is also one argument not to merge but to argue that no human rights protection position or the protection intensity of human rights will be reduced. Since 2008, therefore, the Ombudsman has enjoyed the status of A, the institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights acquired by the International Co-ordination Committee for the National Institutions for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Therefore, in no way diminishing the competence and expertise and the excellent work of specialised lawyers so far, we believe that with this same quality and same March they should continue to work in the framework of the Office of the Public Advocates, and with the constitutional position of the Ombudsman they will also gain greater meaning in relation to this international provision. Joining the Ombudsman will also improve the use of an existing network of local offices in a way that will achieve technical and logistics resources because we know that some specialised lawyers now have local offices around Croatia, some do not. In this way these existing local offices and, of course, they should try to expand that network, then they will uniquely open to the Office of the Attorney General. It will also perform together on unique websites where all general and specific information about particularly sensitive social groups will be found. And citizens will eventually have a simpler and easier access to all the necessary information, but they will know where to turn. From the public's point of view, it may be difficult in some cases to assess whether it is a threat to some general human right, a specific right, to which to address whether a specialised defender or a crackhead, in this way will be in one place with an information system and perhaps easier communication towards citizens. For all of these reasons, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law, of course, with all provisions on how to elect a civil defender who remains in the Croatian Parliament's domain. So, the Croatian Parliament will elect a civil defender on the basis of a public call, in fact the defenders are looking for the same highest competence as he mentioned state secrets here. And according to the draft law, the proposal for the election and appointment of the Ombudsman by the Croatian Parliament should make a proposal for a law says the Joint Committee on the Constitution and the Committee on Human Rights. However, because of some business obstacles to the adoption of this proposal, I think it would be a better solution because this solution is simply not enforceable by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, then to find that the Committee on the Constitution as the parent body for the Law on the Ombudsman, for the Ombudsman, determines the proposal, and to obtain the previous opinion of the Committee on Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80338	Thank you. It is the turn of the HSS Club, the distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80339	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The adoption of this law and the institutions of the Advocate General or Advocate General will further strengthen what the constitutional changes require, and we believe that its application will have a positive impact on the system of protection of the fundamental rights of citizens, as well as on the protection and promotion of the rights of the most vulnerable groups of society. During the first reading, various remarks were raised, and some of them were incorporated into this final bill, making some issues clearer and some solutions improved. For example, in Article 16(6), paragraph 6 is added, allowing access to the protection of the Ombudsman and those persons who, for reasons of disability, are unable to comply with the provisions relating to the content and form of the complaint brought to the Ombudsman and are thus equated with other citizens and are not in a more unfavourable position. Furthermore, Article 17(3) of the obligation not to act by the Advocate General is replaced by the possibility of acting on the nature of the case against which the complaint is concerned and it is also proposed that the Advocate General may decide not to act on a complaint if the time limit for the application of the legal remedy or the means of legal protection is still open under specific rules, and this is not done. It has also been established that the Ombudsman may decide not to act if it has been found that the irregularities or decisions of the body referred to in Article 4 of this Act have been made for three years unless the case is of exceptional interest in the protection of human rights. This legislative proposal also sets out the way in which the proceedings are initiated by means of a complaint or on its own initiative by the Advocate General, and the form and content of the complaint are defined, since the Ombudsman is free to decide whether the complaint will be taken into consideration and to what extent. During the course of the proceedings, the Advocate General may carry out an abrogated or examination procedure, with a view to the short implementation of the reduced application and the documents submitted, where the applicants are able to establish that constitutional or legal or legal rights or proceedings are at risk. In the case of an investigation, the Advocate shall request the competent authorities to provide evidence, information and documents and, after its completion, draw up a report on the case and, where possible, propose to take certain measures to remove irregularities, and the competent authority to which recommendations are addressed shall inform the Advocate General of the measures taken. The Advocate General shall have the power to submit a proposal to repeal and abolish a public-legislative solution and the power to apply for the renewal of the administrative procedure, which shall, in addition to all those mentioned above, contribute to a more effective protection of the rights of citizens. The power of the Advocate General in relation to the legal text is further extended to Article 22(5), which provides that the Advocate General may propose to initiate an appropriate procedure against a person who, through unwitting treatment, has caused a violation of constitutional and legal rights or who has not taken appropriate measures on a proposal from the Ombudsman to cause damage to the reduction or correction. According to the existing system in the Republic of Croatia, the special defenders are not only constitutional but legal category, and by joining them with the Ombudsman, the area of their work as well as the authority is raised to the highest possible level which, among other things, further strengthens their independence and independence guaranteed to them by their position as deputy attorney general for special fields. In addition, this organisation achieves synergies and better coordination, which will contribute to the efficiency of the citizens' representations, but will also allow greater availability for citizens who will be able to find protection of their rights in one place. This merger will also improve the use of the existing network of local offices, as existing resources will be available to all vulnerable social groups and will be used to support all activities of the current specialised lawyers. The improvement of communication and exchange of information will contribute to better protection of citizens' rights, but will also enable the creation of a database of all complaints lodged, creating a prerequisite for the empirical demonstration of data on the most violation of fundamental rights and data on public institutions that violate them. We in Croatia believe that it would be better for this legislative proposal to be conducted and a full public debate which is unfortunately missing, and that may be one of the reasons why such a solution is criticised. A step forward in the protection of human rights is certainly the establishment of a deputy civil defender for the protection and promotion of the rights of older people who have existed before, and as the ageing population becomes more and more numerous growth will be the need to protect their specific rights and, in that sense, it is good to take account of this legislative proposal and of that part of the population. In the direction of further strengthening the institution of the Ombudsman, this law also provides for the merger of the human rights centre with the Ombudsman's Office, and the experience and knowledge gained and the institution in applying to extra- budget sources of funding will further improve the existing professional capacities of the Ombudsman and contribute to the successful implementation of its new tasks. In addition, it is proposed to set up a council on human rights as an advisory body that examines and proposes strategic guidelines in the field of human rights promotion, and its composition should be linked by the Ombudsman to representatives of civil society, the academic community and the media, and to ensure continued co-operation in the field of human rights. The Croatian Peasant Party Club believes that the proposed solution will further improve the protection and promotion of fundamental rights in the Republic of Croatia, especially the protection of the most vulnerable social groups and will therefore support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80340	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. He's gone. So it is up to the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. She's gone. They both lose the right to argue because they're not present. There's an individual debate coming up, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80341	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Even though there are different views on the merger of special specialising defenders with the Ombudsman, I believe that this will be achieved on the one hand by a more prominent constitutional position, i.e. the social weight of the Ombudsman institution and, on the other hand, greater rationalisation will be achieved. The merger of special defences will strengthen their coordination, but also the availability of technical and logistics resources to all vulnerable special social groups. Thinking that the proposed law will take away the existing autonomy of the special defences because, according to the proposal of the law, the Ombudsman gives guidance and instructions for the work of his deputies, I think they are hasty. Because there is no reason to fear a public defender who corresponds to the Croatian Assembly for his work and reports his work every year as well. It also means the work of the D.A.'s office. The proposed law will appoint the current defenders to the deputy attorney general, and will eventually be elected by this Croatian Parliament. The current defence attorneys, and future deputy attorney generals will continue to remain independent in their work and such a legal solution will not reduce their functionality, and current deputy attorneys remain in the post of attorney. State officials and subsistences found in the Advocate's Offices will be deployed to appropriate jobs. So no one's going to be out of a job, no one's going to be out on the street, which is very important for the people who are working in the D.A.'s office right now. Finally, I cannot agree with those considerations that predict that the adoption of this Law will significantly reduce autonomy and the functioning of special defences. I believe that this is not the purpose of this law but vice versa, that all available potentials are more rationally placed in the role of citizens who belong to sensitive special social groups. And for the very end, I should, in any case, appeal to the attorney general as well as to the competent state institutions to have emergency construction personnel access to future defence offices where they are now inaccessible. I think that even now they warn the special Ombudsman for people with disabilities that there is room where it is simply not available and there needs to be something urgent done so that people are really allowed to do so in this sense that they are able to build it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80342	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80343	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected state secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we are discussing a final draft law on the Ombudsman. As I pointed out in my presentation, I'm going to talk about the bill. This law has been proposed for constitutional changes which have introduced some newspapers related to the status of the Ombudsman in the direction of independence and independence of the institution, the pro-active role of the attorney general in promoting human rights. It is therefore necessary to support the applicant's intensities to regulate these and other submitted newspapers in full law. In the field of human rights promotion, the Ombudsman monitors the situation and points to the need for their protection, which is guided by analytical data, regularly informs the public about the promotion of rights, encourages cooperation with civil society organisations and others. In order to strengthen in practice the promotional role of the Ombudsman, the final proposal brings together the establishment of the Centre for Human Rights with the Office of the Ombudsman. A council on human rights is being established as an advisory body that is considering and proposing guidelines for promoting human rights, ensuring the cooperation of all entities associated with the promotion of human rights. The final proposal also regulates the special powers of the Advocate General resulting from Article 12. The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and Obligations of... Protocols with the Convention against Torture and other cruel inhuman or humiliating proceedings or punishments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposal also regulates the way in which the Ombudsman is handled on the basis of complaints from citizens or on the basis of his own initiative. In its proceedings, the Advocate General may carry out a shortened procedure or an examination procedure. The shortened procedure is used when the documentation undoubtedly indicates that applicants are at risk of human rights. In the examination procedure, the Advocate General shall request the relevant information and documentation from the competent authorities. It shall then draw up a report proposing, if possible, measures to remove irregularities. The competent authority to which the recommendations have been addressed will be required to inform the Advocate General of the measures taken. In addition, the Advocate General shall have the power to submit proposals for the annulment and abolition of the public legal authority's solution as well as the power to apply for the renewal of the administrative procedure. In addition, this final proposal proposes bringing together the professional and administrative capacities of the Office of Special Prosecutors in order to achieve mutual coordination of the Advocates and to improve the effectiveness of the citizens' representations and to strengthen the authority of specialised lawyers through the constitutional authority of the Ombudsman. Annual reports by the Ombudsman would include reports in the field of work of all specialised lawyers, their problems and clear recommendations. The final draft law provides for the introduction of a deputy occupier for the protection and promotion of fundamental rights, for the protection and promotion of children's rights, for the protection and promotion of gender equality, for the protection and promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities, and for the protection of older persons. Furthermore, some of the solutions set out in the draft laws have been improved to evaluate the proposal, the remarks and opinions expressed at the plenary session to the working bodies and the opinions of other institutions. So, for example, in the article... Article 5 5 of the extended power of the Advocate General, the activity of the Deputy Advocate General for Children, the Vice-General for Gender Equality, and the Deputy Advocate General for Older Persons has been strengthened,... [[You don't understand.]] is the mandate of the Advocate General and his deputies in order to ensure the continuity of the work of the institution. [[You don't understand.]] Finally, the opinion of the Advocate General himself on the delay in the application of the law was adopted in order to carry out the necessary actions for the successful operation of the new system. For the sake of all of this, I believe that this final proposal significantly promotes the position and powers of the Ombudsman, that the merger of the Office of Special Prosecutors will improve their coordination and mutual co-operation, so I support the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80344	Thank you. It is time for the honourable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80345	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So in our second reading, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman, after we discussed it in our first reading at the plenary session in June of this year, here, as we heard, the Proposer took note of most of the comments from the first reading, i.e. the proposals of the representatives made so in the first reading of the individual parliamentary committees, was respected by a number of proposals and other institutions from the ministries to the specialised defenders that they had and expressed on the proposal of this law. These proposals are therefore embedded in this final proposal and certainly contribute to its quality. First of all, with regard to this law, I would like to say that he is going from the new constitutional decree of the attorney general. As we know by the constitutional changes of June last year, it was found that the Ombudsman was the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms established by the Constitution, the law and the international human rights laws adopted, on freedoms. Thus far, the current law on the obligation of the Ombudsman has been extended to the area of promoting human rights and freedoms, thus allowing the Ombudsman to continue, thus allowing him to play a proactive role, and according to this role, in accordance with the objective that is to be achieved, a merger with the Office of the Ombudsman, the Centre for Human Rights, which is the institution of which the founder of the Republic of Croatia, which is also involved in promoting human rights in the Republic of Croatia is proposed. As has so far, I would say the most significant role in the protection of human rights and freedoms, and the rule of law, is responsible for considering complaints about the existence of illegality and irregularities in the work of state bodies, the bodies of units of local and regional self-government, legal persons with public authority, and legal and natural persons in accordance with specific laws. The Ombudsman will also have jurisdiction to monitor the compliance of the laws and regulations with the provisions of the Constitution and international legal acts. In relation to the current Law on the Ombudsman, this law certainly introduces a series of newspapers and a series of improvements that will contribute to strengthening the role of the Ombudsman, his independence and independence, as well as a better and more effective organisation of the entire system. The procedural rules will also be defined, hence the form and manner of handling of the Ombudsman from the so-called way in which the proceedings are initiated, to the form of complaints brought to the Ombudsman. So far, these procedural provisions have not been defined by this law, henceforth, by the Law on the Ombudsman, but have been subsidically applied by the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. And in the end, I will also refer to the paper in this law that has actually brought the most public attention and the most reactions of the various institutions, associations, etc., so it is a proposal to bring together existing specialised lawyers with the attorney general, so the lawyers for gender equality, the lawyers for persons with disabilities and the Ombudsman for children, therefore, with the Ombudsman. We heard the applicant's argument that this is a very different concept of a public defender's system in relation to the current one, so the promoter, the Ministry of Justice, of course the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I also agree that this system will certainly strengthen the institution of the Ombudsman, among other things, and because the institution of the Ombudsman is now a constitutional category, and that it will also take over from the current specialised lawyers in this constitutional framework. Therefore, what they have been doing and the current specialised lawyers are expected to be conducted at the level of the deputy attorney general, who, according to the provisions of this law which would therefore be five, is thus foreseen to introduce the deputy staff's attorney for human rights and freedoms, the deputy for children's rights, gender equality, for persons with disabilities and the deputy staff's attorney for older persons. The deputies, as stated by the law, will continue to have a high level of independence and independence in their work, as they are appointed by the Croatian Assembly of the Republic of Croatia for an 8-year term, with a view to selecting the majority of all MPs and deputies to the common majority. So here's why I believe that the legal solutions offered under this law are quality and good, I will support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80346	We have one replica, distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sesvečan, you, in your debate, and most of the colleagues who participated well pointed out what was the main opposition to the public in the adoption of this law. So far, specialised lawyers, including the public defenders, have pointed out the disfavor and dissent with the proposed merger of the current specialised lawyers for children, gender equality and persons with disabilities with the Ombudsman, including those who are not presently present in the assembly, who have called on us and pointed to European practice, should publicly and openly say what the promoter in the context of this Final Proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman has said, and this is that in the countries of the European legal environment nowhere is the issue of a system of promotion and protection of fundamental rights through the action of the national institution for promotion and protection of fundamental rights is covered by the so-called so-called. Soft acquis and which, within the framework of the EU's overall acquis, does not prescribe any specific conditions on how Member States' national legislation is obliged to regulate its own system of promotion and protection of fundamental rights, which would then oblige the Republic of Croatia to coordinate in the context of EU accession. Therefore, I, too, support this proposal and this concept, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given by uniting, i.e. by bringing together existing specialisings with the Ombudsman, and I particularly welcome the introduction of a new deputy staff attorney for older persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80348	Thank you. Dear Representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80349	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, I'll begin by commending this final bill, and I'll tell you why. Because when we got that first proposal on the bench, I even understood the special defenders when they didn't agree with this merger by the Attorney General. However, I am pleased that all of these negative provisions have been removed from the original proposal and I think that this is now a good proposal, especially for the reason that here, in no way will the rights of any of the special lawyers be abolished, or the group of whom they are currently taking special care and resolving rights. So both children and persons with disabilities and a lawyer for gender equality. I see, here we got on the bench, what I still had inexplicable, and that's what we talked about on one committee, and I didn't like that provision, that in this law, I was kind of giving priority to the deputy attorney general, the current one, compared to the deputy special defenders. When it comes to Article 38 and Article 44, however, I will not particularly waste my time because here I see that my colleagues have given amendments to these articles and I believe that you will accept these amendments because that is how we are really solving a big problem. In no way would it be good for the current deputy attorney general to be placed in a privileged position, and in the future, when it is necessary to change the attorney general to be the Ombudsman for human rights and freedoms. I don't think it should be defined by law, so let the attorney general choose him, but the law says it's one of the attorneys who, one of the deputies, will be appointed by the attorney general. All in all, it seems to me that this will be a good law and that here it will be, I am glad that the existing special defenders will rise to one constitutional level, what is extremely important for the protection of the rights of particularly sensitive groups. And finally one here is a very well-intentioned advice, and that is, and what is most dear to me I will tell my favorite why these defenders will all be joined together with a coup. Well, since the attorney general hasn't taken care of it by now, and he's not, so he's been breaking the law right now, or even other attorneys, now he's gonna have to simply adjust his space to what his colleague Kunst was talking about, because it's unacceptable and so far that a public defender solves older people's problems, he even has an employee with disabilities, and that his spaces are absolutely inaccessible. I believe that this time that remains until the law is applied, everyone will think about it, especially the Ombudsman, and here I appeal to you at the Ministry of Justice to take care of it because it must not happen, it would be contrary to the Law on Construction and the Law on Access to Construction, and finally the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities that the space that will be used in the future by a public defender would not be adapted to persons with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties and older people. At this point, the only area of attorney general's office for people with disabilities, which is logical, is fully adapted, everyone else isn't, and that's why I'm glad when they get together one day, then everyone's gonna be forced to think about it. If for nothing else or just because you're still the attorney-in-law. So in a short time, we're also hoping for a deputy who's a person with disabilities and what's in a wheelchair and what's going to have to adjust the space for her, and then so does all of us. I believe that in the end, with great disdain, everyone will be satisfied with this law, and here I support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80350	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am, of course, conceived this debate in a way that I absolutely support this bill, and I will look mainly at those recommendations or conflicts that have appeared so far in the debates in terms of challenging this legislative proposal that is absolutely good, acceptable and consensual, but also constitutionally, therefore absolutely in line with the novels of the Constitution and the new Article 93. So, what's it really about? The greatest criticism in terms of these conflicts of concepts is precisely... the attorney general. The Ombudsman himself is in a document that... according to the Croatian Parliament since 12 September 2011 which was addressed to the committees, says the following, I will quote that there would be no misunderstandings. So he says that this law represents a weakness of institutions and that it is obvious because the proposal instead of the three deputies covering the present section now foresees the removal of the duties of two deputies by the foundation of only one deputy who should cover all areas of the present and new part-round. However, in Article 26 of the Law, this is obviously not the case, although he is still working on certain matters but which have nothing to do with the essence and concept of the Law and in Article 26, there are no two nor three but one, 2, 3, 4, 5 deputies, so the deputy staff attorney for human rights and freedoms, the deputy staff attorney for children's rights, the deputy attorney for gender equality, persons with disabilities and older persons. So, all of this is covered in terms of activity, it can't be about any weakness of the institution, and it's especially surprising because that remark comes from the Ombudsman. The second remark he makes in this document, I will also quote it, says the proposal provides for the accession of the special defence attorney institution to the Ombudsman with the application of 1. Seven. In 2012, it is also not acceptable or possible without serious adverse consequences. However, he does not say what the adverse consequences are, nor do they indicate. Therefore, it is said in this document that these are serious adverse consequences and this is like the remark or the biggest remark addressed to this proposal for a law. So it's a conflict of concepts. One concept advocates the existing situation, this concept is more modern, it provides for one institution, a way of working out the law, in full compliance with all European documents and in full compliance with constitutional provisions. Let us look at the comments made in the light of the challenge to the provisions of this Law by the Advocate General for the Rights of the Children. I couldn't believe it when I read them because I don't think anyone who's read the Law alone, as you can see, some things clouded simply those remarks don't stand. So I quote: "the lack of a separate report on the state of children's rights, and united reporting will certainly put children and their perspective or cloud the status of children's rights in society, and the public will not get a real picture of the state of children's rights". This Law does not put in another plan children's rights as well as any other person's, is an absolute tool for better quality children's rights to be affirmed and, in the end of the line, stems from Article 28 where it is the responsibility of the Deputy Advocate for Children to inform the public about the state of children's rights, and then to monitor and promote the implementation of obligations of the Republic of Croatia arising from the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other International Contracts and documents relating to the protection of children's rights and interests. And not to prolong, therefore, all the remarks we've had so far had the opportunity to hear, especially on committees where everyone had the opportunity to manifest themselves about all of this is not essential but conceptual nature. They agree that each Ombudsman should be a separate institution as possible under the current regulation. This Law, in a sense, unites the institutions and forms a single institution of attorneys but does not deprive any activity contrary to this Law even more of an opportunity to protect all those persons who need to be protected through the work of the deputy staff attorney, regardless of the rights of children, gender equality of persons with disabilities and persons for older persons. So, this law should be supported he is quite certainly in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with international documents, and I have seen these remarks that I have had so far as to see as a conflict of concepts, however, this concept is absolutely more acceptable than the one we have had so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80352	Thank you. And it's up to the Honorable Agent Antun Mance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80353	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I must say, I listened very carefully to the debate that from the secretary of state to the esteemed Mr. Tomljanović almost covered all the remarks that we took note of here as individuals, which was at all comments through the debates earlier, so how will the attorney general function? Therefore, nothing will be abolished by this law, this Law should, on the contrary, say that the synergy effect of the action of the Advocate General with individual specialised lawyers will therefore be possible to strengthen this implementation. Therefore, we must bring this into line because the Constitution has been imposing this on us since July 2010, therefore, the activities of the Ombudsman will be materially strengthened, there will be better conditions, as we have heard so far, so from these advocates who are mentioned and who have been the subject of some debate in a negative sense, as my predecessor said, therefore conceptually, the difference is conceptual. Perhaps she too wanted every lawyer to have his own independence, his service, if we can unite it all, we will come into a situation that we will have better material conditions for the work of the attorney general, and his deputies, on the contrary, nothing will be lost there. Therefore, I propose that we support this Law and that this Law be adopted because it will be a sure improvement, and perhaps just one more sentence, perhaps the debate was abundant, which has not been mentioned, this final bill is fully in line with the Paris principles of 91st year. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80354	Thank you. Lastly, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Zoran Piculjan. State Secretary at the Department of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80355	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for the debate that has been quality and that supports this proposal. A lot of the concept has been discussed, in fact, about the essence of this Law and the debate has been very broadly implemented and I think that the concept that the promoter has proposed, in any case, improves the protection of human rights and gives instruments for an even stronger improvement in the protection of human rights and human rights in the Republic of Croatia. I don't think that's disputed and that you can deny yourself to the proponent of goodwill, but also quality solutions. What has arrived during the parliamentary debate amendments to this law, the promoter has looked at them, examined them and they are quite, quite acceptable and we accept them and thank them for it. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80356	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80357	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Ombudsman, there was a second reading of P.Z. No. 833. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. Two amendments, representative Ana Lovrin, and joint Emil Tomljanović and Ana Lovrin and Ivo Grbić. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman, please let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by a majority of 76 votes in favour and 1 abstention and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80358	We are now moving to the point of the Single Final List for the election of the President of the Committee on Conflict of Interest and the Unique Final List for the selection of members of the Committee for Decisions on Conflict of Interest. It is under point - Selection and appointments A, on behalf of the board, will be spoken by the chairman of the committee, the esteemed Nevenka Majdenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80359	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative committee is at 70. Session held 20. October 2011 For years, he has drawn up a single final list for the election of the president of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, and is proposing the next candidates to elect a president. 1. Sanju Lozančić, Ivan Matleković, Silvio Ratkovic, Dora Rešeter and Saša Žebić. And you just have to say that out of all these candidates you're going to choose one person.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80360	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80361	The Committee for Elections, Appoint and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament at the 70th session held on 20 October 2011 drew up a unique final list for the selection of members of the Committee for Conflict of Interest and proposed the following candidates for the selection of members of the Committee for Conflict of Interest: Siniš Andrijanic, Dani Budimir, Mila Čulomović, Irena Čupić, Dijana Dulibić-Vlahov, Mirela Padljević, Joz Jelavić, Rajko Kneklin, Jadranka Kolarevic, Željka Kolenović, Sanja Lozančić, Ivan Matleković, Dubravko Ogujic, Lovru Pejković, Silvio Ratković, Dora Rešetar, Stip Vranjković, Saša Žebić and Žokaljalj. And all we have to say is that of all these candidates, the Croatian Parliament will elect four members. Therefore, the total commission will consist of 5 members of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80362	Thank you. There are no reports. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80363	We move on to the election of presidents and members of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, the debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day In accordance with Article 231 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 231 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, a secret vote will be held, proposed candidates for members and presidents of the Committee are considered elected if they are voted by most of the total number of representatives of the Croatian Parliament. So 77 should be in. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that three MPs help me conduct this secret vote and Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil, Mr. Stanko Grcic and Mr. Emil Tomljanović. In the meantime, while this is in place and until debate, we will also vote on a proposal to supplement the agenda, that we have enough time. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the result of the vote for the president of the commission's candidate has been completed, so I will say that out of 153 MPs, 77 MPs have received the ballot. Seventy-seven MPs voted. There were six wrong ballots. Six MPs voted for candidate Sandra Lozancic. 64 MPs voted for candidate Ivan Matlekovic. I declare that for the president of the commission and candidate Saša Zebić one, Silvano Ratkovic is nothing... Nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 64 plus 6 is 70 plus 6 for Mrs. Lozancic is 76 and 1 for Sasha Zebić that's 77. The president wasn't elected. And now, ladies and gentlemen, let's be patient just a little bit longer. Now we're going to vote for members of the presidency. It's nice there, too. We're here in 20 minutes to publish the results.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80366	We move to the point - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 891 Proposer Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Stipe Mamić State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80367	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. These amendments and additions to the Sport Act propose the adoption of provisions that will facilitate and speed up the implementation of the law in the section relating to legal consequences, convictions and criminal proceedings in a way that requires the court to notify the legal person in which the convicted person is entitled to perform duties and functions as well as the judgment of the competent registry authority. In order to improve the status of Croatian athletes who have won medals in the Olympic, Paralympic and Olympic Games, thus borrowing the Republic of Croatia with their sports successes, and taking into account that one part of these athletes does not have adequate living conditions or social status following the completion of their sports careers, these amendments to the Sports Act propose to adopt provisions on permanent monetary fees to those athletes. The amount to be provided in the state budget is around 5 million 264 thousand kuna per year. All living Olympic and Paralympic conquerors as well as deaf athletes' Olympic medals that meet the planned age limit have been taken into account in the calculation of the amount. It also provides minimum conditions, meaning citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, residence in the Republic of Croatia, property censorship 60% of the average salary per household member and age for athletes 60 and 65 years, respectively. These provisions and the proposed amendments also amend the provisions relating to state awards for top sports achievements that are equal to deaf athletes with other athletes in such a way as to propose the addition of those provisions, so that the state award for top sports achievements can be awarded to the athlete, the sports team and the professional sports person for the winning gold medal, the first place in the world and European senior championships and the neo-Olympic sports of the deaf. Therefore, these changes achieve a more efficient and faster application and implementation of the Law on Sports, and we repay ourselves to Croatian Olympics, Paralympics and Deaf Olympics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80368	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Šima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80369	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments and additions to the Sport Act propose the adoption of provisions that will facilitate and speed up the implementation of the law. In the section relating to legal consequences, judgments in criminal proceedings in a way that obliges the court to notify the legal person in which the judgment has been convicted of acts, duties or functions and to notify the competent registration authority of the judgment. In order to improve the status of Croatian athletes who won medals in the Olympic, Paralympic, Olympic Games of the Deaf and thus indemnify the Republic of Croatia with their sports successes, taking into account that one of these athletes does not have adequate living conditions or social status after the completion of the sports career, these amendments and additions to the Law on Sports are proposed to adopt provisions on permanent fees to those athletes. The amount of funds provided for in the state budget is around 5 million 264 kuna per year. All living conquerors of the Olympic, Paralympic and Olympic medals of deaf athletes meeting the planned age limit have been taken into account in the calculation of the amount. The provisions relating to state awards for top sports achievements leveled deaf athletes with other athletes in a way that... supplementing that provision by prescribing that the state award for top sports achievements can be awarded to the athlete, sports team and professional sports person for the winning gold medal, first place in the world and European senior championships and... [[You don't understand.]] The sports of the deaf. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, these amendments achieve a more efficient and faster application and implementation of the Law on Sports, and we repay ourselves to Croatian Olympics, Paralympics and Deaf Olympics. Based on the proposed amendments to the law, the minimum amount of a permanent monthly fee would be: for the won gold medal of 5400 kuna, for the silver medal of 4300 kuna, for the won bronze medal of 3200 kuna. These amounts, considered by the Croatian Democratic Community club, are not a social category but a status category. When better economic and financial opportunities in the Republic of Croatia, we believe that the status of our well-deserved athletes who promoted Croatia's name worldwide will be better both in status and financial terms because they deserve it. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support amendments and additions to the Sport Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80370	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80371	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an interesting last name, Mamic, right? My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the proposal today for a law on amendments and additions to the old Law on Sports, the old, how old I don't know either, but not too much, with the final bill of law. So my colleague, Mr. Šima Djurdjevic, said, obviously we from Brod-Posavina County are interested in sports, so here we are on behalf of HDZ and HDSSB clubs, who clearly and loudly said here about the pay phone. So in that first part, as Mr. State Secretary also said in connection with saying bans on sports to persons who are legally convicted of certain crimes which are just and just, and further particularly when it is known how sport works, who participates in sports above all, and then that part is therefore unquestionable for the HDSSB club. This second part relating to the award of gold, silver and bronze bearers and medal winners is indeed I would say modest when talking about the monetary amount, according to fellow 5400 for gold, 4300 for silver and 3200. Obviously it is about average personal income currently in the Republic of Croatia, he is bound by it. Something else here has asked me to come forward, namely, when it comes to assessing the situation and basic issues that are regulated in the laws, then it's about the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games and the Olympic Games of the Deaf. In Slavonski Brod there is a team, but also individuals who participate in games of the blind and win European and world medals, and gold and silver, which in individual, which in group competition, e.g. bowling. Since I don't see it here, in this bill I don't see where such athletes are. I have to ask the Secretary of State that he may explain this segment to me so when it comes to the blind, when it comes to their sports competitions, which certainly means a lot to them to travel and to compete on their behalf and on behalf of the Republic of Croatia and indeed achieve the highest results. Here I say in bowling in the town of Slavonski Brod we have two individuals who are... in individual competition, as well as for the Croatian team in bowling for the blind. [[You don't understand.]] I, once in this term as a parliamentary representative in these four years and took a written intervention with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia a year ago, may have come to you as well. After winning the gold medal at the games of the blind in Poland, I think it was in Katovica, the prize paid in this rule was not paid even though the games were held and the medals were won in June and the year in which it was, so in 2009. Well, that's the prize that came before itself, on Sylvester alone, so on 31.12.2009, when it was paid, I hope that either my submission affected that it would be worth it, but it also belonged to them. Now, when it comes to what we're talking about here, what it says, is that after 60 years for women, 65 years for men, if it belongs to them, here's the secretary of state, please explain to me, and that permanent receipt if they meet those conditions of 3200 kuna which is the limit per household member as I see it. Here's a question for you. Given that the HDSSB Club has its position in terms of voting, I cannot plead yes or no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80372	Thank you. And on behalf of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative Stanko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80373	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable state secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party Club will say immediately at the beginning that we support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, as the proposed solutions will improve current practice. In particular, they will facilitate the implementation of the Law on Sport related to the legal consequences of criminal proceedings and the judgment of persons convicted of criminal offences which, under the law mentioned above, constitute an obstacle to the exercise of activity in sport. It is about persons convicted of crimes against the Republic of Croatia, against the value of protected international rights, as well as a criminal offence against sexual freedom and sexual disorder, against life and bodies, unless it has been committed in majeure or out of disability, and another criminal offence for which an unconditional prison sentence has been imposed. This person cannot participate in sports competitions, organise and conduct sports competitions, carry out professional activities in sport, or participate in the work of the assembly or body of the management of a sports association or company for 2 years from the maintenance of a pardoned or outdated sentence. The proposed amendments shall establish the obligation of the court to notify the legal person, in accordance with the power of judgment, that within eight days of the knowledge of the judicial judgment, the convicted person is removed from the performance of the activities of the sport activity and that it informs the competent registration authority which, within eight days of that knowledge, must adopt appropriate acts to amend or delete those persons from the register. This solution will certainly contribute to a faster and more efficient response by sports organisations in such cases, since sport and violence or crime cannot go together. This is especially important when it comes to people who work with children, and this sends a clear message that illegal behavior is unacceptable and unfair, and contrary to sports spirit and fair play rules. In particular, we would like to praise the solution that will improve the status of Croatian athletes who won medals in the Libyan Paralympic and Olympic Games and thus indemnify the Republic of Croatia with their sports successes. Despite these sports successes, some of them do not have a social status or live under adequate conditions, and these changes and additions propose permanent cash compensation to those athletes whose additional recognition would be made. According to the proposal, the right to permanent cash compensation can be achieved by athletes with 55 years of life and athletes with 60 years of life who are Croatian citizens and are resident in the Republic of Croatia and have monthly income whose total amount per family member does not exceed 60% of the average net salary per employee in legal persons in the Republic of Croatia in the year preceding the acquisition of the right to compensation according to the publication of the State Statistics Office. Thus, it is proposed that the right to this permanent monthly fee may be granted by a athlete who fulfils those conditions and who, at his request, is granted a solution to the Ministry of Sport's competence. A sportsman who won more medals could also exercise the right to a permanent cash fee only in the amount of one medal won, with the amount of compensation that is due to the highest medal. The monthly fee would be life-long and could not be the subject of inheritance, and the athlete loses in case he no longer fulfils the prescribed conditions. It is proposed that the permanent monthly fee of athletes for the winning gold medal is 100%, for the winning silver 80, and the bronze medal is 60% of the average net salary per employee for legal persons in the Republic of Croatia as we said in the year preceding the acquisition of the right to compensation according to the publication of the State Statistics Office. This type of cash compensation for medals won at the Olympic Games would result in a total of 37 athletes – 17 gold, 19 silver and 1 bronze. The winner of the medals at the Paralympic Games was five of which won gold and three bronze medals while the medals at the Olympic Games were won by 22 athletes in total. So this is a total of 64 athletes, and the implementation of the law in the state budget is planned to amount to 5 million 264000 kuna per year. Furthermore, the legislative proposal extends the circle of people who can be awarded a state prize for top sports achievements. In addition to athletes, sports teams and professional sports persons for the winning gold medal, the first place in the world, European, senior championships and non-Olympic and non-paralympic sports that have a longer tradition in the Republic of Croatia, and in cases where the sports achievement of an individual or sports team has a special international value and the importance of the state award for top athletes can now be awarded to the athlete, sports team or professional sports person for the winning gold medal. First place in the world and European championships and in the neo-Olympic sports of the deaf. Especially glad that when extending the circle of persons who will be able to receive the state award, the state reward also takes care of those who are engaged in the sport of the deaf, and that is why all of the above mentioned club of the Croatian Peasants' Party will again support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80374	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. This law actually includes two, changes to the law include two completely different areas. It is one legal restriction to engage in sports activities for persons who are under convictions or in criminal proceedings, which is acceptable, and when it comes to this other part of the activity relating to permanent fees for sports achievements, I must say that this bill is a major change. So it represents one big step in the right direction, but it's a big step on a very far path. So what you really need to notice is the fact that there are too many limits. Restrictions are in amounts, restrictions are at a time when athletes are a top athlete, I would say a worthy citizen of the Republic of Croatia acquires the right to receive that fee. In fact, it is about people who, in order to achieve such a result, must practically invest their lives. And this fee against the value of the stakes and that's life is not adequate. And that's where I have to say I disagree with those who think it's not a social category. These fees, which are provided for there, are nevertheless a social category, therefore aid in this regard. They're welcome, but they're not the answer to our problems. I think we should make a qualitative comparison with the countries in the neighborhood how much these fees are in them, since they can be received. For example, in neighbouring Serbia, which is working hard to achieve top sports results, these fees are three times higher, they are obtained immediately after winning the Olympic medal, and we know that the neighbouring country is significantly poorer than Croatia and that the average salaries there are half as low as ours here. So this speaks of relative relations that apply in a neighbouring country that sets out to improve sports results. We need to make an even bigger step here, and we need to be aware that people who engage especially in a small country are investing objectively their lives in sports results, and they must have certain protection from the state. Secondly, when we talk about sports at all, we cannot notice that it is necessary not only from the level of the Olympic board, but rather from a greater presence and monitoring of the state of sports right in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, in order to help our young perspectives, as well as top athletes who are studying. Our system is extremely rigid, and it simply does not allow people to deal with top sports and study at the same time. Many, especially in Olympic sports that are popular in Anglo-Saxon countries, are looking for a solution in going to study in the United States, and are practically American universities for a good part of our students, sports students practically shelter. I would also remind those who have just finished their studies, but also achieved, won the Olympic medals, so there is Duja Draganja, there is Boraska from rowing, there are several Croatian athletes who thus provided themselves with a practical opportunity to deal with both sport and study. With us it is very difficult to go together, almost impossible, especially since the introduction of the Bologna process, and we all suffer from one problem that with complete right from its point of view every professor at the university says how much is written then and then, if a colleague is not there or when he is tested or per year, but also says the menu, in any sport preparation starts then and then, who is there, there he is. And then the athlete finds himself in a situation where he chooses between going to a colloquium or a test, or going to prep, and we lose an extremely large number of perspective athletes, it should carry out a serious analysis in Croatia as far as we are actually losing through it. Here is also today some top doctors, one of the most prized Croatian orthopaedics was a candidate for the 1st place at the European Championship, left sports 40 years ago because he decided on his academic career, couldn't study and do sports, I won't name it, but the problem is that he hasn't taken a step forward since then. We need to recognize it as a society, and we need to make sure that we don't lose top athletes because they have to be defined between college and sports. Not every sport carries money, has most sports exactly these Olympic medal winners, which also makes these changes to the law belong to that category of people, who can't live on sports, of the fact that they used to be engaged in sports can't provide themselves with lasting living incomes, but must actually look for a life perspective through occupation, and then it's very often through study. So the opportunity is this and that is why I talk about it in such a way today when the representative of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is here, and regarding this law we need to find a model for categorized Croatian athletes, so those top categories to enable and facilitate the process of monitoring classes in colleges and approaches to exams and colloquisms. So I consider this an important step in the right direction, but I also call for other important problems that burden Croatian athletes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80376	Thank you. It's the Honorable representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80377	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to take a brief look at these amendments and the additions to the Sport Act, in particular I am interested in Article 81a concerning the holders of Olympic medals. It is good that our government has proposed this law and that this is a major shift in solving this problem. We all have to bear in mind that a sportsman's career has a limited age, which is because of the psychophysical efforts that top athletes constantly expose themselves to, we know that they have been doing their job knowingly and responsibly since their early childhood, to serve for example for all young people, and sometimes for all of us, these are people who live in a very strict regime for 20 years of career. We are all aware of the fact that athletes are very helpful in promoting our country, both home and in the world, and they are not just floscules. We all know that around the world today are recognizable red and white cubes as a Croatian trademark and brand, many times we have welcomed our sports giants after winning the titles, Olympic winners, and we politicians and politicians are very happy to paint when we welcome our athletes, we are very happy to photograph ourselves, especially I can point out this when it comes to water polo, especially water poloists, our team, but here I want with pride to highlight our golden Olympics from the Dubrovnik south, and I also want to highlight our golden paralympic Michael Spain who has penetrated Croatian colors around the world. And because of their results, we've been so proud of them many times, and that we're their fellow citizens, I'm glad we want to reward our best ambassadors in the world. And I believe that when there are better economic opportunities that this law will also change, according to better economic opportunities, and I believe that this amount of compensation will also be greater. One thing we can discuss here is whether this is a status prize or a social aid or a fee. It appears from this bill that it is social because 60% of that amount, and that amount is the average net salary in July 2011, amounted to 5 thousand 365 kuna, resulting in 60% of 3 thousand 219 kuna. This is just a debate, my personal one, which is just trying to encourage you to think about the next changes to the law. So if one of the family members makes 3,000 220, then that golden Olympic, and especially here I'm talking about paralympics, in which case he loses his right to this fee. So if one of the family members makes more than this amount, he won't have the right to compensation. I'm talking about 60% of the average salary in July 2011. I think this is for thinking. I say, I welcome the law, I'm glad we're going in the right direction, but I'm sure we should consider when economic opportunities change about and a different fee. What I'm particularly interested in here, which is the age limit. And it seems to me that this is lagging behind from that old retirement law that the age limit is 60 for men, 55 for women. I think it's something that we have to think about, and maybe even some amendment to intervene because I think it would be a real proposal at the end of an active sports career, not when they're 55 years old or 60 years old. Try to imagine a 60-year-old paralympic. You have to imagine what his psychophysical abilities are like. And I think that's the thing to think about, I'm saying maybe for the secretary of state and for the minister while we vote on this law. I say neither census nor height because it's a matter of the current economic moment, but I think the age limit should be reconsidered and I think it's one of the remains of that pension law where there were men at 60 and women at 55 years of age. Once again I want to highlight the role of athletes in our society, the role of athletes in the country of Croatia, the role I tell all of us from the beginning of the story that we are very looking forward to with their successes and who we have experienced in other disciplines, I am particularly sensitive to water polo and swimming, but surely there are other disciplines and where they earn much less and much less their clubs can afford them and much less their municipalities and cities and their headships or their mayors and mayors can afford them from municipal local budgets. So, I think the thing is for a little deeper thinking. Certainly the law should be welcomed, it is good that we remembered them and it is good that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed and put this law amendments in the procedure. But I'd like to ask by tomorrow maybe still consult on the age limit. Not around heights because I know the budget doesn't have any money, I know that 5.5 million or something is meant as an item in the budget that we can't go beyond that, but I think 64 people in the Republic can think a little bit more about them and try to help them. Especially here, I put the accent on the paralympics, and when I speak Paralympics, I think about Anna Srsen, and I mean Michael Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80378	Thank you. Neda Klaric insists on the replica, please. She said two sentences.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Shuica's with you, I really agree, but I'd just like to get to the point of actually reaching the educational dimension of this law. Croatia's public name is Perice Bukic, which is the name of 5 Croats whose name is entered in the House of Fame. So it's definitely clear to all of us what this is all about, but even so when we talk about the educational dimension that this law would receive, it's also the fact that Mr. Bukic has fallen back into the pool together with his son Luke, who is already a 17-year-old young man who is definitely already the bearer of gold and is with him in the pool. This is a strong message to the entire Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80380	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dubravka Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80381	Well, here's a colleague I understand your local patriotism and the reason why you're talking about our colleague, but I thought that in society, it's not about those who are with us in society, so that's why I didn't mention Perica, but since he'll be talking about this law soon, I believe that the whole public is familiar with his sporting engagement and in "Youth" and re-engagement in active sports. So, he wouldn't be subject to this provision that I'm proposing, which is after an active sports career because he'd come back again and he might make this provision worthless to me, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80382	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Now it is up to the honourable representative of Perica Bukic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80383	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I thank you for these nice words and I'm glad that sport is finally on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. At the beginning of the presentation, I would like to point out immediately that I also think that this bill is a small step forward in resolving the status of athletes, although I must make it clear that it is not a solution that athletes are satisfied with. Of course I understand the reasons for making such a proposal. We all know what difficult times we are living in today, but it is also a fact that athletes who have always been proud of all of us have been patiently waiting for this topic to finally be found on the agenda both the Governments and the Parliament. And I understand that they are not satisfied with the solutions offered. First of all, it's hard for athletes to accept that the proposed fees are still a social category. It's even harder to accept it as we've heard from our colleague's exposure when we all know how it was handled in neighboring countries. We have already heard from the debates of concrete and proposals and the grudges of this bill, and I would also say that I think it's a positive thing to see the problem, what started to think, write, debate and what we started from a dead end anyway. I will use this exhibition and once again as I did when the topic of debate in this High House was sports to point to the importance and importance of sports. First of all, I think it is important today, given the situation and the problems that are present at all levels of sports in Croatia. I am personally sorry that sport generally does not have a place in society and a country that deserves its importance. The status of top athletes, which is the topic of this debate, is only a small part of the overall problem in the functioning of sports in Croatia. I am convinced that we are all still remembering the magnificent successes of our athletes and in the past year and years before both Ivica and Blanca and the handball player that I am not counting on because I am going to skip someone, but I am proud, as Representative Shuica said about the successes of water polo, in a wonderful way when one of the world's greatest sports events and competitions in Zagreb were organized in the senior competition where we won a gold medal before the shrubs. And it was also repeated by players up to 18 years of age at the Junior European Championship in Rijeka, who were the best, gold in their generation also in extremely strong competition. Why am I pointing this out? Among other things, and precisely because I am deeply aware and aware of the state and the problems of sports and I want to do it again and again because of all of us, because of the public, because of sports and athletes, because of young people, to point out that sport is too important social activity whose role in society and the state is unrepeated from a number of different perspectives. whether it is the pride of the nation because of the great successes and the results of our most successful athletes, whether it is because of young and children whose sport is one of the few oasis in today's way of growing up where young times, unfortunately, are mostly spent in front of computers and cafes and that I am not counting on the role of sports in the health of the general population, to tourism from the economy, to the media. So, the first key assumption for starting to solve the problem in sport and the basis of successfully establishing sport is the system of financing sports, i.e. the revenues and expenditures of sports associations, clubs and individuals in Croatia. No matter what the budget of the Croatian Olympic Committee is still growing from year to year, I will once again repeat my conviction that this income should be increased in the near future, as soon as possible, of course. In order for the Croatian Olympic Committee to participate in the overall needs of each national alliance in much more. At this point in time, the funding of the national alliance is still covered by the Croatian Olympic Committee means the indirect government in the smaller part of as much as 77% of the income of these alliances is left to worry about individuals who run alliances which of course does not guarantee neither guarantee nor provide financial or organisational stability and thus neither continuity of results and success. Of course, the financial stability of the alliance ensures the successful work and progress of its members either by clubs or individuals. And as much as we do at least manage to make up for our sponsors and donations today, we can hardly expect to be able to function in the future. Even... the comparison in this segment with our eastern or western neighbours will show how much we lag behind them and how many Croatian athletes' successes, with all the efforts made by the Government and the Croatian Olympic Committee, are largely the result of huge love, talent, improvisation, desire and, unfortunately, too little system and organisation. Here I would also like to repeat the opinions with which most athletes and sports workers agree that, for the survival and development of sport of all levels, it is necessary to isolate sports from the current ministry and to enable the functioning of the position if not an independent ministry, one at least of the state's own administrations that could in a good way care both about high-end sports and school recreational locals by a network of sports facilities to maintain the same, plans to build new and so on. I hope that in the near future, sport will get a more appropriate position within the government, and therefore the possibility of even better functioning. I would personally add an opportunity to survive in view of the truly dramatic state of affairs both in the Alliances and even more in sports clubs. It is not enough that we are all proud together of the successes of our individuals or national selections in major competitions as they perform under the national flag and while these successes around the world are being answered by the Croatian anthem. It is our obligation to provide conditions for our young people to achieve the same in the future, and we hope for better results because we certainly have potential. Sporting is also the right of every man and it is the duty of society or state to ensure this need and right. So we want, in conclusion, Croatian sport as the best Croatian product, Croatian sport as the necessity of education, sport as a culture of life, sports events that are... on which we will go sportingly interested without fear of any inconvenience, and at the end of the day Croatian sport that makes us, with anthem and flag, the most proud people in the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80384	Thank you. And the last respected representative, Anton Mance. For today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80385	Mr. Vice-President, Secretary of State, much has been said about sport and certainly this law solves three questions that those people who have had problems with the law not to be, it's a very important educational moment, that even as it has been so far solved here and the status of such athletes who won the Olympic medals and that they get a certain reward, because there have been cases in the world, and in us that it has not been solved. As in major competitions, world championships, European championships also determine the status. I would say more about this subject even though my colleagues have said a lot and I would agree especially with Mr. Bukic in this section when we talk about terms. I know it wasn't settled, although it would have been a special alliance, it's very important and it's very important how much that alliance gets the money that it's going to distribute. It'll either be in this kind of organisational scheme or someone else. However, it should be said that I come from a small environment, that today we can say in Croatia that there is almost no place of 5,000 inhabitants who have no sports hall, and you must know that there was no such thing before and that we create basic conditions in order to be able to engage in sports at all. Look at the spaces, I belong to a mountain-mounted area where you can't play sports for 8 months if you don't have sports halls and that's where one step was made. The second one that is so important to me, is mentioned here by Ivica and Janica, where our ski resort is. We have some neighbouring countries, they've determined to invest in the state and that we need to make ski resorts, we haven't defined it, but we're partly helping to develop these infrastructures, but in any case it reminds me of the halls that at least we can solve those areas that have such conditions, so we can create as we created through the halls that we'll have athletes. Many may not go on, and perhaps this will move them to still play sports because we know that some sports have money, that some have large pay receipts, that others do not particularly take athletics and others where there is not much money, but through the creation of conditions, let us look at the health moment that is very important, and therefore, with these remarks in programming thoughts, I would say that I am on this side as one of the local self-government, the former mayor, the parliamentary representative, pleased that this government and the Ministry have invested a lot in creating conditions and I think if it were statistically expressed to make this a significant improvement for these areas, I think everyone will agree. And that's why I support this, but to continue to think about whether it's possible in some other times when there's more money to reward those athletes and give them status and thus to encourage sports. I mean, first of all, I'm saying that we create conditions not only for the halls, but for the ski resorts and what's in our good condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80386	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Honorable Stipe Mamić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80387	I owe you a few answers and clarifications. First of all, I would like to reply to Mr. Grubisic on the subject of a blind medal winner. Blind athletes are within the Paralympics family so that every medal they win at the Paralympics will be valued according to the Proposal of this Law. It may seem to me that at first we did a little lapus when I was talking about years, but then in the debate, it was crystallized, but I'm going to make it right, so this 4th condition is 55 years of life for a athlete, 60 years for athletes, so that the condition can certainly still be discussed, I believe that there will be some amendments that we'll discuss this proposal. What we in the Ministry on behalf of the Government, I think we can't agree is that in public and in part of the sports public, this is a social compensation. Why isn't that social compensation? Social compensation is not for this reason because it is not related to the nominal amount but is related to a certain percentage of the average salary. So I'm going to pull one historic parallel that's the average salary in the Republic of 1997. For some 2,000, 700 kuna, and today almost twice as many, it means 5 thousand, 400 kuna. So during a certain period when the economic circumstances allow and the average Croatian salary, and we are convinced that it will be significantly higher, this will also increase the limit per household member, as well as increase the amount of the prize. So we can't accept saying that this is one social compensation because we're not ultimately the social ministry. He deals with such problems with each other's ministries. This is one calculation that we think is appropriate to today's circumstances of our present possibilities, and it seems to me that it has been crystallized in today's debate that this is one step forward that we have long expected and talked about for a very long time, after a long and reasoned debate we have come up with a solution that we hold to be sustainable in the long term. What can certainly be discussed is the issue of the age limit, which means whether 55, 60 years. We are aware that investing in top-notch sports at the earliest age actually in one way that Serbian representative was talking about sacrificing his education. It is therefore, of course, difficult to find adequate employment after the end of a sports career and to make adequate incomes. And I think there's talk in that part. In comparison with neighbouring countries, we have also conducted one analysis and have actually come to the realization that there are no such fees in EU countries. So there is one proposal that is in the procedure in Hungary and countries that have such compensations in the environment are Serbia, BiH and recently Macedonia's recent success of their basketball players at the championship. So we hold that this proposal is long-term sustainable, we think that one big step forward and, of course, when this economic situation and the growth of our standard, the growth of the GDP, the growth of the average wages as it happens, will grow and the value of this limit, and also the value of the lasting cash compensation for our athletes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80388	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met. It would end today's session. Tomorrow we will proceed at 9.30 p.m. with point no. 9, which is the report on the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80389	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, the emergency procedure was P.Z. No. 891, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sport Act. It was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 891. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Legislatives. I ask that the proposaler's representative be shown about the amendments, Mr Stipe Mamic. State Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Mommy. Amendment to Article 4
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80390	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Proposer shall adopt amendments to the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-20-0.u80391	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Let us please include and vote on the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Sport Act. Thank you. Danesh Shaw. I'm a colleague of Shaw's. Thank you. Score. This final bill was adopted by a majority of 75 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, nothing against, together with accepted amendments. Good morning, ladies or gentlemen, here's the lady I greet you only otherwise there are no more present. We are crossing as announced on the agenda item - Report on the Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the legal authority of the Government has submitted this report on the basis of Article 3. The Act on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's power to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section of the regulations. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Ruđer Friganovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. That's what he'll believe very concisely. Thank you. Here you go.
