ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71561	Let's move on to the agenda. - Final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Programme for Interoperable Solutions for the European Public Administration (ISA), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 732. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget. State Secretary of the Central State Office for e-Croatia, Igor Lučić will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71562	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, distinguished MPs and MPs. Interoperable solutions for the European public administration are a Union programme aimed at facilitating and speeding up the exchange of information and provision of electronic administration services between both administrative sectors and between countries. The benefit of participating in ISA activities primarily stems from the possibility of using common solutions developed under this programme. This programme lasts from 2010 to 2015 and has a budget of 164m euros. It represents the continuation of activities initiated under the Community Programme on the interoperability of the provision of European cross-border electronic services to public authorities in public administrations, entrepreneurs and citizens under the heading... and in which the Republic of Croatia actively participated until the end of 2009 when it ceased to apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A prerequisite for participation in this Union Programme is the Memorandum of Understanding which defines the general principles and provisions of participation of financial contributions, i.e. payment of membership fees. Payment funds are secured in the budget of the Central State Office for e-Croatia, with the annual amount of national co-financing gradually increasing until the end of this programme, in order to stop entering the European Union, so that the obligation to pay the membership fee. It is also important to stress that part of the membership fee will be financed from the IPA pre-accession programme. So national funding for this year will amount to 9847 euros. Next year, 20 thousand and 299 euros. The Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on Croatia's participation in the Programme for Interoperable Solutions for the European Public Administration was negotiated during 2010 and signed in January 26th of this year. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71563	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Finance Committee, the State Budget? I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here I will begin by saying that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Programme of Interoperable Solutions for the European Public Administration. So, a program called ISA. At the very beginning, it should be pointed out that the nature of the process of confirming international contracts actually has three and always has three basic characteristics. The first of them is that the state, hence the Republic of Croatia and formally expresses its willingness to accept both rights and obligations assumed but already signed international contracts. The second or second characteristic is that in the process of confirmation, therefore ratifications are generally not possible to amend and supplement the text of the signed international contract. And the third or third characteristic is that the law is in the confirmation, and the basis of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Articles 140, 141, so these provisions of the law, and the norms become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and are legally above the law. Furthermore, the said Memorandum of Understanding is firstly governed by the general principles, then the deadlines, but what is most important for the highlighted and conditions for the granting of financial and other assistance in terms of establishing and improving the provision of cross-border services to state administrations and other public authorities in the Republic of Croatia and national administrations of Member States of the European Union, and cross-border provision of services to domestic and foreign persons from Member States of the European Union. Furthermore, this proposal for a law is based on the conclusion of the European Council of 2003, then on the framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community on the general principles of participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Community programme of 22 November 2004. It is noted that the programme basis, therefore, was established by a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council adopted on 19 September 2009, and the very memorandum of understanding was signed on 21 January 2011. It is necessary, in particular to point out that the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding is precisely a prerequisite for opening up the possibility of representatives of the Republic of Croatia to participate in the work of the managing committees, but not of self-management committees, but of expert groups of ISA programmes which form a form for the coordination of national policies for the development of electronic administration. That's the core I would dare say and the essence of this bill in terms of fulfilling those assumptions. Finally, it is noted that the funds needed to implement this law are secured in such a way that 75% of the amounts will be co-financed by the European Union fund, while the rest of the membership fee will be co-financed from the budget of the Republic of Croatia and by the dynamics as stated in the reasoning of the law itself. In line with everything exposed, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives absolutely supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71565	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU, Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for this law confirms a Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Interoperable Solutions for the European Public Administration programme, signed in Brussels on 26 January 2011, and provides for the duration of the programme from 2010 to 2015. The proposed law regulates the general principles, deadlines and conditions of participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union ISA programme to grant financial and other assistance to the European Union, which would establish or improve the provision of cross-border services to national administrations and other public authorities in the Republic of Croatia, and the national administrations of Member States of the European Union, and cross-border provision of services to domestic and foreign persons from Member States of the European Union. The draft law further defines financial obligations, but also rights. The signing of a Memorandum of Understanding is a prerequisite for opening the possibility of participation of representatives of the Republic of Croatia in the work of the Management Board and of a number of special expert groups of ISA programmes, which is a forum for the coordination of national policies, the development of electronic administration. For these reasons, the HNS Club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71567	Thank you very much. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71568	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have before us a proposal for a Law to confirm the memorandum of understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the programme of interoperability solutions for the European public administration, which is therefore the basis of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the memorandum was signed with the European Commission on 3 December 2010, so it was signed in Brussels on 26 January, and the Government's decision was on 3 December. To become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, its ratification in the Croatian Parliament is required, in accordance with the provisions of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and as this memorandum has been put forward, constitutes the legal basis for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in activities under the ISA of the European Union programme, namely a programme aimed at bringing national policies into line with the development of the electronic administration, and the provision of cross-border services to administrative authorities and public authorities, namely the Republic of Croatia and members of the European Union. It is also a prerequisite for the inclusion of Croatian representatives in the work of the management board and ISA expert groups. As regards financial commitments, as it is said, they are shown through the financial contribution of the Republic of Croatia, through the membership fee to be paid, with part of that membership fee being co-financed by the European Union IPA Fund. As regards the wording of the memorandum itself, since it is already a signed international contract and at this stage of the procedure cannot make its amendments and additions, so amendments and additions to its text, I will therefore support its adoption, given the possibility of using the funds already for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71569	Thank you. Mr. Representative Daniel Srb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71570	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So this proposal for a final proposal for a bill to confirm the memorandum of understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the programme of interoperability solutions for the European public administration of ISA, although I am quite reserved when it comes to the whole process of the conclusion of negotiations and Croatia's involvement in the European Union itself, I will support this bill because it will actually encourage one need for a serious debate in Croatia on the state of public administration, the need for its improvement, the acceleration of the system because we have just received news today that Croatia has fallen 3 places in the last year on the competitiveness scale in information, information technologies. Also last year, Croatia has fallen to the global level of competitiveness of the economy, and it is the public institutions and public administration that are the reason for the decline in competition of the Croatian economy to the greatest extent possible. So this is one system that absolutely deserves one promotion. It is absolutely inappropriate today for the census to be carried out as it seemed a hundred years ago that censusors were walking practically from person to person, from house to house to record the population, instead of solving the work via electronic means, so that information technologies would register their own data, which would significantly speed up the process, significantly reduce costs and improve the entire system. Of course, the result is one slow action, and in this segment, in fact, in the last 20 years, Croatia has made itself quite complicated. Here are some examples. For example, when Croatian citizens report the birth of a child, the system is so complicated that it is necessary for young parents to take several vacation days to visit all state institutions and report the birth of a child. It was one system that, 20 years ago, was incomparably simpler. In fact, it is possible that different by giving statements, signatures, agreements and consent on the name of the child, etc., some other later problems are being prevented between parents, but the system is complicated to this extent that it has actually become extremely inefficient. Or, on many occasions, a copy of the birth, marriage or other document of no more than 3 months, 6 months or so is required of Croatian citizens. A copy of the birth certificate is a life-long document, and it should always be recognized as such. And not that we're wasting our social energy sending employees to practically waste their working hours, making other expenses so they can stand in line in front of public administration institutions and extract documents that are objectively needed and not necessary. That is why I absolutely support the idea of modernising the entire system, the introduction of these basic documents in electronic form available to all citizens so that they do not unnecessarily walk as it seemed 100 years ago to different institutions that issue public documents. That's why I support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71571	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71572	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, we are going to vote on the final points of the agenda. Please turn yourself back on to see what's wrong with the quorum and make sure you're back online. 89 per this we have a quorum, but another 20 plus. We are going to vote on the items of the agenda that have been discussed and concluded. 1. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the EU on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Programme for Interoperable Solutions for the European Public Administration (ISA), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 732 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the EU on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Programme for Interoperable Solutions for the European Public Administration (ISA). Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 103 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71573	We're moving on to the next point. - The final proposal of the Law amending the State Aid Act is an emergency procedure. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget and European Integration. State Secretary at the finance ministry Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71574	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, a few sentences on the draft Act amending the State Support Act. The State aid law is in fact governed by the general terms and conditions and rules of approval of the supervision, implementation and recovery of state aid. In view of the fact that the new General Administrative Procedure Act had entered into force, the content of the existing State Support Act had to be harmonised with that law. In order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, the following amendments have been made to the State Aid Act. The first and primary mention of the sub-application of the General Administrative Procedure Act, the approval and control procedure of the implementation, i.e. the reimbursement of State aid, and in the event of suspension of the procedure, is deleted, and the decision is taken, not the conclusion that so far has been reached. It should also be pointed out that some additional amendments to the State aid Act have been made regarding the conduct of the Competition Protection Agency itself. First, by order of the Agency for the Protection of Competition in the event of illegality or irregularity, a certain amount of State aid will be returned increased by the amount of the basic reference interest rate increased by 100 basis points, not as so far as it has been increased by the amount of legally tightened interest. The Competition Protection Agency will also be obliged to submit to the Croatian Assembly for adoption of the Annual Report on State aid for the previous year during the current year, not as so far as it has been written by 30 June of the current year. First and foremost, in order to provide more time for the production of a report itself, which is quite comprehensive in terms of the extent and extent of the amount of data that the Agency cannot collect, or be used within a very short period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71575	Thank you. Legislative, finance and state budget committees, European integration? I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of HNS-HSU Mr. Representative Zlatko Koračević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS-HSU Club will support this proposal for a Law amending the State Support Act. First, because this matter is in line with EU legislation. Second, since 1 January 2010, the new General Administrative Procedure Act has been in force and this proposal of the State Aid Act is in line with the General Law on Administrative Procedure, since the general conditions, the rules of approval, the control of the implementation and recovery of State aid are implemented in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act and it is therefore important to amend this law. At the same time, tight interest is redefined, in the event of asset recovery irregularities, is aligned with EU practice and rights. And in any case three times less interest on this proposal than it was so far is one of the support and all those receiving state support. And thirdly, also important, and this is that there is no longer a deadline until 30.06. when the Agency has to submit a State aid report to the Croatian Assembly since the system of recipients of state aid is not available or at least practice has so far shown that it is not able to comply with that deadline, so we have generally always had incomplete reports. The fourth thing I want to say on behalf of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party Club and on this Proposal for a Law amending the law on State aid to formalise or better coordinate state support, however, essentially in the state support that we talked about when we discussed the report, related to state support, nothing changes. The state aid system itself should have been the result of an economic policy of a successful economic policy which, unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not yet able to implement, and for the sole reason of the need for harmonisation, we will support this proposal for a law on state aid, but we would like to stress the need to amend the state support system itself, but in order to change it is absolutely necessary to change economic policies, unfortunately the years pass, time passes, our entrepreneurs, our economy did not get that opportunity, and in order to develop at the right time and time and environment and ultimately the needs. Because of this form, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71577	Thank you. The HDZ Club Mr. Representative Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71578	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State with fellow esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club also supports the adoption of the Law amending the State Aid Act, we have heard the most important technical changes to this existing Act, and it should only be pointed out that it is good to coordinate the level of the tight interest, i.e. the way in which the return of funds is calculated when irregularities or illegality are established in the use of state aid because so far the beneficiaries of state aid in the Republic of Croatia have been in a more unfavourable position than the beneficiaries of state aid in the European Union. So in our return calculations, they accounted for 17% interest while this proposal changes when they were adopted after a new calculation of the amount of return on funds is somewhere between 6 and 6.5% depending on the reference interest rate that varies. This certainly equates the way in Croatia with the practice and way in the European Union so that it is good and that it should certainly be supported. There was also a visible problem of the Competition Protection Agency during the delivery to the Croatian Assembly of State aid reports which was quite scarce and with delay, the deadline for the delivery of the report by 31st time has now been extended. 12 instead of 30. 6. and there is enough time for this Report to be quality, content and to include everything that is important in the use of support. It is important to stress that in the past year there was not a single order for the return of illegal or method of using non-compliant support. Therefore, there was no need for intervention of the Competition Protection Agency and that, other than two administrative disputes to be conducted, no recovery order was issued which was incorrectly used. Therefore, the HDZ Club supports this amendment to the State aid Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71579	Thank you. Individual debate, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71580	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As already mentioned in the introduction, this legislative proposal brings the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legislation of the European Union, and provides a statement of its compliance with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. Therefore, in the opening statement, the Government representative pointed out that certain provisions of the proposed Law are in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and, in addition, the proposed Law states that, in the event of the return of a certain amount of State aid due to illegal or incorrect use, legal tightened interest is no longer charged, but, at the request of the Competition Protection Agency, the amount of aid increased by the amount of the basic reference rate increased for those percentage points, so we put entrepreneurs and the return obligations, let us say in an appropriate position with regard to other users of these types of services. It is also said that in the event of a suspension of the procedure itself, solutions are made and no conclusion is reached as set out in your State Aid Act and it is the obligation of the Competition Protection Agency to... It shall submit to the Parliament an annual report on market aid until 30 June and shall be made available by the end of the year. The State aid law, or the State aid Act, determines both the general conditions and the rule of approval, the control of the implementation and the return itself, and the procedure for granting State aid to control and the implementation of State aid and its return shall be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. As the new General Administrative Procedure Act came into force on 1 January 2010, the content of the State Aid Act had to be harmonised with it, and in particular for the reason that Article 7 of the State Aid Act mentions an exemption from the application of a specific Article 266 which is now an invalid law on the general administrative procedure. The need to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act was laid down in the government's conclusion in October 2010. As we have already said, it will no longer be mentioned in the Act on State aid to the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act, except for Article 266 or its indirect application, but the general application of the General Administrative Procedure Act will be. It is important once again to make it clear that... by harmonising and changing the return of support in the event of illegal use and the change from that tight shape, which is 17 or 16%. The new form actually helps entrepreneurs, not getting into the essence of why the support must be returned, but as we heard from Mr. Marić last year, there was actually no need to return. Accordingly, I will support the proposal to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71581	Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71582	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will, of course, support this Law on State aid and its amendment. And I'm going to say a few words about the State Aid Act itself, which regulates the general conditions and rules of approval, control of implementation and recovery of state aid. Moreover, the procedure for granting State aid, supervision and the implementation of State aid and the reimbursement of State aid is also implemented in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Thus, on 1 January of last 2010, a new Law on General Administrative Procedure entered into force. It was necessary to align the content and the State aid law with it. This law has made amendments to the State aid Act and to the calculation of the amount of State aid to be recovered under the order of the Competition Protection Agency in the event of illegality or irregularities in their application. Therefore, after the entry into force of this law under the order of the Competition Protection Agency, a certain amount of State aid will be recovered, not as more legally tightened interest so far, but as the basic reference rates increased by 100 phase points. The Law amending the State Aid Act will remove the obligations of the Competition Protection Agency to deliver the annual report to the Croatian Parliament on State aid by 30 June of the current year, as it has been so far, and it will be obliged to submit this report for the previous and previous year in the current year, thus providing more time for the preparation of the report itself. This stems from the fact that certain state aid providers are unable to provide the Agency with the requested data by half of June 30th, and the same is due to the absence of an analytical review of the approved support. The annual accounts of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the previous year are also available in June of the current year, and it is one of the basic documents necessary for the preparation of the annual State aid report. The development of the report by the end of the current year is in line with EU practice, which publishes its annual report on state aid to the European Commission, i.e. the European Commission at the end of the current year. I believe that state support remains an extremely important instrument for state aid to entrepreneurs, agricultural producers, local and regional (regional) self-government units, many other state support users, in order to balance economic development, in order to level out the development of municipal infrastructure, in order to balance the development of education, health and other factors of our society throughout the Republic of Croatia. For all these reasons, I support the adoption of this law, as well as the existence of the State Aid Act, because unfortunately there are many more units of local self-government, a lot of entrepreneurs, a lot of agricultural producers who need this type of state aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71583	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71584	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law on State aid, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 739. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on State aid. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This bill was adopted unanimously with 101 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71585	We are going to the next item - Final draft law amending the Customs Service Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 736 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the sessions. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Maric will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71586	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government therefore proposed amendments and additions to the Customs Service Act, as well as in the previous case, that is, in the proposal for a Law amending State aid in order to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, and also in one provision in order to bring the Customs Service Act in line with the Excise Taxation Act which has also entered into force. As regards this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act, the basic amendment concerns the alignment of the deadlines for frogs extending from 8 to 15 days, and the harmonisation with the terminology of the applicable Law on General Administrative Procedure by removing the concept of finality from the legal text. In addition, as regards compliance with the Taxation Act, the concept of a excise offence is introduced in a way that proposes a clear distinction between a customs offence and the concept of a excise offence in view of the specificity of the normative arrangement of the customs or excise system, and also the notional need to separate or punishable acts of violation of the customs system rules and of a new excise system whose application has begun with effect from the entry into force of the Taxation Act. Let me also finally say that the Government accepts the proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71587	Thank you. The Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget? I'm opening a debate. Ms. Mariana Petir's club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71588	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. The HSS MPs' club will support the Customs Service Act's proposal. It is, in effect, a normative harmonisation of procedural provisions of the Customs Service Act with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which fulfils the obligations laid down in Chapter 23 – Justice and Fundamental Rights. This law also proposes to bring the provisions of the Customs Service Act in line with the rules governing the implementation of the infringement procedure under the jurisdiction of the Customs Service with the Taxation Act in a way that introduces and defines and elaborates the concepts of customs and excise offences. Since we are talking about customs services, I would like to take the opportunity here to mention that the Customs Administration, within its organisation or reorganisation, has been planning permanent savings. And in that proposal, I also found the opportunity to abolish the standoffs in Sisak and Kutina, which we at the HSS Club also reacted to as a representative, but all the businessmen in Sisak-Moslavina County. So here I want to point out to the secretary of state that I am glad that our arguments are respected. We've received an answer to the customs station in Kutina and Sisko remain. We consider it extremely important in the HSS club because it is precisely the area that large exporters of the Republic of Croatia such as Petrokemija Kutina, such as Gavrilović Petrinja, such as Vivera Glina, such as Selk in Kutina, and those who, by their total trade exchange, make over a billion dollars of foreign trade traffic so that there is no special need to stress the great importance of these customs facilities in Kutina and Sisak. For example, this customs station in Kutina performs a customs procedure for large economic operators not only from Kutina but also from Novska, but also for all those areas that engraving the Kutins, such as Gareshnica, Ivanić City, Chazma, Pakrac, Lipik and the fact that the Customs Station Kutina is located on the highway Zagreb-Belgrade represents one comparative position, the advantage of this customs station and I am glad that these arguments were crucial in deciding that the Customs Station in Kutina remains operational. It is also important to highlight the long-term historical role of the Customs Exhibition in Sisak where significant investments are present, where we have large business owners such as CMC, Applied ceramics, the Sisak Oil Refinery as well as those cities that engravite the Carinska complex in Sisak - Glina, Kostajnica, Petrinja, which also contain large businessmen such as Weavera, TIM Topusko, Gavrilovica, Pounja. At the same time, I must say that it is planned to build two ports on the Sava River, which is of course conditioned by Sava, and Sisak as a railway hub is extremely important. And, of course, the end of the Sisak-Zagreb highway will certainly lead to an increase in investment in this area and therefore, this Customs Exposition in Sisak is extremely important to us. So, both the inflow of capital and the presence of new investments is certainly partly conditioned and the existence of these two customs facilities in Kutina and Sisak and I repeat, we at the HSS club thank our arguments accepted and that these two customs bases remain operational. Of course, I also have to mention the importance of these customs facilities for our food industry that works in the area because and because of the health regularity of food that is important for the producers themselves, but also for us as consumers, it is important for customs offices to be close to the producers and this is an additional argument why customs exposures in Kutina and Sisak are important. What we in the HSS Club often repeat and what we would like to point out once again when we talk about food and food products, we advocate that these measures are indeed those of the entry of food products into Croatia, the controls of that entry are being carefully monitored and it is precisely on customs duty. We think it is the right place to prevent the entry of what does not have adequate quality, what does not fit the regulations of the Republic of Croatia and what is not good for our consumers, and what threatens both the Croatian village and Croatian agriculture and the Croatian food industry. The Croatian Peasants' Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71589	Thank you. HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71590	Mr. Chairman, dear fellow Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Here is the proposal for a law amending the Customs Service Act which, I say immediately, will support the HDZ Club. The proposed law lays down the normative harmonisation of procedural provisions of the Customs Service Act with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which also fulfils one obligation under Chapter 23-Court and Fundamental Rights. It is also proposed to align the provisions of the Customs Service Act which regulate the issue of the enforcement of the infringement procedure under the jurisdiction of the Customs Service with the Taxation Act and, in a way that the terms of customs and excise offences are introduced, defined and elaborated in detail. Just to remind you, the Customs Service Act entered into force on 23 July 2009 and clearly, the law provides for the establishment, detour, management of customs services, the powers of customs officials and specialities in the labour and material rights of customs officials themselves, their disciplinary trial. In 2006, the government concluded that the central authority of the state administration is obliged to draw up proposals for amending and supplementing the laws in the administrative areas and within the framework of the established section, in order to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In accordance with the proposed amendments and additions made to the Customs Service Act, the regulatory harmonisation of procedural provisions of the Customs Service Act with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act is carried out, which also fulfils the obligations laid down in Chapter 23-Court and Fundamental Rights, and in the light of the harmonisation of those procedural provisions of the Specific Law, and with the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is also proposed to bring the provisions of the Customs Service Act in line with the issue of the enforcement of the infringement procedure under the jurisdiction of the customs service, and with the Taxation Act, whose application began in 1.1.2010, as well as with the applicable infringement legislation. The basis for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure is set out in Article 159. The Rules of Procedure, since this is the harmonisation of these specific laws and with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, is one of the conditions for closing negotiations with the European Union and in Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights. So when we talk about articles of the law, maybe just a few words, a sentence about some provisions. In particular, Article 43 shall also be amended accordingly, and its title should be aligned with the contents of the articles following that amended provision of Article 43. The laws introduce, define and elaborate the terms of customs and excise offences. In relation to the current provision, a clear distinction is proposed, i.e. a clear distinction between the concept of a customs offence and the concept of a excise offence, and given the specificity of the normative arrangement of the customs and excise system and the need for conceptual separation or criminal acts of violation of the rules of the customs system and of the new excise system. Furthermore, it was also necessary to regulate the way in which the customs and customs offences and excise infringement proceedings were carried out and to comply with the basic principles of criminal law. The proposed amendment to Article 44 also details the arrangements for the conduct of a customs offence and excise infringement proceedings, and proposes the application of the newly introduced concepts of customs offence and excise infringement proceedings in relation to the existing provision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The general administrative procedure law, and the deadline, and in the context of the deadline for appeal against the transfer solution, is proposed for a period of 15 days instead of 8 days. In addition, one proposed amendment to Article 80(1) of the Law also complies with Article 109 of the Treaty. The law on general administrative procedure, the time limit for appeals against the decision of the first-degree disciplinary court of the Customs Administration, and, instead of 8 days, the deadline for appeal shall be 15 days. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on general administrative procedure and on the time limit for filing an appeal against a decision on a distance from the service. Instead of eight days, a 15-day appeal deadline is proposed. The proposed amendment to paragraph 5 of Article 82 also results in the fact that the conditions under which the decision becomes enforceable are governed by the provision of Article 133. The General Administrative Procedure Act, therefore, is excessively prescribed that the decision on the appeal has been made. It is clear that the overall work of the customs service is extremely important for the economy of the Republic of Croatia both in the context of customs controls themselves. But also in the context of the action of us as countries within Europe, and still not within the framework of the European Union today, which means that the quality and mode of operation of the customs service itself has a significant impact on both quality and speed of the flow of goods both from the borders of the Republic of Croatia towards Europe and in the Republic of Croatia. In today's time of rapid economic growth when we talk about a part of the European Union's countries after the crisis every day, the flow of goods is extremely important for economic factors, and in this context it is clear how quality is defined, but then the importance of the work of the customs service itself. The HDZ Club supports the adoption, i.e. the Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71591	Thank you. SDP representative's club, Mrs. Representative Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71592	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The reason for these amendments to the current Customs Service Act, which has been in force since 23 July 2009, as the State Secretary has first said, is actually a double. On the one hand, it is about harmonising with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, which actually fulfils the obligations set out in Chapter 23. – The judiciary and fundamental human rights which require the procedural provisions of specific laws in the specific case of the Customs Service Act to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. On the other hand, it is a matter of harmonising with the Taxation Act in the part of the implementation of the infringement procedure under the jurisdiction of the Customs Service. As regards the harmonisation of procedural provisions of the Customs Service Act with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, the most important amendments relate to the extension of the period from 8 to 15 days in cases where the appeal is lodged and in four cases. Therefore, against a solution to temporarily relocate officials to a second post, against a decision in the proceedings due to an easy violation of official duty, against a decision in the proceedings due to a serious violation of official duty and against a decision on distance from the service. In addition to this harmonisation of the procedural provisions, appropriate territorial harmonisation of the provisions of the Customs Service Act with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act has been carried out in such a way that the term on the finality of the decision so far used in the Customs Service Act is substituted by the term ‘Decision’, as defined in the General Administrative Procedure Act. When it comes to the harmonisation of the Customs Service Act with the Taxation Act, it is important to stress that this legislative proposal introduces a clear distinction between a customs offence and a excise offence. In fact, only the concept of a customs offence is known in the current Customs Service Act, and as it entered into force in early 2010, it was also necessary to regulate the way in which the excise infringement procedure was conducted in view of the specificity of the normative arrangement of the excise system in relation to customs. This is the latest harmonisation of Chapter 23 for Croatia in the negotiating process of the Republic of Croatia and the support of this SDP legal proposal cannot be questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71593	Thank you. HNS Club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71594	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. We have a technical proposal to amend the Customs Service Act, but we are reading some very important information from it. First of all, it is a matter of harmonising a very important law with the acquis of the European Union, i.e. to act according to the criteria defined in the negotiations on the so-called ‘EU’. Chapter 23, which is very important. It's about one area. Its essential characteristics are that it is definitely equated with the proceedings, so all proceedings of the appeal or the conduct of the infringements in customs terms are equated with those of the procedures which prevail in the general administrative procedure. In fact, we have discovered another information, which is that so far part of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia has distinguished the classical administrative procedures from one another, and now we are under pressure from those who know little more about it and who have clearly studied Croatian legislation carefully, had to return to the frameworks of logic, and that is that every infringement procedure, whether it is customs or excise nature, must actually be treated as administrative procedure and must be understood under those provisions and rules which define the General Administrative Procedure Act. Of course, we have nothing against such a solution, even as much as the HNS and HSU club will support these reports, but I must say here that every honour to Secretary of State Marić, he is one of the people we most often see on behalf of the Ministry of Finance in this House, but this was an opportunity among other things for the government to present to us the new Head of Customs Administration, whom she appointed at the closed part of the session on 18 February of this year, and we do not see why, if nothing else accompanied by Mr. Marić as an experienced secretary of state, he did not come to see him very little and the Croatian Assembly, to see who got into the hands of the management of a very important service, after that famous experience with one person who was the generator of an entire series of affairs in the Republic of Croatia. The head of the customs administration, as you know, is highly positioned, and has a double role in terms of the State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, it would also be good to hear something about Hrvoje Covic, a gentleman appointed to the post. All we know so far is that he was head of a customs station in Vukovar. It would not be bad, therefore, if the Government showed a higher level in this regard, if nothing else cooperated with the Croatian Parliament, so she took advantage of this opportunity to present the person who took up such a high, important, not only in the operational sense, but also in the sense of preserving the fissus of the Republic of Croatia, and this place as director of the customs administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71595	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Zeljka Antunovic. She's gone. Mr. Attorney Gordan Maras. He's gone. Mr. Representative Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71596	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, it is clear that the basic reason for the amendments to this law, as well as the whole series of laws that we are discussing today and at this session, is the administration and amendment of the Administrative Procedure Act, or the ZUP, which is one of the conditions for closing Chapter 23. But a few words about the reasons and the amendment of this law. It is known that the Customs Service Act entered into force on 23 July 2009 and that this law regulates the structure, the section, the management of customs services, the authority, i.e. responsibilities of customs officials, as well as particularities in the labour and material rights of customs officials, i.e. disciplinary trial. On 6 October last year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded that the central authorities of the state administration are obliged to make amendments and amendments to the laws of the administrative areas, within the framework of the established section, to comply with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, and therefore this law is now in front of us on the agenda of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with all of the above proposed amendments and additions to the Customs Service Act, the regulatory harmonisation of the procedural provisions of the Customs Service Act with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act is carried out, while also fulfilling the obligations laid down in Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights, in the light of the alignment of procedural provisions of the special law with the General Administrative Procedure Act. This law also proposes the harmonisation of the provisions of the Customs Service Act, which regulate the implementation of the infringement procedure, from the jurisdiction of the customs service to the 2009 Taxation Act, whose application began in 1.1.2010, as well as the applicable infringement legislation. I want to pass on a few thoughts of entrepreneurs from the field, problems and positive things they face using our customs service, or customs service. A positive thing is the availability of customs facilities, a good network of customs facilities, and the possibility that entrepreneurs get that good network relatively close to the headquarters of their companies and use it. The negative thinking of entrepreneurs is going towards high pens, i.e. the fees paid for the longer retention of goods, i.e. equipment at customs facilities, so that there is no long weekend intervention of entrepreneurs from the area of the Lipika company Gamauf, which is part of the plant's equipment for the production of pellets held at the customs office in Kutina, partly by the guilt of the natural entrepreneur, partly due to the weekend, where they paid practically an hour's stay and equipment at the customs office, i.e. the customs post several hundred kunas. These are things that I can trust to change without any major problems, and to meet our importers, exporters who use customs stations, customs services to do even better business with Europe and the whole world. Of course I support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71597	Thank you. Mr. Representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71598	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. They say that someone who can say something in 10 words, and excuses 20, or is willing to deceive or deceive you. I'm not ready for either of them, so I'm just saying in 10 words that I support the adoption of these amendments, because the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted should have 15 days enough time to prepare for the appeal procedure, not 8 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71599	Thank you. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71600	In this proposal for a Law amending the Customs Service Act, as a final proposal, it is, of course, to indicate that I support this harmonisation with the General Administrative Procedure Act, which therefore installs the jurisdiction of the administrative court in a substantive and measuring sense. However, as it is said about the final bill, it is also necessary to say something about the functioning of the customs service itself. Namely, the alpha and omega of the customs service in the morning, and not only customs services, but the way and methodology of the functioning of the entire state, the man who is now Mladen Barisic, now in custody, or in custody, against whom the proceedings are being conducted, and whom the party as his character has given up, but not his works. A colleague here, speaking on behalf of the HNS club, spoke about which person it was, is a little known to the public, who stood at the head of the Customs Administration. But maybe that's not the most important thing. The most important thing is to say that the system, the way, and all the people who were of the most trust Mladen Barisic remained in place. It is illusory to expect that relations in customs and customs modes will be able to change these people. However, it remained the same. Over 100 pages have been filed by the Independent Customs Union to explain all the applications. Nobody said a word about it. There is a question not only of protection at work to protect the interests and safety of the customs officers themselves, why it does not work and why it did not deal with the leader in the morning at all, and it is not a new one. Because it reveals essentially the functioning of not only environmental protection but primarily customs terminal objects. The question arises while Barisic was head of the Customs Administration, he has just transferred the customs terminal to Dugopolje. Of course, when it started to talk about it, and to the great insistence behind it that the Independent Union itself was hidden after leaving the customs terminal was removed again in Split in the North Port. However, I say, it remained completely unexplored to whom and whose goose and her fat neck were caressing. In what way did they work warehouses, owned by them, how could this happen? Because you can see that it's given up. As well as how it was manipulated by goods. The question also arises what about packages serving as a customs terminal where one service is charged. Who is charged when such objects do not have a valid permit at all? So, one big mess, one big... He remained in the Customs Administration alone without any will or desire to be taken care of, or at least not seen by customs officers who are diligently doing their job, who have constantly and then turned their attention to these things, turn away even now, and the only epilogue we can see is that they are being conducted against such persons in disciplinary proceedings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, gentlemen, there is no fight against corruption, that those who point out, who document such doubts, not out of some corruption or whim, that there is no feedback on these applications, and yet very quickly such persons end up in a disciplinary court. It is not a solution for the Customs Administration only to change a man but you have to change the way he works because these are huge financial interests for the Republic of Croatia which, unfortunately, have often been poured into private pockets through such a mechanism. And I don't know if that stream's closed that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71601	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, Antičević-Marinović, you have well noticed that, to say manipulations, abuses, crime and everything else that happens in customs administrations. Namely, one of the best examples was a whistler or whistler who worked at Slavonski Brod at the Customs Administration and who reported it neatly, documenting all the malversions that took place in the Customs Administration. Unfortunately, she's been out of work for a year and a half, two days. In vain, the whistle-playing association and everything else you say has no feedback or any process or procedure that would sanction it or at least resolve whether it is correct or not on application. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71603	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71604	3. Final proposal of the Law amending the Customs Service Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 736. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. A businessman. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Customs Service Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The bill was adopted by the majority of 99 votes in favour of, 2 abstentions, nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71605	We're moving on to the next point. - The final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Communist Economy is the same emergency procedure. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs and Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Alexander Russo will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71606	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. This is about the need for certain provisions of the Law on the municipal economy to be brought into line with the new Law on General Administrative Procedure. The law in question also complies with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Law on Violation. This harmonisation is proposed in a way that amends, i.e., the provisions of the law governing issues already regulated in the same way by the General Administrative Procedure Act, that is, the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. And it concerns the deadline for making a solution, the possibility of starting a administrative dispute and the jurisdiction to resolve complaints. In relation to the Law on Infringements, I propose a terminology of the prosecution proposal instead of a request to initiate a misdemeanour procedure. The adoption of the proposed law is necessary in order to meet the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71607	Thank you. Committees – legislation, spatial planning and construction? I'm opening a debate. HNS-HSU representative's club, Ms. Danica Hursa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal of the law is also about the harmonisation of the Law on the municipal economy, above all, with the General Administrative Procedure Act, which removes the possibility of starting a administrative dispute and making an appeal, as this is the case with the new General Administrative Procedure Act. Further harmonisation under the proposed law goes to erase the possibility of making a complaint to the administrative body of the county, or the City of Zagreb, because these are prescribed by the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Further harmonisation goes with the Infringement Act as it is proposed in the part of the provisions relating to fines for the delivery of municipal services and responsible persons in such a way that the request to initiate the infringement is replaced by an explicit proposal. And at the end of this amendment to the law, it is necessary to meet the criteria for opening Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. Errors in quoting the provisions to Article 6 have been removed by the Legislative Committee. And finally, just one small question to Mr. Secretary of State, why we don't have the benches announced and a new proposal for a law on the municipal economy. The HNS HSU Club will support this proposal for amendments and additions to the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71609	Thank you. The club of HDZ representatives Ms. Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71610	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. So today we are mainly discussing those laws that must comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and this law on the communal economy of a procedural nature, which means that it is in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and today we will also be discussing a series of laws that we are tasked with doing. In addition to harmonising with the General Administrative Procedure, this Law on the municipal economy is in line with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the Law on Infringements in Part of the provision relating to fines for public service providers and responsible persons in such a way as to impose a request for the initiation of the infringement procedure is replaced by the statement of the indictment. Thus far, the Law on the Communist Economy has stated that when a municipal director makes a decision afterwards, the parties have the right to appeal to the county, that is, if the city of Zagreb is the Ministry. This section is now deleted and otherwise the provisions of such a nature are deleted because it is already established by the Law on Units of Local and Regional Self-Government, so it should not be repeated in these specific laws. These amendments and additions to this Act and to all laws that comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act must be adopted in order to bring us into line and close Chapter 23, which is extremely important for the Croatian government and for all of us because this judiciary and fundamental human rights should definitely be completed. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support amendments to the laws on the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71611	Thank you. An individual debate by Ms. Djurdice Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, we need a brief discussion here and indeed everyone who spoke on behalf of the clubs has said the most important, and this is this proposal for a law amending the Law on the Communist Economy. It is important to say that the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure is proposed in order to ensure the rapid harmonisation of this Act with the municipal economy and with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Since the General Administrative Procedure Act was adopted and entered into force on 1 January 2010, in accordance with the conclusion of the Government, certain provisions of the Law on the municipal economy of the procedural nature were necessary to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act as from 6 October 2010, in a way that some of the provisions were amended or deleted. In its opening statement, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction pointed out that the amendments to certain provisions of the applicable law on the municipal economy of the procedural nature are in line with the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and Administration. They shall be harmonised by law in the part of the provisions relating to fines for public service providers and responsible persons in such a way as to replace the request to initiate the infringement procedure with the statement of the indictment. The implementation of this Act does not require additional resources from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Why is this even more important to bring in an emergency procedure? This is to bring this law in line and meet the criteria for closing Chapter 23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71613	Thank you. Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71614	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, we have heard through clubs in connection with these amendments and additions to the laws on the municipal economy, so in general what is really and what is the fundamental intention it is related to Chapter 23, i.e. the correction and entry into the Criminal Law, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Regional and Self-Government, the units of local self-government. In particular, I will mention here, this is about the decisions of the representative body or the unit of local self-government from the municipal activity and concerning the maintenance of the cemetery, the crematorium, which we also discussed in this House, so that decisions by that representative body can therefore be made to natural and legal persons, etc., cannot be against this administrative act, which would have been taken and the decision taken by the representative body cannot be made any longer to appeal to the administrative body of the county. So that's fundamental change and it's important to me and it's good, because it's passed on to what we actually have already in the law, maybe this should have been a little different, maybe it shouldn't have been in this way. Similarly, it relates to the carrying out of municipal activities financed exclusively from its budget, re-applying to the fact that the re-representative body can re-engage certain municipal activities as such to collect offers etc. and give to legal individuals. We have discussed here the amendment of the law on concessions also, in this sense we should say that again it is all stated that it is all the gathering of public tender representative body ultimately makes a decision on the choice of person etc., is it, but in the end it is good that the complaint is not allowed but it is also good that it remains with the local self-government unit and cannot be initiated administrative dispute and it is also quite good for me. Personally, these coordinations need to be accepted, but I think that when it comes to municipal redistribution and decisions relating to him being no longer able to impose a mandate. I don't know how much it's in the interest of a local self-government unit right now, but here's the deal. And it is similar to what applies and determines through the payment of municipal compensation, or through directly re-determined decisions made by the representative body of the local self-government unit on municipal compensation, or zones or areas to which this applies. Indicating only that complaints can no longer be made to the county's administrative body, means that it is good to stay with the local unit so decentralised, decentralize certain things, so we remain in the process of obtaining greater powers from local self-government units but, in the sense of the application of the law, which as such is. He's here and this is now just fitting into something that we might have a little bit different to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71615	Thank you. Final review of Secretary of State Alexander Russo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71616	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. To this question, what about the new Law on the Communist Economy? The fact that this law was passed in 1995 and it has really been many years, and a lot of this law has actually come out by passing other laws. We're at a high level of completeness with that law. You know that in the meantime, an important law that was in the Law on the Communist Economy of the Waters has excluded that activity from the Law on the Communist Economy from this existing law, and also the unclassified roads are defined in the Communist Law and we are now waiting for the new Law on Roads to pass and when it does, we will agree with that and I think we will soon go public with that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71617	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71618	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Communist Economy, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 745. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. A businessman. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Communist Economy. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority of 102 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71619	We move to the next point - Final bill amending the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 741 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislative Affairs, Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Alexander Russo will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71620	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is as is the case in this previous need to bring certain provisions of the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction of Procedural Nature in line with the new Law on General Administrative Procedure. This harmonisation is proposed in a way that amends or deletes the provisions of that law governing issues which are equally regulated in the General Administrative Procedure Act, and this applies in particular to the time limit for the adoption of a solution and the possibility of starting a administrative dispute. This law is the same for the purpose of fulfilling Chapter 23. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71621	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. SDP representative's club, Mrs. Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71622	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support this Law amending the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction, which complies with the Law on General Administrative Procedure. However, the question arises why we waited so long to bring this whole series of laws into line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, which came into force in early 2010, means more than a year and 4 months ago. It seems, therefore, that again the main reason was the EU puck, not our own awareness of the necessity of raising the transparency of governance and democratic standards, as well as strengthening the legal security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And the sad fact is that the General Administrative Procedure Act has not actually been implemented in the Republic of Croatia for years. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia rarely get solutions or administrative acts within a reasonable period of time by the administration, so we can say that in Croatia we have silenced administration as a rule. But unlike other countries where the failure to issue such solutions or the silence of the administration implies that the request of a citizen or a citizen is respected in Croatia means that the law is on hold. This creates very great legal uncertainty and is extremely unencumbered for the economy and for the development of entrepreneurship, and every once in a while we hear that the commitment of this government is about to remove all obstacles to the development of economy and entrepreneurship. Given that this law is being amended to meet the criteria set out in Chapter 23, and that we are doing all of this to prevent corruption, why not also think about empowering inspection services into a strong, independent state inspectorate that does not correspond to the individual ministry or minister or minister but directly to the Government. This would really be a commitment to effectively combating and preventing corruption, not the current situation when all the eggs are in the same basket, so the minister or minister who proposes laws is running administrative procedures and also has a major repressive apparatus to control these procedures. We hope in this sense that the whole package of these laws is not only adopted to satisfy the form and meet the criteria, but because the ruling elites have indeed decided this time to create conditions for the functioning of the rule of law, but the change of this package of laws itself will not be enough, but it will be necessary to do much, much more, and this specifically means the real implementation of the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the issuing of a solution within a reasonable period of time, the fight with the usual practice of silence of the administration, effective repressive apparatus and avoiding the privilege of certain entrepreneurs, which is unfortunately still a practice in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71623	Thank you. HNS Representatives' Club, HSU's Ms. Danica Hursa's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In this proposal, too, the amendments bring some existing solutions to the provisions of the new General Administrative Procedure Act. The amendments concern the launch of a administrative dispute against the consent of the ministry responsible for spatial planning tasks, the launch of the professional activities of spatial planning, or a solution that rejects the request for issuing and consent and the solution which withdraws that consent. The same applies to the approval of the Chamber to a natural person who, in a foreign country, has the right to carry out design and professional supervision tasks in the capacity of a responsible person if the Member State is not a member of the European Union and has acquired the right to perform competition work. The coordination shall further relate to the time limit within which the chamber is obliged to adopt a solution to a foreign authorised person from another Member State of the European Union for the occasional or one-time performance of design and professional supervision activities, the construction of a responsible person under a professional name in his or her own country, and to the Chamber’s decision to enrol in the register of the Chamber, to the rest of membership in the Chamber or to the removal of members from the register of the Chamber. These compliances, other than our Croatian needs, must also be carried out in order to meet the criteria for closing Chapter 23. I also join on behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, the critic of colleague Holy, who has set out why it has waited so long with this harmonisation. Nevertheless, the HNS and HSU club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71625	Thank you. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71626	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and deputies, Mr. Secretary of State. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party will support the Final Bill on Amendments to the Law on Architecture and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Physical Planning and Construction. The law determines the responsibility of registered legal entities, so companies that work spatial plans, design or carry out professional supervision and authorised natural persons, are authorized architects, designers and performers, to investors and other persons such as public and local services. In order for these legal and natural persons to be able to carry out the work, they need to be authorised, and obtaining the authorisation at the request of the applicant may also be denied, leading inevitably to the dispute. It also leads to the dispute to take away that authority for any reason. The procedure of issuing or withdrawing the authorisation as well as the dispute procedure, the deadlines, the competent authorities, the Administrative Court, the Chamber of Architects was also governed by the old law, but given the need for all proceedings before the relevant state bodies to be conducted in the same way as the need for the provisions of one law not to be stated in the other, the said way of dealing with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act should be harmonised in this law. So there's nothing new here, there's nothing controversial about it, we've already discussed it in the General Administrative Procedure Act, and these changes will cost nothing to the state, or there won't be a burden on the state budget. In this regard, the General Administrative Procedure Act stipulates that in all decisions it must also write instructions on the legal medicinal product related to Article 115 so that all parties that may be in the dispute have the possibility to question decisions and solutions, and in a way prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act, we, in the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71627	Thank you. HDZ representative club, Ms. Marina Matulović Dropulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71628	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposed amendments to the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction are in line with the provisions of the new Act on General Administrative Procedure in the section relating to procedural issues in the procedures which are regulated. This relates to the launch of a administrative dispute against the consent of the Ministry of Spatial Planning Affairs, to the launch of the professional affairs of spatial planning, i.e. a solution that rejects the application for the issuing and consent and the solution which withdraws that consent. The same applies to the approval of the Chamber to a natural person who, in a foreign country, has the right to carry out design or professional supervision tasks, building in the capacity of a responsible person who is not a Member State of the European Union, if he has acquired the right to perform competitive work. This harmonisation also refers to the time limit within which the Chamber is obliged to adopt a solution to a foreign authorised person from a Member State of the European Union for the occasional or one-time operation of designing or professional supervision of the construction of a responsible person under a professional name in his or her own country and to a Chamber decision to enroll in the register of the Chamber, to the rest of membership in the Chamber or to delete an article from the directory of the Chamber. It is also clear that we need to coordinate this because we want to close chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights. And there's only one thing I have to say, I'm sorry there's no Mrs. Holly who asked why she was waiting and that there's a certain problem here now. If Mrs. Holly had read the amendments and the additions to this law then she would have seen that nothing had changed, except that everything that was said in the General Administrative Procedure Act is now written only there and should not be written in special laws. So far, there have been 30 days in the law and in the General Administrative Procedure Act written for 30 days, but no more should be written in this law. It also says that the administrative dispute that has been written so far in this law is being initiated and, of course, since it says in the General Administrative Procedure Act, there is no need to write here again. So you need to read the laws, you need to see, we need to formally harmonise this, but there's no change, everything's done the same way we've done it so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71629	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71630	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 741. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Act on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted by the majority 101 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71631	At 13 o'clock, the Constitutional Committee has a debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the Law on Holidays and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, and after the Committee has discussed these two proposals, we will return at 15 o'clock to the debate on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants. We will now move on to the debate on - Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on police cooperation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 734. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative and Internal Policy and National Security. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71632	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at a session held on 23 December 2009 to initiate a procedure for the conclusion of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on police co-operation. The agreement was signed in Zagreb on 17 November 2010, and signed for the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Minister Tomislav Karamarko and the Government of the Slovak Republic, Mr Daniel Lipšić, Minister of Interior of Slovakia. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on police cooperation in an appropriate manner regulates the issue of mutual exchange of information, cooperation in the field of education and professional training, regional police cooperation, the fight against corruption, prevention and crime, the reconnaissance of undercover investigators, joint investigation teams, witness protection, liaison officers, and the protection of personal data. The proposed law confirms the agreement in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia came into force and became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71633	Thank you. The committees. Legislative? Internal policy and national security? I'm opening a debate. Club of HDZ Representatives, Mr. Representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71634	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on police cooperation continues with a series of concluded contracts concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the countries of our environment and the Member States of the European Union in the field of the fight against crime. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic with the promotion and deepening of mutual cooperation in the fight against international crime contributes to further deepening and improving the friendly relations between the two countries. That agreement elaborated provisions to contribute to an even more effective action to combat the international threat to public security as well as to the repression of all forms of international crime. Through the seven chapters forming the agreement, the competent authorities, the general provisions on police co-operation, are defined areas of police cooperation as well as specific forms of cooperation. In addition, the data protection, legal relations and final provisions of this Agreement shall be detailed. I hope that the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovakia will contribute to an even better cooperation of the interior ministries of the Republic of Croatia and Slovakia in the fight against all forms of crime. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support that agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71635	Thank you. HNS representative club, HSU's Mrs. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71636	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law confirms the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Slovak Republic, which improves the police co-operation of the two countries. Good international co-operation today is an effective form of countering organised crime in such a way that the two countries help each other and effectively coordinate action in the fight against crime. With the prevention and prevention of criminal offences, it will work to detect their perpetrators in areas that determine the agreement. Work will be done in the field of education and professional training, the suppression of corruption, the reconnaissance of undercover investigators, joint investigation teams, witness protection, contact officers, and the protection of personal data. Of course, with the quality of cooperation in the police domain, friendly relations between the two countries are confirmed and strengthened. The adoption of this bill revives a bilateral agreement between the two states, and puts an out-of-force agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on cooperation in the fight against organised crime signed in Bratislava on 30 November 2000. The adoption of the law and the entry into force of the agreement create legal conditions for the effective implementation of all forms of cooperation in the field of the police problem of the Republic of Croatia and of the Slovak Republic. For these reasons, the HNS Club will be very happy to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71637	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71638	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Police Cooperation, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 734. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Police Cooperation. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 103 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71639	We move to the next item - Final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the work of the Centre for Police Cooperation in Longoja Vasa, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 743. The Proposer is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Interior Ministry Ivica Buconjic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71640	Thanks again. An agreement was signed in Brussels on 8 November 2007 between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the work of the Centre for Police Cooperation in Dugoya Vasa. The depositary of the agreement is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the agreement is open for accession to neighbouring countries of the Republic of Slovenia. The agreement establishes a Centre for Police Cooperation in the Republic of Slovenia, the municipality of Lendava, located in the premises of the Long Vas border police station. The centre's tasks are to improve cross-border police cooperation based on existing bilateral agreements on police co-operation and bilateral agreements on... as well as cooperation with other police cooperation centres established between Member States of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given the importance of international and cross-border cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime, illegal immigration, as well as all other forms of criminal activity, a procedure has been launched to include the Republic of Croatia in the work of the centre and a note has been sent to the depositary on the intention of joining. On 2 November 2010, the depositary informed the Croatian side that the contracting parties were agreed, in agreement with the request, and the procedure for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement was launched. By completing the procedure and by laying down its instrument of accession to the agreement as depositary, the Republic of Croatia will become a party to the agreement. The implementation of this law will not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71641	Thank you. The committees? I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, HSU, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71642	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us an extremely important agreement that regulates the issues of police cooperation of countries that are directly interested in the issue of the move of the Schengen border, at the time when the Republic of Croatia, as a full member of the European Union, is able to accept the weight of that border, from the current north-west, transferring it to its borders towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia. Namely, these three countries that have concluded an agreement in 2007 to establish this police centre in Dugo Vasa, the interstate police centre has actually been forced to raise their level of mutual cooperation, because the shift of the Schengen Line has led to the border between the Member States of the European Union in this particular case between Hungary and Austria, Hungary and Slovenia, Slovenia and Austria, which no longer have control services, police control services and checkpoints such as before, so that a whole series of jobs that were done by police services at these border crossings are compensated, i.e. to introduce monitoring of cooperation and coordination of activities at the moment that this border came down south towards the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia as a participant of the whole process, because it is one of the police stakeholders in the whole business, regardless of the border towards Slovenia or tomorrow on the border towards other neighbouring countries when the Schengen border is moved, in this sense it is really necessary to access this agreement as soon as possible, so that our police experts, i.e. officials, participate in the functioning of this centre in Longoja Vasa, and thus subscribed that this mutual coordination of consultation, but also concrete action is as professional and more successful as possible. The Republic of Croatia, in this sense, enters into one big business, and the weight of establishing the Schengen border towards other neighbours, in a particular case to non-members of the European Union, is therefore the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Montenegro, the process will last, and will surely require great efforts both by governments and the ministries, so that, according to new criteria, technical and all other requirements, the establishment of the Schengen control area of the borders of the Republic of Croatia and neighbouring countries, thus making it as members of the European Union and them as non-members safe enough, sufficiently controlled and supervised in the manner that the Schengen system predicted. In this regard, we welcome the proposal for the Republic of Croatia to take this law to an agreement which was originally concluded by Slovenia, Austria and Hungary, on the work of the Centre for Police Cooperation in Dugoja Vasa and I announce that the Club of Representatives of the CNS and HSU will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71643	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71644	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the work of the Centre for Police Cooperation in the Long Sea, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 734. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on the work of the Centre for Police Cooperation in Longoja Vasa. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 102 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71645	Point 11 will be skipped, so the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act, for the purpose of preventing the applicant, and we will go to the next point - the Final Proposal of the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 727 Proposer of the Government. The debate was conducted by committees of legislation, health care and social care, work and social partnership. You received the reports at the session. State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Drazen Jurkovic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71646	I would like to thank Mr. President, Your Honor. It's about two changes. As regards the accession procedure of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and the harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the European Union, this law amends the provisions of the applicable law in order to comply with the procedure for the exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance, as well as the protection of the right through a first-degree and second-degree administrative procedure. This legislative proposal also reduces the percentage of the participation of insured healthcare professionals provided by the selected primary health care doctor, general family medicine, gynecology, dental medicine, and the issue of prescription medicines, from the current 45% of the budget base, i.e. 15 kuna to 0.30% and 10 kuna respectively. After the consolidation of the health system, after the reduction of debts of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance of 2 billion kuna, there is no debt of anything from 18 million kuna. We have come to this situation to ensure that healthcare is more accessible at the primary level, and this means further disbursement of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by 150 million kuna. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71647	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Health and Social Care Committee? The chairman of the board, Mr. Representative Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71648	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Health and Social Care considered the proposed law as a home working body. The opening statement at the Committee meeting was tabled by a representative of the applicant. The proposed amendments, as presented in the opening statement by the applicant's representative, refer to a reduction in the percentage of the participation of the insured healthcare professionals provided by the selected primary health care doctor and to the issue of prescription medicinal products. The proposed changes reduce the amount of participation paid by the insurance company, from current 0.45% to 0.35% of the budget base. Thus, insurance companies will, instead of 15 kuna, pay 10 kuna for checks, recipes and instructions to their primary care physician, unless this cost is released for payment of supplementary health insurance, or on some other legal basis. The committee members supported the proposed amendments to the law, as one in a series of measures in implementing the reform of the health system, as well as in the implementation activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to achieve the economic recovery of the country. It is also noted that the debt of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has been reduced by 2 billion kuna in the past two years and business with a positive zero is expected for the past year. The proposed measures are also necessary in order to comply with the provisions of the applicable General Administrative Procedure Act, and they concern the exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance and the protection of the right through a first-degree and second-degree administrative procedure before the Administrative Court. After the discussion, the board members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71649	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The club of HNS-HSU representatives, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71650	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There is not much to say about the amendment and additions of the law that has 11 very short articles. Of course, 2 are the main objectives of these changes. The first objective is to comply with the General Administrative Procedure where the right to provide insurance, i.e. healthcare users with the protection of rights through a first-degree and second-degree procedure, which is, in my view, sufficient reason to adopt amendments and supplement this law. So the thing systematically, i.e. that the rights of the insurance company are fully arranged. So, fully justified adoption of these amendments and additions to the law. The second is the reduction of the participation of citizens, so the participation of insured healthcare professionals provided by the selected primary healthcare doctor and specialist health care in the issue of prescription medicines. So from 15 to 10 kuna. Therefore, the HNS-HSU club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. What is worth pointing out today, and it is worth saying today from this place that we at the HNS-HSU Club are complaining that it has given up the model management of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute which has been promoted in the previous content of the Health Insurance Act, which provided that insurance companies, through elected representatives, select members of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute Assembly and that they essentially manage this office. First it was delayed for a year, now I don't know what stage it is, but it's obvious it's given up on such an intention. I know that already, that the process was under way and that certain county congregations had proposed members of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute Assembly and verified their candidates and already determined the number of members of the assembly on the basis of the number of insurance companies per county. I say I am sorry that it gave up because it would be done, it was ultimately one of the demands of the Croatian party of pensioners in negotiations with the government during our participation in the coalition government. This was also the request of most pensioners who participated in these negotiations, in presenting the so-called “retirement” of the so-called “retirement” of the so-called “retirement” group. health reforms. And it's a little awkward for the government to decide on something and then give up during the term of office. And I am sure that this would contribute to the more transparent work of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, in order to reduce the likelihood of possible affairs, possible controversy that is going through the media at the moment because the obligation to meet the wider circle of people on the business of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. So I once again take the opportunity to express my regret. It is obvious that this government has given up on this mandate, but it can become a permanent commitment to possibly a new government. I further underline, and thus conclude, that this Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance, which contains in itself the primary alignment of this law with the General Administrative Procedure Act and which contains a reduction in the participation of citizens in the achievement of health services from 15 to 10 kuna that the HNS-HSU club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71651	Thank you. The HSS Club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71652	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. The change in the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which refers to a reduced amount of participation in primary health care from 15 to 10 kuna, i.e. for one third, comes after two years of monitoring the results of the health system reform and the health insurance system. I must say that HSS was not for the introduction of primary health care participation, i.e. primary patient contact with a doctor due to possible deterrence of timely request for assistance in case of illness. However, participation for those with salary and pension above the average of 2600 kuna has prompted most people to access the additional health insurance that has increased, and for people with lower pension and salary average, it is financed from the state budget of 640 million kuna, while insurance companies themselves have paid a billion and 400 million kuna. As compared to the previous year, this has led to higher income from the Health Insurance Fund and has allowed a debt reduction of slightly more than 2 billion kuna. Today, therefore, when additional income from supplementary health insurance as well as reductions in drug prices can be quantified by the reduction in participation is on the trail of HSS's position towards which no participation is desirable in the first contact of patients at the level of primary health care. The entry into the system of supplementary health insurance of most citizens has also shown their attitude and responsibility towards their own health. The savings generated by this and other health reform activities are directed to other priorities such as new equipment in hospitals, quality of hospital accommodation, as well as improvement of services in the healthcare system and all of the above is sufficient reason to support the adoption of this Act by the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71653	Thank you. Club of representatives of HDZ Mr. Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71654	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club also adheres to previous clubs and supports the Proposal for a Law amending the Mandatory Health Insurance Act with the final draft of the law and for all these reasons that we have already heard here and which Mr. Secretary of State said on behalf of the Ministry. It is very important to mention that the HDZ Club supports in general everything that the Ministry of Health has done so far and can be reduced to one word while at the same time under one major procedure, which is a reform of the health system. It is also important to note that the health system generates huge costs and that this Ministry of Health has had a challenge that, in the face of large debts, i.e. large costs that have passed more than 250 million kunas per month, a new debt that has been generated so far when asked first of all, health institutions and, above all, the HZZO itself has joined the reform and stabilised the system. How did that happen? One of the right policies and good politics and insurance, so-called The additional insurance from some 700 thousand insurance companies of the Ministry of Health and HZZO managed to raise that figure to as many as 2.5 million insured persons, which means that by actually entering that system, people have contributed significantly to the stability of the system, and that is precisely how these moves have enabled this move that you have now made and decided for it, which is to reduce participation and thus relieve the patient or the population and everything in line with the government policy of the Republic of Croatia and stabilisation in view of the financial situation in Croatia. It is also very important to mention that this hospital policy actually gave them the opportunity to increase revenues by 20%. Afterwards, new payment models were introduced reduced days of hospital treatment, then a certain methodology was applied and even charged costs resulting from traffic accidents from insurance companies, which also further ensured the stability of the system. And, in general, a new way of funding has been implemented when it comes to services primarily in primary health care. All of them are required procedures related to the information of primary health care, which is a prerequisite for supervision and management of funds, have been reduced waiting lists. Even some of them up to 30%. The concession procedure within which certain progress and savings have also been ensured has also been implemented. When it comes to emergency medical reform, it is very important to mention that the implementation of the emergency care reform itself has provided much safer and timely emergency care for all people in need. Then, it was also carried out in such an environment a certain reform of oncological activity which also enabled better access to all persons in need of treatment to have better access to both institutions and specialists. More prevention has been encouraged and promoted, let us remember all of those preventive procedures that are being conducted for early detection of breast cancer, colon, uterus, prostate, and at this time we also use on behalf of the HDZ Club for all preventive activities to call on our citizens to respond and to remove all the possible consequences of these severe illnesses by means of timely treatment. The Ministry and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute also carried out new controls and new payment methods relating to particularly expensive medicines, then an increased and transplant programme for which the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health and, in that case, the Government of the Republic of Croatia received certain praises from the international level. I must mention that it is very important that it is finally started with all those accreditation procedures, so when it comes to the Agency for the Quality and Control of Health Protection, to ensure the quality of health care, so to conduct accreditation and categorization of our hospitals. So, given what the Ministry has done and what it is doing to stabilise the health system, the HDZ Club once again supports this proposal to amend the mandatory health insurance law with a final bill as one of a series of elements done to actually come out on our people's hands in a way that responds to this difficult financial situation. So, with all this in mind, the Ministry of State has decided to enable the i.e. to reduce participation for individual health services and it is in any case commendable, all of this as before what I just said and what was done before the Government and the Ministry of Health, the HDZ Club supports and invites all of you to give support to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71655	Thank you. SDP representative club, Ms. Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71656	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDP Club, we support a reduction in the percentage of participation in health care for insured persons provided by the selected doctor of primary health care and when issuing prescription medicines. Here is what you say, the promoter says this reduction wants to reduce at least a little of the financial burden on citizens and, of course, that is why we support the proposal as well as the adoption of an emergency procedure. However, I must stress from the talks with the citizens, I must stress that the health system has become a place of very large inequality of citizens, and the proposed laws that have been passed inequality have increased. Like what? The right to health, quality health care and quality medicines depended on the financial power of the individual. The insured persons of this two year have borne the cost of participation of 15 kn for health care that they receive in the chosen doctor of general medicine, gynecology, dental medicine and also for the issue of prescription medicine in the pharmacy were paid for participation of 15 kn, and each insurance company is obliged to bear the cost of participation for medicinal products on the supplemental list of medicines, so I must stress that one family of pensioners is chroniclers and pay 850 kn per month for their treatment. That is why I say that the current health policy still shifts the cost of financing health care from state to citizen and from healthy to sick and rich citizens to poor. We have seen here and through this law and in previous discussions we see the satisfaction of the current health reform, of course I say that health reform is necessary but it also requires a minimum social consensus. I also know that it did not exist and that not everyone participated and that not everyone is satisfied with this kind of health reform as it is now. The aim of the health reform is in fact to achieve new sources of health funding, which so far has been financed by a million and a half employees. And exactly the laws I previously stressed are primarily aimed at reducing insurance rights and saving money on the insurance account. However, I must say that most citizens are neither paying for participation now precisely because the supplementary insurance has increased from 659 000 to 2 million 400, and the incomes of the HDZ have thus increased from 501 million to 1.3 billion kuna in 2010. I would say one more thing about health care reform, or about great satisfaction, but I recently came across an article where there was a consultation of the Association of Employers in Health, which was held in Opatija and brought together the directors of health institutions, administrations and trade unionists. According to these figures, the total obligation of the health institution by 31.12.2010 is higher than the year before 230 million kuna, while the liabilities have reached less than 195 million kuna. Therefore, debt to suppliers is only a paper reduction because, according to employers, payment deadlines are actually extended to 240 days. Dear gentlemen, of course, the health system as highlighted generates great costs. However, the reform of the health system is needed, further, of course in the right direction needed as the social consensus spreads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71657	Thank you. An individual debate. Ms. Representative Romana Jerkovic, there is no losing her right. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. My debate will be very brief. Since this bill in Parliament will explain the Minister of Health, and it is not there, we will remain withheld answers to a large number of questions and arguments about claims that after never so many changes to the law as in the past seven years, after so many establishments and the abolition of health institutions, the extension of the list of services and medicines that citizens pay directly, the state of public health is better than ever. Given the state secretary's claims and the ruling that the reform has succeeded that everyone is extremely satisfied with the state of health system any debate of the proposal or criticism would be excessive. Citizens know, and in recent days and testify that at the expense of public health there is an extremely good development of private health, whether or not, whether or not legal or not, someone else is determining. But so long as the Minister again in the Assembly in his own way convinces the nation in a very successful model of his health system reform, the only thing about this law is that clearly in the election year there has been a reduction of participation in the works of services that are least used in the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71659	Thank you. Corrections. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I know that colleague Lesar said for political or political reasons that I simply cannot keep quiet and must correct. I quote he said it's "a state of public health worse than ever." Comrade Lesar, you know yourself that this is not true, not only because of today's change, you do not have to run, not only because of today's amendment to the law which reduces the participation of the insurance company from 15 to 10 kn, so for God's sake, it is not only good that the health system reform was brought up by representatives from other parties and HDZ representatives, which I hope will also be in individual discussions on the amendments and additions of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71661	Mr. Representative Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71662	Thank you very much. My colleague Lesar objectes to a large number of amendments to the law. That's not true. It was not a large number because it is about adapting a number of EU laws, as the Chemical Act and others will soon come. Also, the extension of the list is not a negative but a good thing, as the ministry extended the lists in the area of malignancies treatment because new medicines were produced in the area. And the greatest lie that the state of health is worse than ever. If we compare our colleague Lesar with countries of similar material status, then we absolutely have the most solidarity health system. Every citizen and every citizen in the event of acute illness for 24 hours 365 days a year has currently available every health care service. The waiting lists are shortened for chronic diseases. We must also say that financial co-financing is far the smallest of all European countries compared to the price of the service. Therefore, it is an arbitrary and political statement that healthcare is worse than ever. We believe that healthcare came out of this deep global and European economic crisis completely intact.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71663	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71664	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Says colleague Lesar several times very successful, very, very, very very very. Well, the minister never uses the word very successful health reform, we all speak together, and so does the minister, at least we on this side, of a successful health reform. The proof of this is everything we heard here today in the presentation of both State Secretary and counterpart Bagaric on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club. And go to a colleague if you do not believe in successfully implemented health reform in the General Hospital in Požega, the General Hospital in Pakrac, the Special Hospital in Lipik, and compare the operations of only those health institutions that I know of because I come from Požeko-Slavon County with the operations of three, four, five years ago, compare today's business of these health institutions and you will see what it means successfully, and you can freely say and add a very successfully implemented health system reform in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71665	Replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71666	There seems to be no esteemed colleague Lesar, but here I will begin a replica of him with a Vienna: In Sinj, the alkars are born, in Djakov.../Speaker excluded./... flew the kin out of Djakov's town birthplace closed by the Croatian Government. So what I ask despite these reforms and improvements, changes and additions to the laws, what I ask the Minister of Health, as well as the Croatian Government, that, in the same way as the decision to equip the birthplace in Imotsk, Sinj and Makarska, to make such a decision for the city of Djakovo and to find resources in the reforms that you so praise and to open the birthplace in Djakova, i.e. to equip it in accordance with health standards in the 21st century because the city without the born Djakovchana and Djakovchana is not a city. And you should too, Mr. Vice President, support it as an honorary citizen of that city and a little bit in your club... that they may see, that they may open their eyes, and that it may not be more important than the beavers; for if it were not for the alkars and the beavers, neither would Croatia be. [[You don't understand.]] On behalf of the protest, I am giving up that individual debate and I am requesting an urgent response from both the Prime Minister and the Government and the Ministry of Health. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71667	All right, Ivan. ... It's a good thing, when it comes to the Beygars, I think the Djakova birthplace will come to its own as did these three others, that there will be solutions, but this requires little and support of the county, requires finding all possible conditions and according to the beyar that, I would add one verse, that the beyar would be easy to be a beyar of everyone. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Ms. Representative Biljana Borzana. She's gone. He's losing his right. Ms. Representative Susana Bilić Vardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71668	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I will also support the amendments and additions of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act not only because this is one of the sets of laws that the Croatian legislation is in line with, the Croatian laws are in line with the provisions of the new General Administrative Procedure Act, thus ensuring the protection of insurance rights, i.e. first-degree and second-degree proceedings, which is also one of the measures, as the State Secretary specifically said, that this was also in line with the legal property of the European Union because it was one of the measures in Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights. On the other hand, if it were not only this compliance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, I am pleased as a citizen and as a parliamentary representative as a result, one of the results of the implementation of the health system reform in the Republic of Croatia that started this government through the Resorving Ministry, which is that one article is changing or reducing the participation of insurance companies from the existing 15 kuna to 10 kuna. I agree with my colleague, Petir, who said in her debate that the impact of the increased number of insurance contributions to the supplementary health insurance system has also resulted in this possibility that the Croatian Health Insurance Institute has made more funds, and thus also those insurance companies and those citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have not yet entered the supplementary health insurance system, here is this service, or participation that they are obliged to pay in primary healthcare from 15 to 10 kuna. That's why I don't understand when my colleague, Šimac-Bonačić, mentioned in her debate two pensioners who pay 860 kuna per month for this participation. It was not clear to me whether they were in the supplementary health insurance system, so they had to pay or not. Otherwise, I would like what I was correcting with Mr. Lesar, that in Croatian society, in this assembly, in this House, we are also talking about the good in Croatian society. Here's the law, this is now a debate on the health care law, so health insurance is mandatory, but in general, we send out positive emphasis from this assembly to citizens and citizens, or to the Croatian public, because too much of it is a colleague and colleagues in our discussions with the non-negative, bad black. And it's not true. Every effort should be welcomed, all results of the health system reform in the Republic of Croatia should be welcomed. We should also welcome the highlighted results of the Economic Recovery Programme of the Republic of Croatia, and this, here is a little reduction for us because we are in the supplementary health insurance system, so I don't have to pay for it. But let's also think about those who will make this easier if they're not already committed, they're not options or the state isn't, they're not in those categories of insurance that the state pays for additional health insurance. Here I welcome and support the adoption of this law with a little request that we really make arguments concretely, not to politicise in such things as reform, one process in which when problems arise, they require amendments to the law. But it's important that our commitment is to do what's best for the users of health care services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71669	Thank you. Replicas Mr. Representative Dragutin Bodakosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71670	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Bilic, you've been talking about this section about raising funds from supplementary insurance. Well, the fact is that there's been an increase in the number and cash in that supplemental insurance, and the last introduction of the participation just seemed to be the initiator, or initiative that scared these people and these 15 kunas, and that's why they're going into such a big extra insurance that here's what counterpart Tatjana said with 500 million gone HZZO now incasing a billion and 300 million. So it's a nice winning lottery for HZZO, and that's why now the big thing is that it could be slightly reduced by 30%. The second question is that now our citizens are paying these 15 kuna advances for each review whether or not they will go after it. HZZO seems to have well assessed that fear is one great incentive for humans, and that is why the introduction of those 15 kunas has led to such a great increase. However, this reduction is just a little blurry, because still people are paying for that participation through this supplementary insurance, afraid that indeed every 15 kuna review, every prescription and everything else is one large sum for the sick. For one who's not sick, that's one tax, and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71671	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71672	Thank you very much. Comrade Bodakosh, I disagree with you when you said in your replica that the citizens were scared. Well, now you've finally stated that this clearly applies to the sick. My colleague Bodakosh, most of the insurance companies are not sick people. These are healthy people who have responsibility for their health. You say someone pays, I don't know that someone pays for participation in advance if I get you right. That is, it was not an additional health insurance lotto for the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. In fact, when the Croatian Institute received this financial result, it returns or reduces the participation of those who have not entered the supplementary health insurance system. And let's not say that the supplemental health insurance policy is so inaccessible to us. I'll dare say and compare the expenses the family has on his cell phone and other accessories, cigarettes, alcohol and so forth. That's not where we ask the question. But when you care about your own health, that's what the state needs to do. Therefore, I think that the focus is on the responsibilities of every citizen for his own health, and the state here that has social health makes a clear contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71673	Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71674	Thank you very much. My colleague Bilić Vardić, I would say, in fact, that today is the most difficult for our pensioners, especially when they are ill. As for health care and isolation for your illness. We recently did a study on pensioners in Dubrovnik and we received information that somewhere between 65, 70% were chroniclers. You asked a question just before if these people I've forced to raise 850 kunas per month for health care, or cash out. Yeah, they have extra insurance. Knowing that extra security might help them if we went to the hospital, so we know how much relationships they are, how valuable that is then. However, in this case if the medicine is going to be a little valid, and this medicine is prescribed by the doctor, so do not ask for a pensioner to give me this medicine that is better for me than for his doctor. However, this medicinal product should be charged regardless of supplementary insurance. And that's why I repeat it to the retired. And this case I told you 850 yes. The wife of that gentleman has a 1600 kuna pension. Pays 350, that's 22, 23% of your pension, pays for the medicines she needs, which she needs for every day. And if there is no supplement that we give through the measures, the social measures to pensioners 200 kuna are being paid from the city of Dubrovnik the question is how could these pensioners go on in the first place? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71675	The answer to the line did you give or didn't you? You're not. Mr. Representative Davor Huška, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71676	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've told your colleagues well and recognized that when something positive is said a little bit, so unfortunately so is the results of a successful reform of the health system. The opposition, including a significant number of media, was also ready to attack the minister and proposals for reform of the health system. And today, when it is almost fully revived, when we have positive results of the reform, neither the opposition nor some Croatian media are reluctant to speak or speak. Here I will repeat just a few examples of what happens after we have accepted the reform of the health system in the Požega-Slavon County where three important health institutions, hospitals, only in the area of capital building and equipment, are to say that in Pozega the building of polyclinics, the general hospital in Pakrac has completed a new kitchen, that a new boiler room is completed, that in a special hospital in Lipik, the physiotherapy of more than 20 million kunas is completed, that there are dozens of millions of kuna invested in capital building in new equipment, that the debts of the hospital are almost unannounced after here are successfully implemented reforms of the health system, that waiting lists are shortened, that allow citizens to prevent all kinds of potential diseases, the possibility of reviewing and detecting the development of the disease before they live in the human organism. And these are the positive things to talk about, which our citizens know, of course we should use this place to remind both the media and the opposition to a successful reform of the health system in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71677	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71678	Thank you, colleague Huška, for these examples you have set, a team more because you come from the neighboring Požega-Slavon County, and as I am from Brod-Posavina County, I can join the same results as you have shown in this replica. And I'm sorry that even one part of Slavonia still doesn't share our opinion, namely she doesn't want to talk about the good, the good that has been achieved by implementing the health system reform. So, for example. in the Brod-Posavina County, which also has two hospitals, and six total health institutions, all ended up with a positive result in 2010 so they achieved excess income on expenditures. Is it only good at that, we will see, but you have stated everything that has been restored, I have spoken here several times the magnetic resonance of the ship's hospital, the General Hospital of Dr. Sibencevic got it over the last year, and we have opened, that is, in the beginning of this year, these days, as with you, the competition, the public procurement for the construction of the hospital polyclinic, and therefore we could continue to list these results. With what I'd like, so I'm going back to what was a request, to speak well of this to our citizens. When are they gonna talk? Well, they'll talk when they hear from us, or they'll deny us, even though I have to admit in Croatian society, it at least makes me feel like the more we get, or the more we're given, that we have more objections, and that our demands and expectations are clearly above the possible, but the good human heart is never satisfied, but I hope that the results of the health reform will confirm, colleague Huška, what you and I have been saying in our replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71679	Mr. Representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71680	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague Bilić Vardić said the arguments, and a colleague of Huška's what was done, so I'll be on that trail of arguments. Each system can be viewed with three aspects, a legislative aspect, that Mr. Vice President Shakespeare knows very well, but he doesn't know the fact that 15 times in the last seven years the law on compulsory insurance has been amended, 15 times in seven years, an argument. How is that possible? Why is that possible? Is that a vision? Continuity? What's this about? Argument as counterpart Bilić Vardić seeks. A colleague of Huška's right, it's done, but where? In the city of 12 thousand 897 residents, according to the last census of 2001, there is a magnetic resonance, 12 897 inhabitants, and there is no Varazdin of 40,000, Čakovec of 17 thousand, Koprivnica of 30 thousand. You have three cities, Varazdin, Čakovec, Koprivnica, no magnetic resonance, a city of 12 thousand 897 inhabitants. Okay. For that device you could buy... A CT device and put it in that city at least, but to be state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same cities, to quote our vice president, let's give a little bit to the Alkars and we can give some to the beekeepers, let's go to the alkars and the beekeepers. Sinj has 15 thousand inhabitants, Imotski 17, Makarska 15, closed three maternity homes, and for that device in that city of 12 thousand 897 residents could all three birth homes including Djakovo to be for our beavers, not just for the alkars... It's available, it's facts, it's arguments if you want arguments, but let's talk strategically. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The waiting lists, Google them, take your cell phone and order a search and you will see how long you will wait, do not naturally use the privilege of a parliamentary representative, do not use it, Google it, check it out, and I will see you after the break. The economy, so I told you legislation, 15 times in 7 years changed the basic Health Insurance Act, check the waiting lists yourself, I won't check. The economy of 25 billion kuna has no director of HZZO 1.2 billion kuna going to private clinics. Public clinics, my hospital stands, today, tomorrow of 14 o'clock devices are ciuso, closing, not that we're getting to work this afternoon, my surgeons are top-notch if they're lucky they go twice to the operating room. Dear friends, we're trained to treat people, we're trained to operate, endoscopy, do angiographs, stents that Professor did. Hebrang and saved thousands of lives. Buy us for these billions of 200 million kuna stents, building material, give us that extra, extra limit, extra budgets, we'll work, no waiting lists, activate public health. Now we have a tragedy that top schooled people stand. It's a waist. So the waist says what she said, she said please, it's an appeal, it's a cry, please give us only one profession says, including veterinarians, let us do, nothing else. The salaries are as they are, in Croatian terms very good, in European very bad, but we live in Croatia, a country that has such GDP, we do not complain about wages, let us work, give us rational procurement of magnetic resonances, without political criteria, but they are not even political, but political, they are not even political. A colleague Bilić Vardić is absolutely right magnetic resonance Slavonski Brod has an indication, and when I have to go to surgery, I would go to a series of county hospitals, including Varazdin, Slavonski Brod, Zadar, etc., we have excellent hospitals, but we have an irregular, unbalanced, inaccessible health care. And since my colleague Huška, my colleague Bilić Vardić, asked me for arguments, I showed them to you vividly. Okay. Three great hospitals of Varazdin, Chakovec, Koprivnica, so believe me, none of them have magnetic resonance, none of them. I don't believe it. And they sent applications. I'm sorry that there's a secretary of state, not the current minister, they've been sending applications, the current minister says I'm here to fill out applications, whoever's sending the application, I'm doing it. But he's not the one who's filling out the petitions for God's sake. He has a vision, a strategy, to know how Croatian health is developing, to know 5 regions or 4 regions and to know that in all 4 regions there must be this, this and that equipment. That he knows that next year five MRIs are coming out that don't radiate, etc., etc. It's a vision. Deja vu – already seen. Okay, Google it. In September 2007, this Parliament did not do this, but it did work on the Governing Council of HZZO, downgraded the cost of additional insurance by 10 kuna, September 2007. November 2007 elections, December 2007, what do you think happened? Returned the same prices. Deja vu – already seen. Fact, argument, fact when we're talking to facts. I'm sure it won't happen now, but please don't repeat the damage, repeat what was built four years ago. So, the extra insurance price is down, the same party wins, and they say sorry, we were joking. Of course this isn't for purpose, is it, fellow Secretary of State, for the purpose of the campaign, is it? And of course I support this reduction for five reasons. The first reason is that the following 5 charges were introduced in these 7 years ago: first administrative tax, tax paid exclusively by sick citizens only. Secondly, two drug lists – B list that does not pay where 270 preparations have passed or 13% of medicines, which means 13% decreased quality. It's right for all those who say, right away because I'm telling the arguments, all the key drugs are on the basic list, and that's a message to the citizens. All the keys are on the basic list. He's right, Professor. Hebrang expensive drugs mean progress, but the fact is 13% of the drugs are listed on B. 13% of drugs are paid. The fact was introduced 20% of the participation 2.3 years ago on all services – primary health care, secondary health care, hospital. Fourth fact, my mom, your mom and dad, grandparents, everyone who has a pension above 5130 kuna pays 3% of the new health contribution, a new one. Gentlemen of the Economists, what is it? It's a double-tax report. Well, they were paying for a health contribution. They retired. So why are you letting them pay their health contributions again? They paid medical contributions. That's the keys to double taxation. And a fifth, supplemental insurance. The addition is a Croatian nice word. He says I'm supplementing something, I'm supplementing the glass, I'm adding a favor, right? What's with us additional health insurance? No addition, it's just a possibility that you don't pay for participation. So this is never the coercion of the current minister, either take it or leave it. It doesn't add up to you, but you'll either pay for the participation or pay for the extra. 2.5 million Croats are paying extra insurance this hour. Gentlemen economists, once again economic theory, second year of the Faculty of Economics, which means when 80% of the citizens pay something? Is that voluntary, is that voluntary? It's a tax in economics, tax, tax, etc., etc. But we're all right. Croatian medicine is great, my sisters and my instruments, our surgeons, Croatian doctors are tough and therefore Croatian medicine is great, but the Croatian health system is not good, it is not good. And that's a fact. And it can be improved by fast, short changes just don't need... applications, not to work politically but rather to work on a strategy, a vision, we need to think about what Croatian health and medicine are like in 2020. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71681	Thank you. We have one, first of all, correction of an incorrect quote, the distinguished representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71682	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I will correct two incorrect allegations by my colleague Ostojić. First, the Croatian health system is not good. I disagree, and you can't prove it. You didn't prove it with any of the facts in your speech. We are talking about facts, give one fact that speaks of the fact that the Croatian health system is not good. I think the opposite, and I have arguments about it, I talked about it, said my colleague Bilic, said everyone who believes in Croatia and who believes in the Croatian health system that he is good and that he is getting better. I believe it firmly. I don't believe you believe what you're saying, but it's your job. Secondly, when you were talking about this hospital, you could say that this is the General Hospital in Gospić, which covers one fifth of Croatia geographically, a magnet at the General Hospital in Gospić. And you think he should not be placed in that hospital that covers a geographically one-fifth of Croatia. I don't agree with you here. I agree with the need for a magnet in both Čakovec and Varazdin and Slavonski Brod and a dozen magnets in Zagreb, yes. But certainly the magnet should also be in the General Hospital in Gospić because there is no magnetic resonance in that part of Croatia from Zadar to Karlovac from Rijeka to Zagreb. I think you understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71683	Thank you very much. And we have one replica, it's the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have a need to replicate the esteemed colleague Ostojic, and especially after his findings when he said this was not for the purpose of the campaign. So, and then after that, it came to support this bill. I'd just say there's no system, there's nothing in the world that can't be better and what can't be said if it takes 100 remarks and suggestions to make something better. So, and yours, all of this that you've brought out here, a good part of what you've brought out could be put in, analyzed, and most likely certain conclusions could be made that the system can really be improved and that's not at all controversial. Here, I'm going to act like someone who's not in the campaign and who doesn't support this reform of the health system just because I'm on the side of the government that does it. And here's a part of what you said should really change and improve to make it better. However, I now invite you to come when it is not for the purpose of the campaign come answer me in a replica about the health care system and those aspects that you like. You are a doctor, a highly educated professor and you know super well that this system is stable you know that these amendments to the Law are actually to stabilise the system and you also know that the contribution to health care even if it was participation and additional health insurance or additional solidarity. Therefore, those who are healthy solidarity in the sense that we collect funds one way and give the best possible services from them to those who are in great need. So I just wanted to say if it wasn't for the purpose of the campaign let's give it a little affirmative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71685	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Željko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71686	All Croatian citizens including us colleagues and colleagues have been sick for exactly one year longer than the citizens of the European Union that is the fact of our colleague Bagarić, 356 thousand of our citizens are dying because of cardiovascular diseases in Europe 130, why? Because there are no preventive actions, don't say anything, every four. Croatia is thick, every 23% of children smoke in high school, 32 women smoke, no public health action, no prevention talk, equipment is obtained in cities of 12 thousand 897 residents, no obtaining CT devices, no care for Croatia for 10 years, that is the point of state administration vision and strategy rather than filling applications. That's the facts. The only good thing is a colleague, Bagaric, in three years of active minister, is e-Health. E-Health is a good system, E-recept is all that's left. So you asked me to tell you, so that's something to support further.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71687	I would like to inform you that members of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia have a session today at 14:30 to be held at the Eugen Quaterniks Hall 233. And in five minutes, on behalf of the club, the distinguished representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71688	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I was offered this discussion for the final word on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retireds, and it is not disputed that we stay with what I have already said, which is that in the absence of better and better quality solutions, we will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law, but I am taking the opportunity to look back on the course of the debate. I would like to say to my colleague Rajk that he is wrong when he claims that all pensioners who have a pension of more than 5 thousand 108 kuna pay a health contribution, that is not true, only 22 thousand pensioners who have a higher pension of 5 thousand 108 kuna and others have been released, although they have a higher pension freed by the Law on Personal Contributions. In fact, for defenders, it pays the state, we pay someone else, we all pay, therefore it is worth saying because it seems that only 22 thousand pensioners per worker's salary insurance although they have been seeking the Constitutional Court's opinion on the compliance of this Law with the Constitution for two years, despite the 3.4 rushes, they still haven't received any response from the Constitutional Court on this basis. I have no objection to certain categories of citizens being free of payment, however, let this be done immediately at the adoption of this Act when a health contribution is made and not given after the opinion of the Committee on the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not even of the Assembly they release the payment it is not a correct situation. Of course, we can't argue, and there's too many claims that the system is stable. Yes, the health system is stable only in one fact constantly producing larger or less debts, in this it is stable safe but not in another and of course be fair and put the label on all these laws or sign "Works in progress" would be very good. What I must also say is that I would be much more pleased that these amendments and additions to the health insurance law contained the possibility that additional insurance would fully pay the medicines, which we discussed in the introduction of health reform where there were many words and where such options were considered because indeed what the colleague here said had a limited availability of medicinal products in view of their high price and practically not additional health insurance protects them from going to the primary health care doctor or at hospital or specialist examinations, however, the availability of medicines is compromised and therefore I think that in this direction we must go on no matter what I would like to talk about today, even though we have not been reducing the price of participation around which can always be speculated that this is done for pre-election purposes and in the pre-election time. So I repeat once again in the absence of better solutions, the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71689	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare Drazen Jurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71690	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your honor. In fact, very briefly regarding the law itself, I thank you for supporting the amendments to this Law but really just to clarify some of these discussions. So, with Honorable representative Lesar forgotten or no record that in the last three years in the public sector since Minister Milinovic invested 8 billion kuna more than before. We forgot that since the 2008 Plitvice Meeting, the budget of state hospitals, public hospitals has been raised by approximately 17% or a billion kuna a year, so an additional billion kuna a year. We are on our way to a major project of equipment renewal, 825 million kuna at this economic and budgetary moment of 177 new devices, all of which go to public hospitals. 4 billion kuna from the budget has been invested in equipment and space in the last 3.5 years, building hospitals from Karlovac, Mercury, from Lipik, Zadar, etc. As for the birthplace in Djakov, it is true, a tender for three maternity homes has been opened. For Đakovo is not and the health minister will have another meeting with the commission to say his final word about the birthplace in Đakova, the maternity home yes or no. I would remind you that maternity homes are not closed because someone wanted it or because someone didn't want it, but because they no longer met the minimum technical conditions and because births in those maternity homes were already completely out of line with what the waist asked for. Therefore, there were neither spatial, nor personnel, nor equipment conditions for the further continuation of that health activity. Comrade Rajko, as far as the magnet in Gospić is concerned, is this magnet really such a problem? The missive hospital someone said of the MPs covering a fifth, so the biggest area. It's the county with the largest surface in the Republic of Croatia. The nearest hospital is 100 kilometers away. Isn't that 12 thousand inhabitants, that's over 160 thousand people in the county, and I can tell you now that the waiting list for that magnet is three months. Well, don't this character and this Gospić deserve one magnet and not have that magnet, so would that save the Croatian health system? Waiting lists. So you know well and you were in the ministry, you were deputy minister, there were no waiting lists, there were no administrative reasons why no one kept records of whether there were waiting lists or not. Patients were registered in some blocks and streams, for the first time we introduced official waiting lists that we know what waiting lists are on which suit and official information is that these waiting lists have been reduced by 20% to 30% since the time we started to officially record waiting lists. So two years ago, we didn't even know what waiting lists were because we didn't have records at all, we didn't have an administration, we didn't have a foundation that dealt with waiting lists. So, if we hadn't done anything else that we had introduced a strict record, that we had introduced the right record, we'd done a significant system editing in that segment. In the same way as investment in the private sector, the last piece of information given to me by HZZO director is 250 million kunas in private polyclinics, not a billion or as much as you said, and that's 1% of the budget, and you know that in Europe that goes from 5 to 10%. And finally, when we talk about private polyclinics, so the private hospital that is financed most today from the public budget was opened in 1990. I told you why you didn't break that contract. Why didn't you terminate the contract in 2000 to 2004? The hospital has about 100 million kuna per year from the budget. In 2003, "St. The spirit" the first private dialysis was also introduced during your term of office. I don't think it's a good, public-private partnership is in all segments, and in health care, of course, in a strictly controlled way, the future. But why move the ball where it's not necessary? You know that in your term of office there were contracts with private hospitals and with private polyclinics and in the mandate of all ministers so far, and annual HZZO spends around 250 million kuna on this item. You're saying the minister isn't in favor of fulfilling his wishes? I agree, I completely agree with you. The minister is to run the health strategy of the Republic of Croatia and he really does, but where he's going to buy which apparatus, so it knows only management of the directorship, however, the department heads know it. So can the minister now in your suit, forgive the gastroenterology to buy some machine without you needing that machine to stand. Well, we had examples like that where the appliances were purchased, so those appliances were standing in the basements untapped. So who else knows better if there's room for that machine, whether there's an education, whether there are experts, whether this apparatus can be used in that healthcare facility than the head of health care institutions and department heads. So, it has to start from them and it's normal for them to start an initiative to get every machine, so if you want to and then this PCT device that you're talking about. I'd just like to remind you that in the last three years we've introduced 63 new drugs on the waiting list. So that's a fact. We have the latest request from the Clinical Hospital Center of Zagreb 154 apparatus, I think that request came about 7.3. These 154 appliances are 150 million kunas. In that budget item, we have about 50 or 60 million kunas. So we're going to have to think about it and the way the machines are taken, which machines don't take. So, it's a strategy, and it's the way that they're not wish lists, but it's the most normal protocol to manage a health care facility, that the clinic chiefs say what equipment they need, and then the Ministry of Health, in accordance with the possibilities and in agreement with the profession, determine which equipment it can't buy, because it's going to be in the future and I really don't need to talk to you now, and you know about only your home from radiology, from cardiology, from all other activities what kind of demands are coming and there's going to be a situation in the future that the Republic of Croatia's budget is really not going to be able to finance and buy all the machinery that is needed, because it's not just the fate of all countries not only in the region but also in Europe, because health spending is growing from 5 to 10%. You know that very well. And finally, thank you for your support for eHealth. But that health care worked now, and I think it could have worked before. You know why I'm saying this, because that project started in 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71691	Thank you. We have three corrections of incorrect allegations. First, he's a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71692	I'm correcting the State Secretary's allegations that I've forgotten how much money is invested in what's invested. My memory is far better and stronger than your secretary of state, I'll prove it to you. I haven't forgotten any of the information you've provided as well as the fact that after centralization of public procurement some local hospitals can get magnets, and the hospital in Čakovec doesn't even have a CT device. I didn't forget to wait 9 months for a simple ultrasound, that's what the citizens tell you. I haven't forgotten that there's not enough gynecologists and that women have big problems getting into the infirmary. I haven't forgotten that there aren't enough pediatricians and mothers looking for pediatricians for their children. You see how much of that information I remember, and if he was a minister then this debate would probably be different. I remember very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71693	Thank you. And we have a second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Rajko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71694	Well, I wouldn't talk about regions, because you fellow secretary of state know very well that Gospić General Hospital has flourished thanks to the decentralised means introduced by Racan's government. You know that very well. It's blossoming. But it's an important hierarchy of priorities, to quote Vice President Shakespeare: give a little bit to the beekeepers. I'm Dalmash. Give some to the alkars. So you have cities of the same size-Sinj, Imotski, Makarska. The birthplace of Đakovo is closed, the birthplace is closed, equipment and values are purchased instead of initiating it at the birthplace. That's the point. The Minister's doing a hierarchy of priorities. Similar hospitals... You said yourself, yes, '99. It's a closed contract, '99. Was I thinking HDZ's government, '99. GDP was -0.9%. [[You don't understand.]] The recession is a Croatian export brand only no one knew what recession meant, no one knew what GDP was -1%, no one knew because it was not Europe. So, and you're right, you should have continued that contract, why, because only Rebro and Magdalene were working. Now that the heart surgery thanks to Rijeka for the sake of Rijeka, Split and other hospitals...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71695	Time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71696	I'm not finished, Mr. Vice President. So let me finish the sentence. ... Excuse me, one thought course, Mr. Vice President, which you need to respect. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] It's a thought flow.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71697	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71698	Well, of course, let me. Now I've put the decimal point, it's the interpretation, the decimal point, and the point is the end of the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71699	Thank you very much. ... You've corrected the quote. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] We have another correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71700	It is incorrect that Mr. Secretary of State says that the problem for us is that one Gospić has a magnet. It is not a problem, Mr. Secretary of State whether you have people who can read everything that comes from these devices or those patients, despite what you have provided for certain environments, and then you come to the campaign "we gave it to you" as if you give it out of your own pocket, they must go to Zagreb again. You also speak incorrectly because it does not work in practice as management and clinic heads determine priorities and procurement and specialization. It just doesn't work or how it works. Here's an example for you in Zadar where you don't have any more specialists, gynecologists, pediatricians, that people in retirement have to be invited to work because there's no gynecologist, no pediatricians. That's after the Second World War in '45. It wasn't, but that's exactly what it says about nepotism and how it's exactly how your management and the chiefs of the clinic shared specializations with the like, not what the citizens needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71701	Bring the end. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71702	8, Final proposal for a law amending the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 727 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on compulsory health insurance. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 104 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71703	Now we're going to skip points 13 and 14 because we don't have the conditions for their debate and we move on to point 15. This is - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy (IRENA), with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 747 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivan Bubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71704	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. The government of the Republic of Croatia was called at the International Agency for Renewable Energy (hereinafter referred to as IRENA), which was held on 26th and 27th January 2009 in Bonn by a letter from the German Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs. IRENA was officially founded in Bonn on 26 January 2009. To date, 149 countries and the European Union have signed the Statute of the Agency as a regional economic integration organisation, and 65 signatories have ratified the Statute. IRENA may become a member of the United Nations and regional organisations capable of acting in accordance with the objectives and activities set out in the Statute. IRENA is conceived as a key international body in the field of renewable energy, adviser and partner in the expansion and use of renewable energy. It aims to gather experience and knowledge and transfer technology between Member States. The Statute constitutes a basic act of IRENA and a legal framework establishing an International Organisation for Renewable Energy which promotes cooperation between its members in the area concerned. Based on the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the procedure for the accession of the Statute of IRENa of 15 April 2010, the Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia to the Federal Republic of Germany Dr Miro Kovac signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 25 May 2010 at the headquarters of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany the Statute of IRENA. Article 2 The law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts is delivered by the same statute for ratification. The amount of the membership of the signatories shall be determined according to the contribution scale in the United Nations. Following the Resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations of the United Nations, IRENA shall determine the amount in the budget following the Agency's work programme, and the amount of individual memberships shall depend on the number of members and on the available international funds. The implementation of the statutes provides funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia at the position of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship of approximately $25,000 a year. The conclusion of the statutes and the confirmation of the same would create the interest of the Republic of Croatia for full membership in the International Agency for Renewable Energy. The Republic of Croatia will share with its membership the latest experiences on new technologies and use the best knowledge in strengthening national capacity for sustainable use of renewable energy. The Republic of Croatia will participate in global collection and exchange of information and knowledge regarding renewable energy sources. In addition, it will be able to be further affirmed internationally and offer other markets its technology and knowledge. I therefore propose the adoption of the emergency procedure of this law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71705	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. The Economic Committee? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71706	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The draft law confirming the Statute of the IRENA International Agency for Renewable Energy is very important when it comes to our membership. Therefore, the membership of the Republic of Croatia or its active participation in that agency. Because it has actually developed comprehensive solutions in the field of energy with its Statute. Energy is a fundamental human need. Without it, there would actually be a stalemate at all levels. In order to encourage the development of humanity at all, especially economic growth in order to achieve the need to develop primarily accessible, reliable, clean and sustainable energy. Today, we face many challenges in the world as a joke in global warming, then less and less, therefore, supplies of natural resources. We have an extraordinary expansion of the number of people in the world. Energy consumption is increasing. They also grow in proportion to energy prices. That energy distribution is also uneven. Energy sources are diverse, etc. All of these factors that we're talking about actually require a complete emergency transformation in the energy sector. This would primarily mean that we should not only rely on fossil fuels so far, but should primarily switch, transform to the use of renewable energy sources. As such, they actually mean bioenergy, geothermal energy, hydro energy, ocean energy, wind energy, solar energy, and these are the ones that are today, so most known as renewable energy. The renewable energy source is a key solution not only to the current challenges, but to the future at all energy in the world. Many countries have to say the same, but gradually and slowly produce steps, as well as the use of these renewable energy sources through different approaches. However, this current use is limited regardless of the fact that there are extremely high potentials in the world. Obstacles are numerous. First of all, it's an administration. Therefore, long procedural, import customs duties, then various technical barriers, including the uncertainty of financing renewable energy projects, insufficient awareness in the world of renewable sources and the like. Why did I bring this all up at first? This is because all of this was based on the establishment of the IRENA International Agency for Renewable Energy, which, in fact, prefers and sets out comprehensive solutions for these challenges, primarily the promotion of all forms of renewable energy sources, i.e. to develop such energy projects at local, regional and national level, in which the specificities of each member will be expressed through ecological, economic and socio-cultural conditions, therefore members of the Agency themselves. In order to successfully implement and resolve the issues of the agencies, the Agency is working to actively involve all energy participants. It comes primarily from the academic community. So science, education through all levels and forms of civil society, but also other areas, because it is necessary for the agency to act as such, so throughout the world. As we heard from Mr. Secretary of State of the Agency for Renewable Energy, the International Agency for Renewable Energy was officially founded in Bonn on 26 January 2009. The statute of the Agency shall be in force from 8 June 2010. So far, it has been signed by 149 states, 48 African and 38 European, 35 Asian and 17 American, 10 countries of Oceania, and Australia, and the European Union alongside them. The government of the Republic of Croatia recognized the Agency's character, and it is manifested as we will hear later in multiple, so multiple in many levels. It adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the accession of the Statute on 15 April 2010, and the signing of the Statute of the Agency was carried out on 25 May 2010. The Agency, as we could hear earlier on, is based on the Statute but authorized by governments around the world, which as we see many members of the agency have actually given the Agency the opportunity to encourage maximum adoption, maintenance and use of all forms of renewable energy. It actually acts better as a single global voice for renewable energy sources and allows access to all relevant renewable energy information, including numerous technical data, economic, economic data, but also renewable potentials. It encourages, as we could hear earlier, all the national potentials that exist, but also all the priorities that each country has and benefit from through measures of overall energy efficiency, but also by encouraging and protecting the environment, fostering economic growth in many countries, sustainable development, one today perhaps insecure, but according to it secure energy supply, development of regional development, etc. This law that we have in this House today should confirm the Statute and the provisions of Article 140. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia becomes part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. What does the Republic of Croatia get with membership in IRENA? It first aims to build a system that will balance a overall development of relations, but also security of supply as I mentioned earlier with energy, competitiveness, then what is especially at the price of preserving the environment, because quality, secure, available, but also enough that we are clearly lacking, energy supply is both a prerequisite and an overall economic but overall development of the Republic of Croatia, and that is why membership in IRENA is very important and signifying for the Republic of Croatia. We have already heard that involving the Republic of Croatia agency should pay the annual payment of the circus around 134 thousand to 135 thousand kuna, and it is determined according to the scale of contributions in the United Nations. The funds are secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011, at the position of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, competitiveness and sustainability of the energy system. The basis for the adoption of this Law confirming the statutes of the International Agency for Renewable Energy by emergency procedure is found in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the provision of Article 159, and since this participation of the Republic of Croatia in IREN is multiplely signifiable, for the above reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71707	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, HSU's distinguished representative, Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. On 15 April 2010, the Republic of Croatia signed access to the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy, which has entered a company of 149 countries that will exchange experiences on new technologies, which means using best knowledge to strengthen national capacity for sustainable use of renewable energy. IRENA is conceived as a key international body in the field of renewable energy, as a consultant and partner in the expansion and use of renewable energy. Its aim, therefore, is to gather experiences and knowledge, and to transfer technologies between Member States. The approval of the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy shall be based on the principle of equality of all its members. The membership and active participation of the Republic of Croatia in IRENA will contribute to the achievement of the objective, the building of systems, the balanced development of relations between security, energy supply, competitiveness and environmental conservation, which will enable Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy to make quality, security and accessible, sufficient supply of energy, as a prerequisite for economic and social progress. It has already been mentioned that in this sense, the Republic of Croatia will also have certain financial obligations, which will be paid in the annual membership fee and the amount of $25,000 is mentioned, or somewhere around 33,000 kuna. A few words about renewable energy sources. Renewable energy sources are sources derived from nature, which can be restored, are now increasingly used because of their environmental safety. The most common uses are wind, sun and water energy. What do we get from these sources? Renewable energy sources play a very important role in reducing carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere. The increase in the share of renewable energy sources increases the system's energy sustainability, also helps improve energy supply security in a way that reduces dependence on imports of energy raw materials and electricity. Furthermore, renewable energy sources are expected to become economically competitive with conventional energy sources. For all these reasons, the HNS Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71709	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71710	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, State Secretary and Associates. The Croatian Peasant Party Representatives' Club will support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Statutes of the IREN International Agency for Renewable Energy. It is clear that the membership and active participation of the Republic of Croatia in IRENA will also contribute to the achievement of the objective of building a system of balanced development of the relationship between energy security, the competitiveness of environmental protection, which will enable Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy to make quality, security, availability and sufficient supply of energy as a prerequisite for economic and social progress. Of course, the Croatian Peasant Party advocates a stronger use of renewable energy sources and energy production precisely from such sources. The Republic of Croatia has set its targets in this energy sector, and the target by 2020 is to increase the share of renewable energy sources in total and direct consumption from 12%, as it was in 2005 goid, 20%, increase the share of renewable energy sources in electricity production to 36%, increase the share of biofuels in transport to 10%, increase the share of renewable energy sources of cooling and heating to 16%, and increase energy efficiency by 9% compared to the average of 2001-2005. Of course, these are ambitious and demanding goals, but only such goals, meeting these goals can lead us to energy independence that we seek, to create jobs that are extremely important, to protect the environment, but that is also the main measure for climate change mitigation. For this very reason, two weeks ago, at the meeting of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection, the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, Dr. Pachauri. In 2007, he and former US Deputy Prime Minister Al Goreo won the Nobel Peace Prize, and related to discoveries that should ease climate change. It has been pointed out in the studies that greenhouse gas emissions should not exceed the critical level that would result in a global rise in air temperature greater than 2 degrees Celsius in the 21st century. Above that value would be stimulated by additional global warming processes that could no longer be affected by emission reductions, resulting in catastrophic natural impacts such as an increase in the average sea level by 6 to 7 metres. Namely, in an explanation of the Nobel Peace Prize Foundation of 2007 it is essential to point out that these established facts need to be approached with the greatest seriousness and should be kept in mind. We sometimes pretend that climate change has no impact on us and that it happens to some other people where the floods are, where there are great storms and where even governments fall due to climate change, so all those who make decisions must understand that climate change affects us all together. They also affect migration, of course, because many will have to look for a new home in search of basic living resources. Of course it'll hit those most vulnerable countries in the world, but we can't watch it with our eyes closed. All these consequences can, of course, lead to increased dangers from overall conflicts and wars both within and between states. And that is why Croatia should also be serious about addressing climate change issues, regardless of the small pollutant in both regional and global terms. And the best measures in this particular segment are those measures drawn up within the framework of energy, which relate to renewable energy sources. It is clear, however, that the Croatian contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is small, that it is 34% lower than the EU Member States' average, but Croatia certainly wants to contribute to a global fight for a better tomorrow. In this respect, and we are taking on commitments at global level, and Croatia's temporary negotiating goal towards joining the EU is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 5% compared to the base 1990s, while we are taking on commitments as a member of the EU, which is a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and conditionally, it can even raise the scale by 30% if certain obligations are accepted by undeveloped countries. Everyone here is present, and I think it is clear that it can also cause major financial consequences if we do not begin to fulfil our obligations and if we do not meet all the measures. And somewhere on the basis of so far established data and relevant indicators, it is estimated that the fight to mitigate the consequences of climate change or recovery from damage directly or indirectly caused by the effects of global warming will affect the economic development of all countries, and the cost of failing to meet the commitments undertaken under the RS estimates could stand up to 2% of GDP annually. So this is a very serious warning that is not only for us from the HSS club but also for the Nobel Peace Prize winner Mr. Pachauri who was visiting here in the Croatian Parliament. That is why we believe that here is today's law confirming the Statute of IRENA and the activities that will take place within the IRENA are a contribution to a greater energy security and a stronger use of renewable energy sources. But here, we at the HSS Club encourage all those who have an impact on these processes being stronger and faster and simpler because I have to repeat what I said several times unfortunately sometimes takes 50 permits to build a biomass plant. And also a slightly smaller number of permits are needed to set up solar collectors and use solar energy from therefore renewable sources, which we think is a major obstacle to a stronger congestion of the use of renewable energy sources, and we are calling for processes to be significantly simplified in this segment. As I said, the HSS Representatives' Club will support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy (IRENA). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71711	Thank you. In the name of the SDP club, distinguished representative Mirela Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71712	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that the SDP Club will support this proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy with the final proposal for a law. As far as this document is concerned, absolutely nothing is disputed. This is as much as it is known in 2012 as the post-Kyot period, which includes the start of trade in CO2 emissions. This will greatly change the world's current energy image because it will, through greenhouse gas trade, lead to the price of renewable energy energy becoming more competitive than the price of fossil fuels. We believe in the SDP club that implementation of renewable energy projects is a great opportunity for Croatia and not only in the environmental protection part, although environmental protection is of course the most important thing for us and our obligations regarding climate change, or the fight against climate change, but renewable energy sources can be something else. So, they should be viewed not only through a way to ensure a certain amount of energy for the needs of the population but we believe that a new economic cycle in the Republic of Croatia can be launched through renewable energy sources. We need these commitments that are ahead of us 20, 20, 20 which means 20% of renewable energy sources in total energy, or 20% of greenhouse gas reductions by 2020, in line with our international obligations, and also our ambitions to join the EU, but only on our own depends on how we realise it. Whether we will realise these objectives in a way that will benefit us only in terms of improving the state of the environment, i.e. reducing emissions or benefit from it also in terms of starting a new cycle of economic development of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, if we continue to drive in the current direction we will implement renewable energy sources by 20% by 2020, however, we will probably realise this in a way that we will use foreign technology and that the benefits of implementing renewable energy projects in the Republic of Croatia will mainly be foreign economies. I don't think that's the goal of the Republic of Croatia and that we have to try to launch the established economy of the Republic of Croatia through renewable energy sources. It can be done, we have all the brains, all the knowledge, we have companies like Končar, we have companies like Đura Djakovic, we have shipyards and it's safe to go right through projects so-called Đura Đaković. Small energies, through renewable energy sources, can also be profiled on global markets. In this sense, it would remind us that Končar is a company that is already selling its technology today, and in Europe this refers specifically to hydropower plants and we believe that it will soon become competitive with its wind power plants or wind turbines. NO, we see that today in Croatia the situation with renewable energy sources is far from ideal. In 2011, we still do not have the Law on renewable energy sources, this area covers some five laws, a whole series of sublegal acts that act more as a brakesman of the realisation of renewable energy projects than something that will stimulate renewable energy sources, and it is necessary to change that as soon as possible. We are getting information from the department's jurisdiction whose representatives and representatives are also sitting with us now that the Law on Renewable Energy is being written, however, we could say that everyone is talking about it but no one knows anything, so the question is whether we will have a chance to discuss this bill at all in this term. The question is also why the Republic of Croatia does not have a map of renewable energy sources that would say in a fairly logical way where the potentials of renewable energy types in the Republic of Croatia are because, unfortunately, projects such as a bio-mass power plant in Koprivnica are happening today, and this is a fairly large biomass plant in Koprivnica, and we know that near Koprivnica there are not many large sources of wood cuttings, so the question is whether they will not be positive effects expected in terms of reducing emissions by bringing and building from great distances. It is therefore necessary to adopt a map of renewable energy sources in the Republic of Croatia so as to avoid such illogical situations, and in addition, in parallel with the adoption of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and the map of renewable energy sources, a single gap that is now going on could be bridged and very complicated by the procedure and potential investors in this part makes it very impossible to process or process for three or more years. One key issue that comes before us when we talk about renewable energy sources is why we still have not implemented it in April 2011. The third European energy package, which was our obligation to temporarily close Chapter 15 regarding energy. We had an amendment to the Electricity Market Act already at the time we warned that it was illogical to amend that law and we must soon change it precisely because of the implementation of the third European energy package, so we were assured that this would happen in the third month. The 3rd month has passed and we have not yet implemented a third European energy package which will also provide the necessary incentive for the development of renewable energy sources and not only in the part of strengthening the independence of regulators i.e. HERA rather than through the obligation to separate transmission and distribution of electricity from HEP, which has so far proved to be a very large braker of the process. Of course, transmission and distribution of electricity are extremely important for the Republic of Croatia and it is necessary to separate this activity from HEP into a company that will be in 100% state-owned without the possibility of privatisation. Also, all clubs have so far supported this status and somehow all agree that renewable energy sources are necessary for a number of reasons, but the fact is that in 2009, we adopted a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia that favours large energy and is not encouraging for renewable energy sources, so by 2020, we are planning to realise 83 of some fifth joint in the area of renewable energy sources and Croatia's potentials in this part according to the research of the Croatian Pozhar Institute are significantly higher and amounting to some 120 to 150 fifths. And to end up with a reminder in 2012 means starting a period of trade in emissions. We know very well that the Republic of Croatia has failed to realise the Kyoto Protocol goals and that we have not reduced 5% of our emissions compared to 1990, which is the reference year, which means that we may have to buy emissions between 50 and 100 million euros on the market by next year. And yet another illogical fact is that at present the debate over the environmental impact study for TE Plomin 3 is in the process of so-called "Te Plomin" 3. the reconstruction of TE Plomin 3 which will be realised according to the investor's ideas through the use of coal in increasing capacity from 100 to 500 megawatts. I'm afraid it doesn't count on us paying for that extra carbon emission that's almost half way so 50% is higher than the gas emissions are also going to have to pay for additional emissions on the emission market. I think that in this sense Croatia does not have a great alternative in the field of energy, and we certainly need some other major energy projects such as thermal power plants, but the question is which technology we will use and whether this technology should be not it but the best technology available, but the technology that is slowly on its way out from all countries of the developed world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71713	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual hearing has one reported, it's Mr. Representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71714	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry there are no more applications. I would say that it is absolutely clear that all clubs will accept it, why, because it is one institution we expect and hope to improve the relationship of the Republic of Croatia towards renewable energy sources and the development of such energy sources and the very orientation of the Republic of Croatia in this kind of energy sense. I am one of those who last year during the debate on the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Croatia spoke as well as my colleagues in a way that I consider that she has one great flaw, and that is that very renewable energy sources are poorly represented. In the first row, in terms of giving meaning to such energy sources, and in the second sense, to say projects or the very intensity of that strategy did not give priority enough to all other energy sources. What is also important is that renewable energy sources are relatively poorly represented in the rest of the Croatian legislation, which touches the issue of energy, and thus remain quite neglected in its own developmental sense and in terms of exploitation, as well as those effects that they can achieve. When we talk about some local level then it is primarily important to point out that to a large extent this area of renewable energy exploitation is left to them by the units of local self-government that they are developing, that they are looking for their potential in all of this, and thus it remains much to say neglectedly. Why do I mention this? Because I believe that renewable energy sources are a powerful potential, an immeasurable potential of the Republic of Croatia and that they simply need to get their place not only in energy terms but also in terms of one economic development, as well as in all kinds of social, social and all other segments of development, primarily of local and regional self-government. It is known that the sustainable development of local self-government units is primarily in rural areas. When we talk about the Republic of Croatia, then we talk about an area that is more than 90% of Croatia's land area, we're talking about an area where about 50% of the population of the Republic of Croatia lives, we're talking about an area that is beyond or above 75% undeveloped. We have seen from the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 2009 according to that index of development, which is the state of both the regional and local self-government units. I come from Slavonia from Vukovar-Srijem County. I regret to point out that, in this sense, according to this development index, all five Slavonian counties are in that first category, whose development index is below 75% of the average index of development of the Republic of Croatia. Similarly, Vukovar-Srijem County is one of the most underdeveloped since we are changing with Brod-Posavina constantly in the area of development or underdevelopment and that three municipalities from Vukovar-Srijem County are at the very bottom. They are below 50% of the RH's development index. What is this whole introduction about this local self-government? Because one of the only ones in that first category that is below 50% of the development index is, say, Babin Greda. One of the larger municipalities in the Republic of Croatia is one of the larger settlements in the Republic of Croatia that has very interesting potentials. The famous thing is that Babina Greda has a source of geothermal water that, according to its indicators, is at the temperature of that source, which is about 125°C belongs to the best category, which according to geothermal potential, which is more than double the average geothermal potential in Europe. It falls in just the same way in exceptional sources, which according to its amount of water that is delivered on the mouth only by pour is also at the very top, which, according to its composition, is at the very top. Unfortunately, though, projects that can be implemented there are primarily left to local self - government units. Even when it comes to realising such projects, there are always some obstacles. I therefore expect that by signing this statute where it is said that we will enter into a circle of a large number of countries that potentiate such a development of renewable sources, that in this sense we will pay more attention and all that is needed in some material sense to exploit this geothermal source in Babina Greda. But it's not just Babi's beam that's famous for it. It's one of the municipalities in the continental part that has a contract with one company to build a solar power plant. Why? Because, by some miracle, the average insulation in the area of Babina GReda in that part is so high that it gives justification to such a single project. Or a third thing. Babina Greda is usually in Vukovar-Srijem County of the municipalities with the most developed livestock. It exists and has already passed this legislative part of a project to build a biogas plant, a biogas power plant. So what is the significance of these projects and this behavior of local self-government? In being an underdeveloped community, they have come to know all the potentials and all the opportunities that they are given to make their own contribution to this so-called. clean energy gives birth to their community. So I expect this kind of document, which, as you said today on the board, I think Madam Secretary of State, to fill an institutional void. Because this is one of the institutions that deals exclusively with renewable energy sources that we haven't had at this level so far. I therefore expect that, through the accession to this international agency, this area of exploitation of renewable energy will be opened in a much better, better way in the Republic of Croatia and thus provide opportunities for such rural environments that have the possibility of such exploitation, and so far have not succeeded. So I expect stronger state support with a document like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71715	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Davor Huška. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71716	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I'm signing 90% of what you said and I really agree with you, you're talking about the example of Babina beam, but the whole of Croatia is one great potential to produce energy from renewable sources, and it's certainly important, and perhaps the biggest role on local self-government units, in local communities, because we need to do those first steps and research, find opportunities to use renewable energy sources. And the state, I don't agree with you here, you say you need to encourage more. So I remind you here is only the Energy Efficiency Fund that offers a whole series of programs where units of local self-government and other entities can run for use of grants with minimal co-financing in this area of renewable energy use. This year alone, according to my information, more than 500 requests from cities, the municipality came to the address of the Energy Efficiency Fund, about 400 applications were for environmental protection. So there are possibilities, the state offers possibilities. We in the field must recognize which city, municipality has different potentials. Here I'll tell you, Lipik and Pakrac are on hot water beds, geothermal springs, doing research, water is already used in Lipik, I hope soon and in Pakrac. On our county moving construction I mean the first little hydrothermia on the Orljava in the town of Pleternica right on the initiative of the unit of local self-government. We don't have to wait for the state to put everything down on our plate. The state provides conditions, provides funds, and it is up to us to make good use of those funds. And I believe once again that the whole of Croatia is one big, huge potential for renewable energy sources, and we also have to commercialize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71717	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Goran Heffer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71718	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Huška, of course you and I come from the same area. When we talk about the geothermal sphere, it's that so-called geothermal sphere. The Pannonian swimming pool, which is remarkable for this geothermal potential, far above the European pool, so I expect that both you and we and all of these around us will continue to do so. But when we talk about financing and talking about projects, then we'll see when we discuss the usefulness of IPA projects in the IPARD area that I think 302 is not even accredited properly yet, so that's another story. But I also cannot fully agree that the state is doing everything because the example of bioethanol in Osijek, the port of Osijek, which has been waiting for years for certain documents and cannot be found, requires a variety of studies, etc., shows how the state can also say to throw plungers at the feet of certain investors to develop such sources. So there is still a certain sphere of lack of understanding, say the state itself, in all of this, so I expect that, through this kind of approach to the international organisation, it will certainly be better solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71719	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. We're about to interrupt the afternoon session. We will continue at 3 p.m. with item 6 and this is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 737. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71720	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy (IRENA), the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 747, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law confirming the Statute of the International Agency for Renewable Energy (IRENA). Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 105 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71721	We're continuing the session. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the rights and duties of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 737. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Legislatives and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. The Minister of Management Davorin Mlakar will further explain the proposal. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71722	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament can thus be said by a technical law aimed at equating the conditions for obtaining the pension of parliamentary representatives and parliamentarians. Therefore, it is the development of the general principle established in the pension law in which years of life acquires the conditions for retirement, which means that since 2012 conditions will be tightened after three months, in order to equalise the conditions as prescribed by the General Peace Act to acquire the right to retire with 60 years of life, this is the basis for compliance with the general pension principle. This has been elaborated and Article 3. Amendments and additions to the Law where, under the Constitutional Court's decision, the conditions of age for retirement must be uniform for both women and men. The proposal was therefore to apply the same principle in the general pension system to the pensions of parliamentary deputies. The unique conditions would be 60 years of life and 25 years of retirement effort to exercise the right to resign by increasing the terms of the 55-year-old life since 2012 as I said three months each year in order to equalise themselves with the conditions relating to representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Since the earlier law which we intervened in the rights and duties of MPs in the Croatian Parliament was proposed to give effect to this law on the day of the constitution of the new convocation after the next elections, the proposal is also in this law to be the date on which this amendment and addition will take effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71723	Thank you. Legislative committees? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HDZ representative club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that the club of representatives of the HDZ supports the amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So, this regulation that is before us, in our opinion, has two main characteristics, which are actually a tendency to make changes to this law so that the conditions for achieving this kind of pension are strengthened, to meet all the cumulative conditions that are necessary to achieve the right to do so, as we say the parliamentary pension and other characteristics of this bill are, in fact, equalising the status of men and women and women, so to prescribe uniform conditions as regards age and other conditions in order to achieve that right. Therefore, the proposed conditions which must be cumulatively met in order to meet the conditions of retirement is, of course, the condition of the conduct of the parliamentary term of at least 4 years, i.e. the full term of representation in one meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, the rest of the term of office is not included in the duration of the term of office in determining the conditions for retirement and what is needed to stress, so the conditions of 60 years of life and 25 years of retirement for the purpose of establishing the conditions for retirement, so the women would be increased by three months each year to equalise with the same condition for male representatives. What is very important to emphasize when we talk about these amendments and additions or those that were before the amendment or supplementation of this Law. Often, this regulation is seen as only applies to representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I believe that, under this Act, pension insurance rights are exercised under more favourable conditions and for former members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Chief State Auditor and that all those amendments and additions that have so far been made to tighten the conditions or cumulatively met conditions in order to exercise the right to this kind of pension. So it really takes three conditions, so they have to be met. The first refers to years of age, the second refers to a 25-year period of insurance and, of course, to the conditions relating to the duration of the parliamentary term, so that it is at least one parliamentary term, or four years, that someone acted as representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In line with everything said and given that it was mentioned in the opening statement of its decision of the Constitutional Court. So, the Constitutional Court's decision, which was actually in a sense conditional upon this amendment and the addition of the law. Therefore, that they must be equated naturally during a transitional period of time conditions for men and women. The amendments in question should be proposed because, in Article 2 of the proposed amendments, it is done and coordinated as they have been done and thus they have become and, therefore, in the same way, resolved this system of harmonisation with the pension insurance rules when we talk about this situation of parliamentary deputies. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community's club fully supports this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71725	Thank you. HSS representative's club, Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71726	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament are logical consequences of the Constitutional Court's decision to equalise the age for retirement for men and women. It is binding, and is thus transposed into legal regulations. As much as some consider it questionable and whether this has ever been done to bring about justice, that is, whether gender discrimination is really correct because we know that women continue in our societies and families as the people say they keep three corners of the house. Today, we are discussing the legal changes that the decision has just come up with. They equidistant the age of retirement of MPs and MPs. Advocacy pensions as well as the work of representatives in the Croatian Parliament as we know them are often the subject of criticism of the media and the public which tells us that we have not been able to demonstrate and prove how we work so far. In public, it often tries to show that all politicians are the same and that all MPs are the same, and that is not the case. However, a generally negative attitude toward politics could distance capable and perspective people from a man’s life of important political activity. Not enough just nicely engaged programs. The credibility of the person behind the program is also important. It would therefore be for us as a people to become ready to take a step forward and set moral criteria for an acceptable politician. The reason is that politicians are the people who represent, represent and decide our lives. We should, therefore, be interested in who we choose, but our voters still don't have a built-up political figure and often like to say they're all the same. And politics isn't just about politicians. Politics is a matter of all citizens. Therefore, we need first of all to get out of our way when making a score on politicians and politics. We expect our colleague to be at his post. We're late for work. We expect the state to provide us with prosperity, and we don't pay her taxes. We expect our spouse to be faithful to us, and we on the other hand don't behave like that. And that's exactly what we choose politicians like ourselves, and we expect to get better. In order to reward and promote good in politics, evil has been punished and prevented by appropriate education and the maturity of citizens and citizens in order to ensure that demagogues and similar dangerous persons are properly seen and prevented. In order to be successful, all citizens must actively participate in the exercise of their civic duties from going to the polls to actively engaging in politics. It is precisely in the circumstances described when politics and politicians are thought and spoken of all the worst ingratitude to talk about the rights that MPs have regardless of what this law and previous laws are reducing. Namely, the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament lays down the rights of pension insurance of MPs in the Croatian Parliament so that the right to an old age pension can be met before the conditions under the Pension Insurance Act are met, and with the provision of a more favourable pension. Thus, representatives of the age pension can achieve after a 20-year term, and at the age of 50 for women and 55 for men, while MPs who have acted three times in senior retirement can achieve 15 years of retirement. Representatives may exercise the right to resign on condition that they have acted in the Croatian Parliament for longer than half the term of office in which the term of office is included and in which the term of office has rested because of the election or appointment of the second term of office. The law on the reduction of pensions laid down under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has reduced parliamentary pensions by 10% and the Law on the reduction of pensions laid down by specific rules on pension insurance and the pensions are reduced by an additional 10%. The Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament was amended in 2009 in a way that changed the conditions for the exercise of the right to represent an old age pension so that the future pension could be achieved by representatives who had acted in that capacity for at least 4 years, i.e. the full term of office, who had completed at least 25 years of retirement, and if men were 60 and 55, respectively, if they were women. The 2009 law has not yet entered into force, so it will refer to MPs in the next meeting. Users of parliamentary pensions so far have registered 519 with an average pension of 8654 kuna and 3 June per month. As we know, the consequences of the global financial economic crisis have not been bypassed by Croatia, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the ruling majority, with the aim of further stabilising and fostering economic growth, have adopted the Economic Recovery Programme. Since the Programme for Economic Recovery provided for the implementation and revision of the pension schemes acquired under special conditions and their reduction, and for the preparation for the gradual abolition of certain categories, changes to pension insurance rights under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Assembly were also made. This proposal, which we are discussing today, regulates that the conditions for retirement should be the conduct of the parliamentary term of at least 4 years, i.e. the full term of office in one meeting of the Croatian Parliament, determine the unique conditions of 60 years of life and 25 years of retirement, with the aim of increasing the terms of the 55-year-old life from 2012 to equalising with the same conditions for MPs. However, before the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, a representative who has failed to exercise the right to resign from representation under the rules applicable at a time when he has exercised his representative's duty, regardless of the time of application for the right to resign. For MPs, women, the current condition of 50 years of life since 2012 would increase by three months each year until the same conditions for MPs, which were valid until the entry into force of this bill, meaning until 2031. The Croatian Peasants' Club will support the adoption of this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71727	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71728	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. In light of this law, the minister said this is a technical law. If this is technical law, I'm Ivo Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71729	Just a minute. I don't see well from this position. Oh, yeah, there's a similarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71730	Yes, there is. We're both behind the pillar, obviously. This is a law that extends some of the privileges of the political elite, but with delayed application. He's got a guarantee for four years. And the first application of the provisions of this law will be at the end of 2016. Not before. It's interesting to now pass for the third time the laws that will apply in four years, approximately. I remind you that it is the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, because of the so-called. The general pension law had to equalise the conditions for retirement for male and female insurance undertakings. But it is amazing that the Constitutional Court, when considering the concept and making that decision, did not consider, under official duty, that, in addition to the general pension law, gender inequality from the title of obtaining the right to retire exists in three other laws, and could have been remembered by the same decision to declare, repeal, also the provisions of the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives, which would have affected that provision of the Government Act which does not have a specific regulation. This is otherwise very cleverly carried out, the Government Act states that members of the government's pension are being implemented according to the regulations applicable to MPs. But their decision would also apply to them, as there is also a provision in the Constitutional Court Law that judges and judges of the Constitutional Court make retirement according to the rules applicable to parliamentary deputies. Therefore, respected constitutional judges and judges have made a decision to annul gender inequality in the general pension regulation, but have not thought that gender equality should also be introduced into the law under which they and they both exercise the right to retire. Would this proposal of the government law not have been the same if it hadn't been for this document sent to the Constitutional Court on 19 November last year, in which the Croatian Labour Party had asked the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the provisions that are now being amended? Probably wouldn't. Because even if the Government had thought of it, in a package with a change of the general pension law, it could come with this and the same procedure, the same day gender equality would be included in all the laws that regulate the conditions for obtaining the right to pension. But no, first we did it for the workers, the officers, the tenants and all the other citizens, so that only now would the government come with a proposal like this. This is a unique law of something else. This law in 1995, and all new and new amendments and were complemented only by the sons and daughters of that 1995 law, the Croatian Parliament then adopted not on the government's proposal, not on a proposal by any club of representatives, but on a group of representatives. It's probably a very rare situation, and then the main line of reasoning was that of '95. There are a number of MPs and MPs in the Assembly who, during the Yugoslav totalitarian system, were unable to achieve a working internship and thus the right to retire. Is that argument still valid today, 20 years, 15 years later? Do we today in the Government, the Parliament and the Constitutional Court have representatives and MPs who do not have enough employment to achieve pensions under the general pension rules? They don't think so. If it's '95 then. It was socially justified and necessary, I don't think today is any more. And it is good that the Government has made this proposal, because it will relieve the Constitutional Court, and I am sure that after the adoption of these amendments, the Constitutional Court will very quickly send us a decision that there is no basis for the assessment of constitutionality because the Parliament has made changes in the meantime. That's cleverly played. Well done. But there's more. There's more. This law therefore applies from the first day of the convocation of the new Assembly, which means that its application will begin in 2016, and be careful now to establish a transitional period for women until 2030, as if it were an increase in the age limit to 65 years. Because this transition period since 2030, in the general pension law for women, has been made because their age limit has increased to 65 years of life, and here is 60 years of life. Why? If the proposings of this proposal require a transitional period by 2030, then it would be correct to increase life-limits to 65 years of life. But there's more. All those who from 1995 to today, but during this time also convened the Parliament, but during the next assembly of the Assembly, have acquired the right to this pension by the regulations that were at that time, will be able to activate it according to the old law. The reasons and the assessment of the situation do not state how many such candidates are, as it could not be calculated or taken from the records. If we are a society of equality, if we are for a society of equal rights, I am now asking why we are now introducing a new line of injustice that those from the times past and this present call on pension rights by old regulations, here I am thinking of members and members of the Government, as well as judges and judges of the Constitutional Court, but we are making them unequal. At the same time as 2 MPs on the same day, 2 members of the Government at the Peace Institute will apply for a pension will be subject to 2 laws. And the reason is that this bill is submitted due to the economic recovery programme is extremely hypocritical because its effects will be only in 2018, not before. Therefore, it would be advised not to call future proposals of the law not technical or economic recovery but rather what they really are. To do everything in our power to keep our privileges and to share the fate of the people, but from a new mandate, not from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71731	Thank you. Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71732	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rights and Obligations of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and, in my humble assessment, it is a very limited achievement of this law, it is a pure cosmetic without entering into the essence of things and without the will to respect the very well-founded demands of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for the privileges of MPs, the privileges of the political elite to be reduced, or abolished. So this is a bill that technically addresses the issue of gender equality, but I'm wondering something else. Compared to the general regulation on pension insurance, I wonder, I have a huge dilemma, whether representatives in the Croatian Parliament are men. Because according to general regulations, for all men, the age of 65 is worth going into full retirement, and now it's worth 60 for MPs, and with that fact we're harmonising. So here some pots are mixed. Of course, the issue of a transitional period of 20 years is not appropriate to this law at all, and it is appropriate to amend and supplement the Pension Insurance Act because it is very different situations. It's about people who are 40 and over, that's not what this is about. Of course, the hardest thing to do in this story is to speak against yourself and it's the easiest thing to say to be a populist. However, the time in which we live and the environment in which we live makes us think differently about the legitimate demands of our citizens to take advantage of their pensions, to abolish the rights under special regulations. In this regard, it is only about equalisation based on age for retirement, i.e. early retirement. Of course, the adoption of this law will not satisfy any citizen who is also a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who is dissatisfied with this level of privilege in the Republic of Croatia. I think the time has come for us, like our Slovenian neighbours, to consider and to all retire under the general rules, and to make political decisions in terms of whether our work is worth a year's internship or a year's term of office or a year's internship in the Croatian Parliament or a term of office whether it is worth an appropriate retirement allowance. We have these solutions in the pension system with academics. So they go to their pensions, pensions earned under the general rules, and make an addition to their pension in view of their social status. I advocate that it is not only a privilege but also a concrete job and that there are certain merits of this parliamentary representative and that this should be valorised both by mandate and by year and by work in this Croatian Assembly. But the citizens of Croatia do not accept the fact that the representative has a pension after 2 years and 1 day of stay, i.e. the conduct of his duties in the Croatian Parliament, that he has a pension whose level is equal to that of being a top manager or CEO, led a company of 5,000 people full of 40 years. That fact, that fact, our citizens cannot accept, and I think we must agree with that fact. There are variations and ways in which this problem can be solved. So, I mentioned one. The second option is possible to establish a pension for parliamentary representatives, but to apply it in proportion, so only for years of stay in the Croatian Parliament. And these are all the solutions that I say are much more tolerable, which are more acceptable to Croatian citizens than this solution. I want to share one piece of information with you, and that's what's happening in our neighborhood. In neighbouring Slovenia, their original Law on MPs or therefore representatives in Article 39 regulated the pension of MPs after at least 23 years of working life compared to the usual 40 without a defined age, in practice the pension was already possible from 38 years of age, with 70 to 80% of the basics. 30. Six. 1994. The Constitutional Court of Slovenia ruled on the anti-constitution of a privileged pension. However, the explanation does not reject the compatibility of the ideas of the rule of law or of the social state with the privileged pension of legislators. However, the privilege of the previous parliamentary pension was considered to be too high and not in line with the causes of that privilege. For example, it is stated that the logic of the preferential pension stems from the specificity of the work done in relation to other opportunities, and in the case of pensioners, the right to retire is realised by the fact that such a job has been done rather than with the duration of employment. So, this is the basis of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia's arguments on this issue and today Slovenian MPs retire under the general rules. Therefore, after the Constitutional Court rejected them, although the Constitutional Court allowed the possibility of estimating the parliamentary duties and otherwise did not dare to propose a new Law on MPs. I am talking about the facts, very well, I think that Croatia lives in that area, Croatia is where it is, that it cannot be dramatically different from its neighbours because we are such a people who like to watch and always think that grass in the neighbor's yard is greener, so we need to take care of that fact and we need to know what about us those who chose us think. I say again, I underline I have not said at any point that the duty of elected MPs should not be valorised, that it should, but all rights should be in the same section with all ordinary citizens because regardless of what we are elected at the end we are ordinary citizens, ordinary mortals, and that surely the result of our pension rights must ultimately be determined by the total payment of contributions throughout the year. This is very fair in relation to our citizens and in some way corresponds, in some ways expressing let's say social justice or in some way depicts the desire that we all share an equal destiny and not to single ourselves out into privileged political elites. So, so much for that, surely in the absence of a better solution, this is a small shift, although cosmetically, there is no reason not to vote for this, but it is a very short-range solution and as far as the issue is concerned, it does not get in the essence of the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71733	Thank you very much. And now it's your turn again on behalf of the HNSU Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71734	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This part on behalf of the Club I'm going to use one review of yesterday's journal 3. Namely, now it is a real competition, I really do what I said personally and think, and I think there is no development of democracy as long as in large parties people are willing to wait on the bench for reserve players and listen immaculately, so raise their hands as we agree, and what surprises me is that the number of parties and parties and parties who were parliamentary until yesterday, and today they are no longer talking about the Croatian Socio-Liberal Party who have suddenly discovered hot water and are talking about abolishing parliamentary pensions and 20 years sitting in this Croatian Assembly, had political power, they never said it in an appropriate way. It's populism, it's a fog sale and it's politically incorrect. Say your opinion and work it out when you can, but don't sell the fog. So, I really do what I say and think and if I'm ever in a position to decide on it then I will certainly do it on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retired People. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party and the Croatian People's Party, we will do this as the only solution that we are offered to support, because there is no reason not to support it going in the right direction but we still find these changes insufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71735	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71736	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 737 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 100 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71737	We're going to the next point. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, second reading, P.Z. No. 719. Proposer of the Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Law, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and this same committee has submitted amendments as the Committee on Legislatives. State Secretary at the Ministry of Management Pavle Maticic will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71738	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. Introductoryly, I will only say a few words since it is about amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants. The reasons for the amendments and additions of the Law on civil servants were to increase the mobility of civil servants, improve the system of evaluation of civil servants, the need to bring this Law on civil servants into line with the General Administrative Procedure Act, as well as to remove deficiencies in the Law observed during its application. The final draft law is in line with the observations and proposals expressed during the first reading as well as with the observations and proposals of the civil servants' union. So this final proposal would be shown to be consistent with the first reading. This specifically concerns some of the issues raised in these comments and suggestions. One of the questions was that technical assistance jobs as currently prescribed can also be entrusted to external service providers if security risks and financial effects are met. In this final draft of the law, a new institute is proposed, the Institute of Extraordinary Fire. We believe that the provisions on exceptional cancellation have been significantly improved in relation to the draft law, and is also in line with the observations and views of the trade unions, and in such a way as to give the state official extraordinary notice if, on the basis of the facts identified, he has committed a serious violation of the official duty which has the character of corruption, he calls into question the regular execution of the State body's affairs, legal persons and citizens of public interest. An appeal to the Committee on the State's Service which is urgent and the Committee on the State's Service is required to resolve this appeal within 30 days of the receipt of the complaint, and the solution becomes the executive day of the enforcement of this solution. Furthermore, the improved provisions relating to greater mobility of civil servants, or lighter conditions for transfer, are improved, where instead of conditions within the same category of workplace, the same or approximately complexity of jobs, it proposes the possibility of moving to a workplace within the same category, which are prescribed the same conditions for the degree of education and the necessary work experience, but in the safeguard provision for a member who moves the job less complexly to have the right to retain his salary so far if the last two years have been assessed by an exceptional or appropriate assessment. In particular, I would like to stress that in this law, the possibility of persons without working experience being admitted to a state body for professional training without the establishment of a working relationship within the state body and at the time of the training period, with the possibility of passing a state expert examination and recognising the time of professional training in work experience, as would be the work experience on the basis of a working contract for the time of performing part-time work in the state body and the time of professional training without the establishment of a working relationship in the state body and in local self-government. Finally, I would like to point out that the Government accepts the amendments of the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, the Businessman and the political system, and accordingly I propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the proposed Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71739	Thank you. The committees. The Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on the Constitution, the Businessman and the Political System? I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, HSU Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71740	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, which in 70 of its articles actually proves that because of the scope of the matter it deals with, it was much better to go to the adoption of a new law. In fact, it's almost 40% of the total text of the law we consider it serious enough to approach actually the adoption of a new law. But what is there is, we are where we are, we have a document that is significantly better than what we saw in the first reading and that is trying to, we want to be fair here, answer the key issues of modernization and reform of the state administration in this part, which concerns primarily human potentials, flow, progress, training, acceptance of all those details that may be technical at first sight but in practice create the structure and framework under which the internal life of the state administration takes place. But as my colleague Dr Doric said in the first reading debate, it is not as controversial as how we norm the issues on which the state administration works but how it is implemented in practice. Is it possible to reform the state administration by neglecting all other elements, all other factors that are past human potential, so we now translate into what we called personnel yesterday, affecting the functioning of the state administration. Here's just one example. The Federal Republic of Germany was also faced after the unification with the return of assets seized after World War II by private owners and its then offices had about a thousand 500 employees, were fully technologically and informatively equipped and they mainly finished the return business. In our case, the procedure lasts if I haven't been wrong for 16 years. Currently, in the offices of the state administration dealing with the issue of return of property, just over 400 people, offices are fully unarmed, informationally unrelated, and in this regard extremely low. People who have submitted their return requests are pulling their hair out of torment because it's mostly about older people who are wondering if they're going to experience a return of their property, and our documents say that next year we're going to solve 1/3 of the total number of cases. So that's actually a key thing or a paradigm situation that shows how the government works. Will we, by changing the rules governing the issue of reception, promotion, or promotion, further improvement and all other issues that are regulated by these amendments and by laws, resolve this crucial issue of the effectiveness of the state administration as a whole. We will only do so if these measures, if these new solutions are followed by one systematic approach to modernization, integration, networking of all state administration bodies. Because the existing practice that says that for banal things in front of the state is waiting years, that for banal things to be humiliated in front of civil servants, as if they were paying you as citizens, and not vice versa, it's not good. It reduces citizens' confidence in the institutions of the state and ultimately reduces the respect of the citizen himself towards the state. Finally, it reduces its level of commitment to that state, regardless of what it says in the laws, not to say that in its performance it means between the rest and the gray economy. So that's one thing... a round or a circle that can only be ripped apart if a determined government or government who is determined to move forward with reform is attacking this problem from all sides. [[You don't understand.]] We, ourselves from the HNS, have said that one of the key problems is why energy is being lost in the system of state administration in solving certain important social issues or in launching major projects that we have so-called. processive, and we haven't done anything yet to form a so-called. Project management. This applies equally, and perhaps even more eclantly to units of local and regional and regional self-government, because, compared to these solutions, it should also be accessible to new solutions that define the position of local, regional officials and I hope that this will happen very soon. What exactly is this about? In the process administration, the initiative of a proposal that enters the process and which is then processed and valorised by the administration services is actually in such a relationship as to be enemies, so it happens that at the end of the process, the initiative and the proposal remains almost nothing, or that the possibility of solving this problem which is being slowed down to that measure that ultimately, the solution to the problem becomes the problem itself. And the difference with the project management is that teams are created, interdisciplinary teams that work effectively, they share work among themselves. If, by heart, our project is to open a new primary school in September 2013 then there is also a man who deals with regulations, so is a man who deals with spatial planning, is also one who deals with all issues related to standards of education, technical standards and so on. This team can have up to 10 people and each of them knows exactly what to do with it, in which parts of the time and each of them can define the deadlines or points of control in which you will see if and who has done their part of the work. The one who is not able to replace, stimulate or punish him, the one who is can reward him, and the one who is stuck because of objective circumstances reports why this is happening and asks for help or intervention. This is how concrete things are solved, concrete projects. We do not have it, we have not yet introduced it into our system and there are rare cases of local self-government where people who have taken over the mayoral, mayor or mayoral functions have begun to act on this model and wherever this model is applied the results are seen quite well. Because it is very important for those people who are responsible for their duties to do what they promised in their term of office. With this process management that we have today, it's almost impossible. Because self-government, bureaucracy as such, is its nature that everything that comes from the side actually slows down so that it doesn't disrupt the rhythm by which it does its internal life. Of course, that's a hell of a lot to pay, and that's what taxpayers pay for. Therefore, only a brave government that can deal with this problem from all sides can count on it to be relatively simple and quickly solving social problems, i.e. transforming the state administration so that citizens who pay it are satisfied with its functioning and treat the state administration as their own and respect the institutions and the state as such. The proposal ahead of us, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, may be the first step along that path. In this regard, our club will support this proposal, but we warn that it itself will not solve any of the important issues of the necessary reforms of the state administration. That's why we're asking the government to come, and it's very soon to deal with these problems as one of the priority things. I am sure that unlike this government, this coming government will have a much higher level of responsibility and, of course, a higher level of courage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71741	Thank you. HDZ Club, Ms. Representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71742	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. Namely, as we have supported this law for the first time reading because these changes are going in the direction and aim to achieve an effective, professional, rational and quality state administration, and in order for it to be such, first of all, effective, professional, quality, competent civil servants. We are witnesses, and we all know it from our daily life that the Croatian government can propose a fantastic law so that we can bring it to the Croatian Parliament, but that the law will prove good or it will not prove good in full implementation and application in practice. State officials are those who are first in front of citizens when they apply this law and when they resolve important existential everyday issues of citizens. I would say that these amendments and additions are based on several strategic documents brought by this Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government, which is primarily a strategy for reforming the state administration in 2008 to 2011 which has a very important component of human potential management and a special strategy for the development of human potentials from 2010 to 2013. These documents are brought precisely with this goal which I have already talked about, which is to ensure professional, efficient and quality state administration and high levels of responsibility and integrity for public affairs. Therefore, these documents are determined and found to be based on merits, knowledge, skills, skills and advocacy of any individual who intends to hire or advance in the public service. Also in this law, as we have these days, a series of amendments and additions to the Law are also in line with the law on administrative procedure. So these main newspapers that are proposed by this Law that are thought and intending to achieve these objectives that we have spoken of are the following. So by the provisions of the law and by the first reading, we see some changes that are good and that I would commend here. In the part, at the very beginning of these amendments, where business confidence is mentioned, so technical assistance services, service providers outside the state administration system, it is added that this must be done with a previous assessment of safety risk and financial viability. Therefore, this is certainly good in view of the various types of business carried out by the authorities of the state administration, and where it is indeed doubtful whether certain service providers that are not in the system have not passed the verification and ultimately have no responsibility in this regard and certainly that it is the obligation of the state authority to carry out a cost-effectiveness assessment so that there may be no personal interest, or that there would be no conflict of interest if individual operators outside the state administration system were engaged irrationally. It is also what the practice has proved to be a lack of practice, so it is corrected by this law, that the employment provision only in accordance with the annual plan that it has received one exception for the possibility of performing the job uninterrupted, and that is except in cases outside that plan if it is to be employed for a specified period of time and in the event that it remains an empty and free place of work in the course of the year because one of the civil servants left the service. We also commend the amendment compared to the first proposal of this law, that it is found mandatory, therefore a better manipulation of the obligation to call for a public tender for trainees and whenever it is prescribed by law as well as an obligation, and no longer that this depends on the free assessment of the Head of State's authority's responsibilities that, prior to the opening of an internal or public tender, he must check the official at his disposal in the Government and that if these officials satisfy the verification of knowledge and skills, they must then be employed and not call for a public tender and bring someone outside. It is also good news that the central state body is given the possibility to cancel the tender in the event of an unlawful competition and that it is sanctioned by this Law that it is authorised to cancel such competition. A particularly good provision is that the amendment of the Constitution Committee is further improved, which is a provision to enable the acquisition of work experience in Article 19 of these amendments, to enable the acquisition of work experience and to pass a professional examination for persons without working experience who will be able to work for a year without establishing a working relationship with the basis of a special contract. The staff will be referred to by the Employment Office and will bear the costs of their work fees and through the amendment of the Constitution Committee, the issue expressed on the Legislative Committee is also resolved, which is the question which is the criterion of acceptance if the interest in performing this job is greater than the possibilities, i.e. from the number that the Employment Office will be able to carry out the selection, and this amendment said that the Government will regulate it by means of the admission criteria or by selecting persons to be addressed from the Employment Office. In my first reading, I warned of the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and the relationship between the Law and the provisions in this Law on Civil Servants, so that it is good to streamline because we often forget the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest applies exclusively to officials. However, it should not be forgotten that officials in the bodies, civil servants in the authorities of the state administration, deal with certain administrative matters and resolve major interests, very valuable, very large amounts of money. Therefore, they give or deny a right to someone and it is therefore good that the provisions on the prevention of conflicts of interest and in this law are sterilized in several provisions. We see that the more flexible are determined the possibility of sending a civil servant to work in another state body. This is particularly interesting given that more and more serious, more complex tasks are being put before the state administration, and more serious given the application of European law, since we do not have too many competent people with high knowledge and skills. It is good to open the possibility that they should be directed to another State body, if necessary, and even outside the State body, if necessary, to perform their tasks more effectively. I'd like to say something about changing the provisions on the evaluation of civil servants. So here's article 83 is changed in a very good way, and it is clearly determined that the purpose of assessing civil servants is to encourage civil servants to perform quality and effective official tasks. So, no, it's not the first purpose of punishing for a possible poor grade, but first of all, to pursue as high-quality a job as possible. So we also have through these provisions a provision that that civil servant who does not get a good and high rating is then referred to an additional education, to encourage him or her to become more successful by the next evaluation period. And a few words may have been made about a provision that last time, in the last debate, got somehow the greatest interest, which is a provision of extraordinary dismissal. In this proposal, amendments and additions have been amended and an article establishing serious injuries to official duties. I must say that it is good, that the serious injuries of official duty have three injuries involved the issue of reporting corruption by civil servants in a particular state body or how it is popularly spoken and protected by whistles, but also the protection against the abuse of that obligation and rights. So we are meant to be a serious violation, abuse of the obligation of a civil servant to report legitimate suspicions of corruption but also to violate the right to protect the anonymity of a civil servant who reports legitimate corruption and restricting or deny the rights established by this law to an officer who reports suspicion of corruption or abuse of that official to the responsible persons or authorities. So simply put to disabling the chican of such a civil servant. And now to return to the emergency notices. Therefore, when the head of the body and now it is good in relation to the first proposal no longer has a superior officer but exclusively the head of the body when it is able to cancel the service by means of an extraordinary dismissal in the event of a serious breach of the official duty and if this stems from the established facts. But there must be one qualitative circumstance, and that is what has been corrected, which is the philosophy corrected in relation to the first text, which is that, that such an injury has a characteristic of corruption, that it has significant material and immaterial damage to the state body, the legal person, the citizen or the public interest, to question the life and physical integrity of the citizens and to question the regular conduct of the business of the state body. I must say, in these first three cases, no warning is required. In the fourth case, it is necessary for the officer to be warned. And what's more important is to say that all those decisions about an extraordinary dismissal have the right to appeal. It is decided by the Committee on State Services. In the end, the court's protection is provided. Therefore, there is no concern that extraordinary cancellations will be made, that they will be pronounced because of the fact that the worker has all the legal protection guaranteed by this law. This is why, due to the introduction of additional discipline in the state service, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law for its quality and efficiency.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71743	Thank you. SDP representative club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71744	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed promoters and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Let us at first come to terms with the first reading by the Social Democratic Party of Croatia will support the adoption of this law because important changes have been made from the first reading to the final proposal for the Social Democrats club. There could still be a step, but a major change was made at an extraordinary dismissal. Therefore, the first reading left complete arbitration for the head of the state body, that is, the superior officer, and we said that if this does not change, we will not support this law. The important change in the proposal is precisely in this article. That's what I needed to say about why there's been a change and it's good that there's been a change. And it is good that the government has noticed that the Croatian state administration is still a feature of political addiction, political addiction is a fact that both Croatian citizens and representatives of the European Union are talking about. If it had remained an emergency notice, it would have made it entirely dependent on the head of state's administration's will. But there is still one absurdity that we must present before the face of the Croatian public. Turns out we've arranged everything, we've brought a strategy, we've passed the Law on the evaluation of officials and workers, we've passed the Law on Salary, we've brought the register on officials, we've brought it to the public, and then we recognize to the world that we have an administrative barrier, as a brake for the development of the Republic of Croatia. And look at the case, the government and its organisation set up a barrier to overcome it, so set up the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for investment projects, because it's braked by the state administration. And we have to keep that fact in mind when we talk about the state administration and all the laws we've passed, when we're talking about what's coming to us. So building a state administration as a whole requires solid targets, not for one mandate, not for one political option, but for that is the aim of society. Croatia has opted for the construction of state administration as a service of citizens and legal persons, but on the principles of the rule of law and the rule of law, and this aspect should assess the development of state administration and work, i.e. the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Parliament. What today marks the Croatian state administration? Status, state of assessment that the state administration does not contribute to the development, social economic development of the Republic of Croatia. If that fact stands, if that grade stands, then we need to see if this law is enough to change it. Yes, a step forward is. Yes, it is. We here already two clubs support that you can engage an external factor, so to speak, in some of the affairs of the state administration. Of course you can. But if we were to ask the government to give us all the state bodies, all the agencies and everything they're doing, I think we'd be very negatively surprised that the state administration was organized. So the article 61 of the draft law has been fired in the interest of building a system, not arbitration, and we support it. That's why we're changing our position on the bill. What else does the government have today? Besides the political dependence which fact is recognised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself? Average. We passed the Payments Act, but we didn't foresee a contract to start a working relationship and pay in the state administration. Why don't we have a contract, because we need people who can make breakthroughs in the state administration. We need people like that. Highly, highly educated. Unmotiveness, the next feature of the state administration is impediability. It's connected to each other, because the wages were actually used. And at the end of what's the fourth, fourth feature, it's the unsettled state records. For almost eight years, we have been publishing that land books and catastres will be arranged and harmonised. Who is this from the ruling party, from the government, who will sign that this is harmonised, and to abolish a legal provision where the state does not guarantee the truthfulness of that information? Without it, there is no, to say the least, effective investment in the Republic of Croatia. Without guarantee, that state records are true and that for these data there is no material responsibility of the state there is no investment in the Republic of Croatia, as we would like, and who we would like in the Republic of Croatia. So on the land books, the catastro, on stock and stockholder records, we have to take at least the first step. Then we'll know who the media owners are, who the bank owners are, etc., etc. Is the state administration organised, or is it elastic? One of my colleagues before me said that she should be organized for projects. Well, the agencies are scheduled to monitor the projects. Of course, when the state is a big investor, the state administration needs to be adapted to these investment projects. It's called the elasticity of the state administration. Are we satisfied with that? We did, because we're hoarding the agency to the agency, but it's for political reasons, not interesting and developmental reasons. So we need to look the truth in the eye, and say that steps are made by snails, that changes happen with a snail step. As for the conflict of interest, this was about conflict of interest. I do not accept that conflict of interest is only when it is defined by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. He exists outside the law. By law we have determined a group of people who will follow whether they are in conflict of interest, but for God there are civil servants and public servants who may be and are in conflict of interest, although they are not covered by the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Can't it exist? It is excluded here, namely officials cannot be members of administrative, supervisory, etc. bodies, in firms or legal persons performing administrative or inspection or other supervision. It makes perfect sense. But I asked the government how is it that the secretary of state, who runs that department in the ministry and manages those officials, because there's a subordination, is not about self-management of state ministries, so we chose them to make decisions and control them, and not just manage it, how is it that the Secretary of State can be a member of the board of directors of an important and it's a Sui Genis institution, while overseeing that institution? I think it's an article of the 35th when it talks about officials, but it has to be true for the state's chief of staff and state to say "officer." He cannot sit at the same time and make decisions on investment or the development of an institution or company, and then send his subordinate to control it. This conflict of interest is evident despite the fact that it is not listed in the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. That's the kind of case we've got. What else is there to do? In addition to the records, the technical and technological equipment of the administration should be equipped. It doesn't make sense that we can't have all the urban plans and other spatial plans in one place nowadays. As long as there are companies in Croatia that have all this, all land particles have it on them. So it's not about technology and the inability to do it. Why don't the citizens of the subdued Republic of Croatia come to the administration of the City of Zagreb and see how the particle stands in Istria or Dalmatia, what happens to it? Isn't that logical for today? So, we are talking about the state administration as a service and citizens and legal persons, and from that aspect we are assessing how successful it is or how unsuccessful it is, how much it contributes or does not contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia or to the legal security of citizens and their interests. Without it, there are no, as you would say, valid and proper grades. And perhaps another sentence, the efficiency of the state administration -- we are really working on how to say the rules needed to meet the criteria and conditions for EU entry. And that's good, we agree with that, of course, that's the goal. But these regulations must have echoes in the country and improve the lives of citizens in the country. In this regard, we have this proposal for a Law on Mind Change and Completion of the Law on Administrative Procedure, which must be simplified, and that is possible. There are many opportunities to simplify this procedure and that citizens do not have to wait 60 days or a month. Some things if the records offices can be resolved in 24 hours. Here, on behalf of the SDP, I made a point. So, it is a step forward, an important change has been made in relation to the proposal, the final proposal ensures that there is no arbitration towards the officials of the state administration and therefore we will support the adoption of this law, but there is still much, much work to be done on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71745	Thank you. It is next to the HSS club, the distinguished representative Zdravko Kelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71746	Dear Vice President, representatives of the Croatian government, colleagues and colleagues. It's in the interest of all of us to pass good laws, so that's the interest in passing this law. We believe that it is necessary to agree on possible supporting proposals in order to avoid unwanted situations when the law comes into force. During the first reading of the law, the HSS Club made observations and proposals on the text of the bill, but most of them were not adopted or the applicant referred to in point 6. We therefore expect the promoters to reconsider the comments of the HSS club since they are the result of consultations with people who are directly affected by this law and who know the functioning of the system. The final proposal for a law recognises the first reading, thus completing the statement of Article 1(5) which enables the provision of technical services to external service providers, but only exceptionally and with an ex ante assessment of safety risks. We positively assess this change, but we also believe that it is necessary to specify the authorities of the state administration in which, under exceptional circumstances, it is not possible to engage external service providers because there are extremely sensitive institutions within what is said that should be excluded. In addition, despite the loud remarks during the first reading of the law, we view the new proposed article 61, which enables professional training without establishing a working relationship for persons without working experience for the duration of the training period. Positively, however, it is somewhat unclear why Article 67(2) is deleted, which is prescribed that the Committee on State Service is obliged to decide on a complaint within 30 days of the date of its receipt. By erasing the said provision, the Committee shall be given the opportunity to decide on the application in undefined time. As for eradicating Articles 68 to 73, which regulates the intervention in the state service, the Proposer apparently found that these provisions were excessive and did not live in practice and obtained the expected results. The HSS Club agrees with the applicant in that section and believes that the disputed situation on the working environment must be resolved effectively, and the tranquilizers obviously did not have adequate instruments for this. The applicant retained the proposal that a state official who has been assessed once does not satisfy the suspension of the state service by force of the law on the date of enforcement of the evaluation solution. Despite many legitimate remarks on the account of civil servants, we believe that this provision can be misused in practice especially after the change of the political nomenclature. Most civil servants are evaluated by the best grades of their work, but experience points us to the need for caution as the result of such a provision of Article 88(2) may be that after the elections have been carried out, many officials are assessed negatively, but not because of their intricacies, unquality or unprofessionalness, but for some other reasons. Therefore, we believe that this formulation of Article 88(2) should nevertheless be amended. The applicant also retained the form of an extraordinary resignation for civil servants in such a way that the de facto superior officer can fire him within 2 months. The HSS Club is not opposed to the possibility of an extraordinary resignation for officials who, by their attitude to work, actually deserve it, but we believe that an extraordinary resignation cannot go to the encouragement of a senior official. Such a formulation may have caused abuse of this provision by many civil servants to lose their jobs if, by any chance, they do not agree with their superior. The possibility of being fired should be left exclusively to the head of the body and to the official court. The HSS Club saw this law as a positive shift and believes that its application in practice will make the state administration more professional, more efficient and more in the service of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71747	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Honorable Representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71748	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to a second reading. The application of the applicable Law on civil servants has identified certain problems whose resolution is proposed by these amendments and amendments, and the proposal also aligns the provisions of this law with the General Administrative Procedure Act. In my presentation, I would refer to the differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft of the law in relation to the draft law, and they came as a result of the evaluation of the observations and proposals presented in the debate both at the working bodies and at the plenary session. The most significant amendments contained in the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on civil servants are set out in the following. Finally, the proposal to amend and supplement the possibility of entrusting the work of the tenant, the external service providers to carry out the technical and other tasks of the subsistent. In this case, an ex ante risk assessment and the financial viability of such business confidence should be carried out. Before opening a public tender or an internal ad, all public authorities are required to check through the central authorities of the state administration whether there are available officers who meet the conditions for the schedule. If available to the Government, there are civil servants who meet the conditions for the schedule to be completed by the national authority for testing. Only in the event that no available official has satisfied the test results, the state body may initiate the filling procedure in another way. I believe that a major shift is contained in the fact that, for work experience on relevant jobs, the time of professional training is also included without the establishment of a working relationship in order to encourage and facilitate access to the authorities of the state administration. The provisions on the selection of candidates in the tender procedure and internal advertising based on the results of the examination of knowledge, skills, skills and results of the work so far are complemented by the provision of a psychological evaluation of candidates if psychological testing has been carried out. The law limits the number of candidates for admission to the state service in such a way that the choice of candidates for admission to the state service is made between a maximum of 10 candidates who have achieved the best results in the test and interview conducted and the obligation of a reasoned election is established. It is important to point out that the provision relating to the transfer of staff where necessary of the service if the transfer is carried out in a lower position of work, protects the material rights of the staff member in such a way as to ensure that the official has the right to pay for the post from which he is transferred if it is more favourable for him, provided that in the last two years he has been assessed as exceptional and appropriate. The procedure for determining the responsibility of the trade union commissioner for the violation of official duties cannot be initiated without the consent of the trade union, but it is also established that the performance of the trade union activity must not affect the orderly conduct of the business and may not be a reason for non-compliance with the rules, orders and the like. A provision has been laid down to ensure that the members of the Senior Official Court are judges because it is a second-degree body which decides on serious injuries to official duty, thereby guaranteeing the participation of judges in the council of independence, professionalism and expertise. Furthermore, the provisions on the exceptional dismissal are specified so that an exceptional resignation can be given if it is found that the official has committed a particularly serious violation of the official duty without prior written warning, which has the character of corruption, results in significant material or immaterial damage to the national body, legal person or citizen or the protection of the public interest, or which calls into question the life and physical integrity of the citizens. While a written warning with the possibility of manifesting and removing incorrectness should be sent to bring regular enforcement of the tasks of the state authority prior to the emergency cancellation. I believe that the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on civil servants has significantly improved its provisions, that the most important objections and proposals from the debate have been taken into account, so I will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as amendments to the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71749	Thank you. It is time for the honourable representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71750	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. In the second reading of the Amendments and Supplements Act, the Law on civil servants, which is further regulated in relation to the first reading, is presented. It was accepted, as we have already heard most of the remarks or proposals made at the meetings of the parliamentary working bodies as well as at the plenary session, and that is also important in agreement with the unions of civil servants and subsistence, it has been specified and agreed on most of the disputed provisions contained in the first reading of this law. So, given these facts, I will also point out immediately and say that I will support the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions to this law, which means the Law on Civil Servants. I will repeat that these amendments and amendments to the law are based on several strategic documents that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted over the past few years. First of all, this is the State Administration Reform Strategy for the period 2008 to 2011, which is the Human Resources Development Strategy and the April 2010 Economic Recovery Programme. A number of issues related to the regulation and exercise of rights, obligations and responsibilities of civil servants and subsistences as well as compliance with other laws are foreseen in the light of these strategic objectives set out in this law. This refers first and foremost to compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act in such a way as to amend, delete or supplement certain provisions of the procedural nature of this law. I also consider important amendments and additions to this law relating to the evaluation of civil servants by which the provisions are definitely improving the assessment system itself so that it would be an incentive for better quality work and a basis for rewarding employees according to merits, knowledge, skills and skills in the work. This law also more precisely regulates the impact of the assessment on the position of a civil servant. First of all, the impact of bad grades is being given. Certain proposed decisions of this law liberalise the conditions for the termination of the employee's employment relationship and, above all, refer to the introduction of an extraordinary dismissal institute which I consider to be much more precise and clear in relation to the first-reading solution, thus reducing the impact of a free discretionary assessment, which is good because it prevents or reduces to a minimum the possible or possible self-will of the body leader. So there is also the difference between the first and this reading, the second reading that lies ahead. So, I will repeat once again that I support the adoption of this law as well as, of course, amendments to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, the political system and the Committee on Legislatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71751	Thank you. And distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71752	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So the aim of all reforms and amendments to the Law on civil servants is very simple. He'd be on the trail of how something that's already sucked out a phrase to get to a small effective administration. The administration doesn't have to be small, but we agree that it has to be effective, so as many people as it takes. In short, that all items that come before civil servants must be settled within the legal time limit, that the good ones can prosper, build their careers in the administration, and that the system is fit and qualified to get rid of those who are not up to it. So it's a very simple task, and that's a simple task, I'm also at first reading, and I'm going to read the excerpt from Maria Teresa's order on the conduct of civil servants who are even more current than when it's written. Here's another one, there's only eight lines and it's talking about how civil servants have to behave. So, it was betrayed not by the Queen though, but by Maria Teresa the Empress, but things are very stately and democratic. Every day, the only days of the week will come to the schoolhouses at seven o'clock diligently in the office and be there until 15 o'clock in the afternoon. Every time, and longer if the demand is required, I have worked hard and done my job exactly, and what is imposed on him, and for that, and for the removal that he does not mind or prevents himself from talking, talking in vain, not mumbling, not insinuating or arguing, not playing, not drinking, not staying in the office with each other or with outsiders, so that they are sober and moderate, loving peace and harmony, that they rule in all things decently and handsomely. Extraordinary people not to smoke hugs and closed rooms, offices and finally honor and honesty of the aforementioned council and offices to try to keep and maintain undefiled. So, here are the elements not only of working hours from 7 hours to 15 hours, which is today office time, 8 to 16, but that cannot be left service unless the items and departures have been solved. At that time, it was not known about that famous one, come tomorrow, and we are long gone, but come next year. Now and the government if you would and would like to do something here is the question of how much she can do, how much she can do on this case to resolve the reform of the administration that is a prerequisite for judicial reform because everything is back on track and on the judiciary itself when she has allowed this army, the army of civil servants and tenants, and that poorly paid army, when she has allowed that the system cannot be solved by the bad ones without protecting the good ones. On the contrary, we have often witnessed that those who pointed to actions that were not allowed to be carried out at the Disciplinary Court, that they were seen something, perhaps some of the failures that really existed, but that would have been negligible if they had not warned of much more important things. Because from the beginning it went wrong, from the beginning it knew that the party card was a license to enter the state service, and that someone could eventually do the job. And indeed, the state can't function without good employees. That the mirror, how the state administration works is essentially what the state really is. State officials are really a mirror of the arrangement of one system. And I'll point out again, one Austria doesn't know what the silence of the administration is. In our case, it is a miracle if the case is resolved within the time limit, however, if it is resolved within the deadline, it raises serious doubt as to why it is solved within the time limit. So we have one absurd and paradox. Why can the subject not be solved within 15 days, or 30 days, that are legal deadlines? And so what we see in the law that it wasn't good so far was why some things don't make sense. This may be best seen in the provision of Article 48 that a serious violation of the official duty is non-execution, unconsciously and unjustly or unfairly or recklessly carrying out official duties, therefore more lastingly... execution. [[You don't understand.]] So the question arises how many civil servants have the right not to carry out their duties, to unwittingly execute them, to carry out them unfairly, or to carry out them recklessly. How much of a right is there, so it's left now to solve whether someone else's government official is being resented or not. It is still an too wide standard that requires, that simply imposes some kind of voluntary interpretation. If so, and many of these provisions are just a little specific, but they are the source, the source of one treatment of civil servants, a volunteer and ultimately leads to the behaviour of a civil servant that it doesn't have to be, that he doesn't have to perform tasks neatly, but certainly he doesn't blame anyone. Because if he resents anyone by pointing out some irregularities, then his file will open up and he'll start scratching on his case files. And that's not good. You can never come to a green branch like that. If someone left out a single item and didn't solve it within the time limit, he has to subscribe a report to his superior, which is why it happened. Unfortunately, though, we don't see it here. It is also interesting to note that point 8 of this Article 48, Article 99, which is amended and is completely unclear, which says that serious violation of the official duty and abuse of the obligation of a civil servant to report a legitimate suspicion of corruption. This would result in him not making a serious breach of duty unless he reported a reasonable suspicion of corruption, but rather if he misused his obligation as a civil servant to say that he was malicious, he acted in an idolatrous manner, i.e. Someone was deliberately accusing me of agreeing in time, so when all eyes are on corruption, especially our public opinion, and the fight against corruption that any abuse and play with it should be severely punished. For if anyone warns, or shows, and prophesys, and falsely purposely does so, it dilutes things. And it really should be severely punished. But ask such a question of abuse that, and we see in that fundamental law that the Labour Act, where it's talking about the protection of whistles, where we went to protect whistles and their position got worse. Because there, every official will be punished unless it is proved in court that what he suspected is not a criminal offence, or he did not commit such a crime. Well, that's ridiculous! Because it's enough that he didn't act in an evil way and that he justifiably pointed to suspicion. Well, neither does the State's Attorney's office, when he's been persecuting everything, he's got a whole instrumentation of his state apparatus at his disposal that he's been supplying evidence. So the same acquittal is not considered his abuse. Therefore, it is necessary to protect all people from malicious display, because there are no worse things than especially in the time of fighting corruption to oppose an innocent man. It then collapses and niavers and in some way relativizes and mocks all the fight against corruption. And I repeat that should be severely punished. But to protect the maximum number of people who report in good faith, which means that evil faith, or evidence of evil faith, is on the one who wants to process it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71753	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Nada Čavlović Smiljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71754	Well, colleague Antičević, you said well, the state of the state service has seen the situation in our country, and since the state of Croatia is the state of affairs, I would simply say that it can't, of course, be a better state of state service. I must say that over the past seven years, in the last seven years, the HDZ has led this country to increase the state apparatus, that a large number of civil servants have been admitted but has not increased efficiency in solving the cases of these civil servants. And why is that? Well, it's so primarily because the candidates, or people who were admitted to the state service, must first be politically similar, and it doesn't matter if they're professional. Today in Croatia, you have key positions in the civil service of officials, office heads, supervisors who are placed exclusively in political likeness without being able to do their job at all. So tell me in which way they can do their job effectively and up-to-date, and I also think it is a special newspaper that was being introduced in Croatia. I was a civil servant for 22 years, so I know the state of the state. I know how it used to be. I know what it's like now. It happened, meaning that practicers who have always received themselves for a certain period of time, for example, high professional preparation for 18 months, have been received indefinitely over the last few years. So, the traineeship simply automatically grew into a working relationship to indefinitely. It was never in the Civil Service Act. Today it is in Croatia, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71755	Thank you. Still for your country to say it's a chaotic state. That's what one MP says. No comment. Let's go Secretary of State, Reverend Pavle Matičić, at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71756	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants and the support you gave to this bill. In the reasons for the adoption of this law, we have also set some goals in terms of modernising this official system. And I think this bill is still going towards modernising this system, the official system. At the same time, the modernisation of this official system is also part of the modernisation of the entire state administration and this is not the only law that regulates or contributes to the modernisation of the state administration system. We now have, we in the Government and you here in the Parliament many laws that we comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act. In some ways, many realize that this is primarily a technical alignment with the General Administrative Procedure Act, which would not be quite so understood. That's why, first of all, when we look at the individual institutes that we're coordinating, I'm only going to say one example. Under the old Law on General Administrative Procedure, the head of the body was authorised to take action and to resolve administrative matters. He could have authorized an individual official to take action and to solve administrative matters. The new General Administrative Procedure Act has turned the whole thing upside down. He gave authority to an officer who was assigned to the workplace that he was authorized to handle administrative matters. It's a good example of depoliticalism. When we talk about depoliticisation, then we think in a narrow sense of politics, and politicization, but this example just shows that so far, if it was decided by the minister, it could always say that there are policy elements there. Now the new law has changed that. So it's not just technical alignment with the Law on Administrative Procedure whether it's finally done or done, or some other stuff. At the same time, it is the fact that certain laws do not regulate issues governed by this law, meaning that the General Administrative Procedure Act is not subject to a subsidiary, but that it applies and that only certain other institutes are prescribed by law. That is why this observation by the HNS Club, the HSS, in that sense, that we have not accepted the comments, when we say that we have deleted that the Committee on State Service is obliged to make a decision within 30 days. It is not deleted so that the Committee can now pass this within 3 months, but because it is governed by the General Administrative Procedure Act, so it should not even be written in special laws, because then we have a lot of procedural provisions on a particular law in that sense, because the fact law, therefore, is in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act just that it does not contain those institutes that already exist in the law. So we think that total, means all of these other laws that we're making right now, that all of this is still one clue to the modernisation of the state administration system, and it will certainly contribute to these amendments and additions to the Civil Service Act, so thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71757	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71758	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 719, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 100 votes for, 3 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71759	We now move to point 16, that is - - The final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Law on the Protection of Industrial Property Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 764 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant, the applicant's representative, wish to further explain the proposal? Dear Ivan Bubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71760	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the central authorities of the state administration are obliged to review the procedures and to draw up proposals for amendments and additions of the Law from administrative areas, in the course of their work, to bring them in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act within 6 months. Thus, compliance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act is necessary in order to comply with the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights. A law on representation in the field of industrial property rights, applicable from 1 August 2005, as well as a rule on expert examinations for authorised representatives in the field of intellectual property rights, which entered into force on 14 February 2006, with the determination of basic concepts, also laid down the procedure for enrolment in the register of authorised representatives headed by the State Intellectual Property Office, and other procedures relating to entries in that register. The proposed law shall be adopted in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, primarily by its provision under which the party is to be warned in the event of a lack of support, and shall leave it with a deadline in which it will be removed. To implement the law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, it is proposed to enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the "National Journal". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71761	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71762	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed promoters, ladies and gentlemen. For the first time in the Republic of Croatia, the law on representation in the area of industrial property rights, which has been applied since 1 August 2005, provides for the registration procedure in the register of authorised representatives run by the State Intellectual Property Office, and other procedures relating to entries in that register. In the process of recognising industrial property rights, foreign natural and legal persons must necessarily be represented by authorised representatives, while for domestic and natural and legal persons, this possibility is optional. The proposed law is amended in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, primarily its provision applying to all administrative matters, and certain issues of administrative procedure can be regulated by law and otherwise, if this is not contrary to the basic provisions and purpose of that law, and it is necessary to act in certain administrative areas. Thus, the Law on representation in the area of industrial property rights was to be brought into line with the provision of the General Administrative Procedure Act, under which, in the event of a lack of support, the party should be alerted to such a lack, leave it with a deadline within which it will be removed, and carry out the temporological alignment with it. This harmonisation is also necessary in order to comply with the criteria for closing chapters 23 of the judiciary and fundamental rights, and the Croatian Democratic Community club supports this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on industrial property rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71763	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU, the esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. It's Ovoltie.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71764	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the motionary. The Croatian People's Party, and the Croatian Party of Retired People's Party, will also accept and support this proposal to amend and supplement the law, quite understandablely that the questions of the register are defined in this way, but what even amazes us in some way, that only the pressure from the European Commission has been able to determine how many legal regulations are in place, and in some cases we will see which have been passed even at the time of the adoption of the law which regulated the issue of the general administrative procedure, so how far the administrative procedure was completely different from the procedure defined by the General Administrative Procedure Act. So it is obvious that our practice, even in this law, was such that the administrative procedures had 10 or 12 different persons and different practices and that we needed someone on the sidelines to tell us that this situation was absolutely unsustainable. In some ways it's our shame, but it's good that the government saw that, but unfortunately in the finale of this story about Chapter 23. This once again proves that it is good that we have engaged in this big business, in the business of negotiating EU accession, and that in this negotiating process we have learned a lot, not only how those who are smarter than us work but how bad we have been in some things, how bad we have embedded in our laws, and how we really need to make the most of our efforts to finally deprive ourselves of this ballast past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71765	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71766	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on representation in the area of industrial property rights, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 764, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on representation in the area of industrial property rights. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 105 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71767	Moving to point 17. - Final proposal of the Act on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconducts, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 765 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. I see that the proposer's representative wishes to make an additional explanation of the proposal, so I give my word to the esteemed Ivan Bubic State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71768	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. The area of protection of topography of semi-conductive products is governed by the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products, applicable from 1 January 2004, with amendments which entered into force on 31 August 2007 and 17 March 2009, and by the Regulation on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products, which entered into force on 1 June 2004, with amendments which entered into force on 1 June 2008. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – The right of intellectual property was closed in 19.12.2008 at the meeting of the Intergovernmental Convention on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union at ministerial level, provided that the Republic of Croatia will monitor all changes to the acquis in this area on an up-to-date basis. The existing Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products contains the definition of the basic concepts of the provisions governing the registration of topography and other procedures relating to the registration of topography which are within the jurisdiction of the State Intellectual Property Office. On 27 March 2009, the Law on General Administrative Procedure was adopted, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products was drawn up in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which the central authorities of the State Administration are obliged to draw up proposals for amending and supplementing the laws of the administrative areas within their scope within 6 months in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act. This is necessary in order to meet the criteria for closing Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental rights. The proposed Act amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products is to be adopted in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act and in particular with its provisions on the scope. In order to implement the proposed law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, it is proposed that the law enter into force after it has been published in the National Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71769	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The club, we have one, distinguished HNS-HSU, distinguished representative Zlatko Koračević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71770	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In a set of these express amendments to the law or alignment with the Law on Administrative Procedure by reading these bill proposals and not just this one and this one and those who come to us, one of the key questions is being asked, and that's what we've been doing so far? Because the new Administrative Procedure Act has been in force since 01.01.2010. Due to non-compliance, it is almost certainly difficult at the moment to expect from the proposing representatives, not only the economy ministry representative and all others, because almost every ministry is obliged to comply with some of its legal laws with the General Administrative Procedure, which has been in force since 01.01.2010. Almost certain that there were specific problems in that time, that in that time simply many have come to an insecure problem almost certain. In particular, when I talk about this law, the fact is that it has been applied since 2004, it has experienced 2 amendments in 2007 and 2009. One of the few legal proposals that protect intellectual property, one of the few that is good in any case and because of the very intensity of this law should be repeated because I think that not only in the topography of semiconductor products, yes, in many other segments, there is certainly a need to protect intellectual property by means of a legal solution. However, my question is and the question of us at the HNS-HSU club under which law has the Bureau conducted the protection procedure? We have a law that we are harmonising with the General Administrative Procedure Act with today's amendments. The General Administrative Procedure Act shall apply from 01.01.2010. It's 2011 today. So, within a year or slightly more than a year, the competent authority carrying out the protection procedure and everything related to the intellectual property protection process had no legal basis, or had. If they did, then we'll change this. If it's just a form, let's just say it's just a form, but content is certainly not a form. Maybe it's in this law, the question of what it's like in the other laws that harmonize. Namely, what we want to warn HNS and HSU about and many clubs have warned through their discussions. What's waiting for you? Do we really have to work everything out a minute before 12? Is it everything? Just the fact that intellectual property is protected in particular in this proposal of the Law on the Design of Semiconducts as an integral part of electronic devices, the fact itself with these amendments to the law is realized and the possibility and the right to preserve and preserve this intellectual property, we in the HNS Club, the HSU will support this bill, but the question remains which procedure did the Institute carry out the protection procedure if these two laws are not harmonised? And that the fact itself is getting an even stronger questionnaire, almost at the same time the amendments to this Law on the Protection of Topographic Radiators were adopted, almost at the same time the debate on the new Administrative Procedure Act in 2009, almost at the same time proven that in our national administration, in particular in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing, and the final ones who are damaged pay. I hope so, and I want to believe that intellectual property holders were not damaged in 2010 because of non-compliance. And in the end, once again, the HNS and HSU will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71771	Thank you. Final review on behalf of the applicant State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, esteemed Ivan Bubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71772	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliamentarian Mr. Korakevic and everyone else, I would just like to give you a brief answer that the change does not apply to what has been decided so far, this amendment is resolved by a solution. Therefore, nothing substitial or substantive is changed but is only in line with the Administrative Procedure Act. I think it's enough and the right explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71773	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71774	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconducts, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 765, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 103 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71775	We move to point 21 because for these 18th, 19th and 20th we have no conditions, which is - The final draft law amending the State Inspectorate Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 773 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivan Bubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71776	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. In order to comply with criterion 6, the prevention of corruption in Chapter 23-Justice and the fundamental rights of the central authorities of the state administration should comply with specific laws with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, so another similar change like these so far. In particular, the General Administrative Procedure Act Article 3 provides that this law is applicable in all administrative matters, only certain issues of administrative procedure can be resolved differently if it is necessary to act in certain administrative areas and if it is not contrary to the provisions and the purpose of the Administrative Procedure Act. As the General Administrative Procedure Act offers satisfactory solutions for the conduct of the inspectors in the proposal of this Act with the Administrative Procedure Act, the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act are in line with the provisions of the Act of the State Inspectorate, which have provided for a different treatment, and concerns the hearing of a minor, the conduct of representations and complaints, the types of acts which decide on the costs of the inspection procedure, the time limit for the adoption of a solution, the time limit for the application and the time limit for the delivery of an appeal for the resolution, the execution of an inspection solution, the execution of non-financial obligations by the payment of the offence, the statement of the appeal on an oral solution in a manner that they are deleted in the Law in the State Inspectorate and the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act apply. In addition, it is proposed to delete the provisions on administrative measures taken by pressure mining and pressure equipment inspectors which are now laid down in the Mining Act and in the Law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessments of Article 60 concerning the subsidiary application of the Law on Administrative Procedure of Article 49 of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 298, 30.10.2014, p. 1). I propose the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71777	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I see you don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Milivo Škvortz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71778	Dear Vice-President, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs. Before us is the Proposal for a Law amending the State Inspectorate Act with the Final Proposal for a Law. It is a proposal for a law amending the State Inspectorate Act to be adopted in order to bring the State Inspectorate Act in line with the applicable General Administrative Procedure Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2010. This is only one in a series of laws that comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act. This will address the current problems of the new ZUP's relationship with specific laws. On the one hand, the special law has an advantage over the general law, while on the other hand the newer law has an advantage over older laws. Following these harmonisations, the new General Administrative Procedure Act should respond to the expectations of all those who face daily resolutions of their concrete requirements in practice, which are that the resolution process is swift, economical and based on the law. This harmonisation is important for a number of other reasons, primarily because of the important activity carried out by the State Inspectorate, which is all we know about inspection tasks relating to the supervision and implementation of regulations in trade and services, work and protection at work, electricity, mining, collection and payment of tourist taxes, catering and provision of services in tourism. According to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Inspectorate, we see that a large part of the harmonisation has been implemented by deleting certain provisions which are either contrary to the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act or are simply regulated by the ZUP, so it is unnecessary and excessive that the same provisions are contained in a specific law. There is no need to explain what the provisions are because we have already spoken in them in the debate on the ZUP, and they refer to the questions mentioned by the applicant, I will only repeat them: the hearing of a young person, the play and the complaint, the types of acts which decide on the costs of the inspection procedure, the deadline for the adoption of a solution, the time limit for the appeal and the deadline for the delivery of the complaint to a solution, the execution of the inspection solution, the execution of monetary obligations on the payment of fines, the obligation of the inspector to determine the property benefit achieved by the offence and the criminal act and the declaration of the appeal of the oral solution. New conditions for a mining inspector have been laid down. The same thing was done for all the other inspectors at the State Inspectorate. This is a special condition from at least one year of working experience in the profession and passed a state expert exam for a mining inspector instead of the previous four years of working experience in the profession, of which at least two years in the affairs of inspectorates and following a state expert examination. This will certainly make it easier to meet the overall working conditions of a mining inspector. The implementation of this law does not require specific resources from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. What, in spite of all of this, justifies the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, is also the fulfilment before the 6-month deadline mentioned, but also the obligation to comply with the closing criteria for us to be able to comply with the important chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71779	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, HSU's esteemed representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71780	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Proposer's representative. Here is another law, therefore, in a series that has come under the criticism of the European Commission that there are a whole series of rules in which regulated issues actually fall under the general administrative procedure, which we have regulated by different laws in different ways so far. It is good, therefore, that we will unify these amendments and additions to the general administrative procedure, and that which is an open question, are we really going to do as my colleague said before me, make this procedure quick, economical and based on the law. In fact, it should have been quick, economical and based on the law by now, but practice shows that it has often been played and ridiculed. Here's the last case of the one in which it took ten days to wait for the inspection in "The Evening List." Now it takes 10 days to wait for that inspection to be found. Generally, the effectiveness of the work of the State Inspectorate in a wide range of cases is extremely questionable. When I say that, I also mention a case of illegal construction, otherwise an illegally built sawmill in Kusanca. I know that construction inspection under this, but this problem was also a question of a whole series of other inspection cases or inspection services such as environmental protection, such as some others. So there are solutions to closing and destroying back in 2007, nothing has been done until today. There are a number of other examples that suggest that state inspectors sometimes take their decisions throughout the process or make it difficult to make a decision in order not to object to any of the local or regional political powers, that is, in the follow-up process, to get out of the whole problem and to definitely do too few brave people who have really stood up for the job, and yet unfortunately, the dominant number of people who understand this job is quite flexible, that is to say, can and should not be resented first of all. As long as it is, as long as the state's attorneys are complaining to us formally or informally that state inspectors on the ground are giving them a whole series of problems and distractions in their own business, that they don't get the kind of transport they need to care about in the end of the illegality, as long as there's no order being introduced in the State Inspectorate, we can change and supplement this regulation to do all kinds of equilibristics and to unify the administrative procedure, but I'm afraid that's not gonna help us. Only hope remains that those who receive solutions, or acts of the State Inspectorate itself, that such unification of the procedure will be treated equally as others in other administrative procedures, i.e. that at least technically the procedure in their case will be faster and more effective. Whether he'll be just and based on the law, we'll see about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71781	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71782	Honorable Vice President, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. The General Administrative Procedure Act entered into force on 1 January 2010, and the General Administrative Procedure Act adopted in 1991 ceased to apply. And '96. A year. The application of the General Administrative Procedure Act, as well as the earlier law, provided for the possibility that certain issues of the procedure for certain administrative areas could be regulated by a special law other than those governed by this law. In the provisions of Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the European Parliament and the Council are to be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union and in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on administrative procedure is prescribed that this law applies to all administrative matters. Only certain issues of administrative procedure can be settled differently if this is necessary in certain administrative areas, and if this is not contrary to the provisions and purpose of this law. The draft final proposal for the General Administrative Procedure Act provided for the second reading that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would propose to coordinate specific administrative procedures with the provisions of this Act no later than 6 months from the date of its entry into force. By accepting the amendments to the proposal for such a decision, there was no explicit legal regulation for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do so on the grounds that such regulation is unnecessary by law, and given the permanent possibility and obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do so without further legal normation, the Government is obliged to do so. The adoption of the amendment has shown its justification for this adoption of the proposed amendment. This is because the obligation to review the administrative and procedural rules of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has laid down in two previously adopted documents in the document of origin and the principles for the modernisation of the general administrative procedure in Croatia, and the document for the drafting of the new Law on the General Administrative Procedure of the Republic of Croatia. On 6 October 2010, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded on the road towards the implementation of these documents that the central authorities of the State Administration are obliged to draw up a proposal to amend and supplement the laws in the administrative areas within a defined section to comply with the provisions of the ZUP no later than six months after the conclusion was reached. As of 2 December 2010, the Act of the Ministry of Administration stated that a project to implement the new General Administrative Procedure Act was implemented under the bilateral assistance programme of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Denmark support for the development of public sector capacities and recommended by individual experts for further action as a basis for harmonising specific administrative procedures with the provisions of the applicable law. The analysis carried out the categorisation of relevant provisions of specific laws and, in cooperation with the experts of the Ministry of Administration, established that there are certain categories of derogations from the rules of the general administrative procedure prescribed by the ZUP. It is in fact the following categories which refer to provisions which do not comply with the basic provisions of the ZUP provision against the purpose of the ZUP, different treatment than provided for by the ZUP. The provision regulates the procedure in the same way as the ZUP or is prescribed by the ZUP. The provision empowers the Authority of the State Administration to regulate procedural matters by sublaw. The law harmonizes with the rules of the general administrative procedure on hearings of a minor, presentation and complaint, the type of act which decides on the cost of the inspection procedure, the time limit for the adoption of a solution, the time limit for the appeal and the time limit for the delivery of an appeal, the execution of an inspection solution, the execution of monetary obligations, the payment of fines, the obligation of an inspector to determine the property benefit and the declaration of the appeal of an oral solution. In addition, it is proposed to delete from the law the provisions of Article 60 which are governed by the Mining Act and the Law on Technical Requirements for... the assessment of compliance and concerns administrative measures taken by mining inspectors, pressure-pressure equipment inspectors on the definition of property benefit achieved by criminal and criminal acts in accordance with the Act on the seizing of property benefit proceedings carried out by criminal act and offence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As well as on the expert preparation of mining inspectors, Article 23 and the subsidiary application of the General Administrative Procedure Act of Article 49 shall apply. From all of this, we believe that it will greatly contribute to better application of both the current regulations and the more successful actions of the inspectorates. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71783	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. We have one application. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar. He's losing his right to debate. I'm closing the debate. And we'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. That's what we're done with today's work. And tomorrow we'll continue with point 11. – Final draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 735. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-04-13-0.u71784	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the State Inspectorate Act, the Emergency Procedure, P.Z. No. 773, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the State Inspectorate Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill was adopted by most votes, 103 votes for, 2 abstentions and nothing against.
