ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80447	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, for letting me say a few words about the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Ladies and gentlemen, there is currently a large investment activity in Croatia's ports in the Republic of Croatia. The 580m-euro projects are currently being implemented in Croatian ports, so we can freely say that such investment activity has not been in the Republic of Croatia in the last few decades. The port of Rijeka extends the container terminal, a new ferry port of Gazenica is being built in the port of Zadar, a new gat is being built in Sibenik for the needs of cruisers, etc. Gat Vrulje, in the port of Šibenik, prepares documentation for the construction of external connections, the container terminal is completed in the port of Ploče and the construction begins next month on the decommissioned cargo terminal, and in Dubrovnik we expect for a 10-day completion of the works on so-called. The coast of Batakovina. Compared to the port of Ploce, a contract was signed between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Port Authority of Ploče for the construction of the new, or the only container terminal and the decommissioned cargo terminal. The loan is worth 54m euros. The container terminal is finished and is already in use. However, during the implementation of this project, there was a need to expand the projected cargo terminal since there was an increase in transport in the port of Ploče, and since new jobs have occurred, i.e. the possibility of a burden-to-load, scattered cargo, coal from the far east for the needs of Italian thermal power plants. Since there are not enough gauze in the Italian ports, the cargo would be unloaded from large ships in the port of Ploče and crossing smaller ships for Italian ports. The project is already under way, but the implementation of this new project by extending the cargo terminal to the port of Ploče, which is the one the largest ships could agree to. Negotiations with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development are over. It's a loan granted under the terms of the World Bank, a payment deadline of 23 years, a 12-year start. I say, the work would have started in a few days. They would be completed in 2014 and 2015. And we absolutely believe in the success of this project, and given the continued growth of traffic in the port of Ploče and the good business of the company Luka Ploče. Please support this bill in order to achieve one of the biggest investments in the port of Ploče. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80448	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, Mr. Representative Stipe Gabrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80449	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links of the Croatian Parliament at the 66th session held on 26 October 2011 discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the additional financing of the "Integration of Trade and Transport Project" in Luka Ploče, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 896, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Croatian Act of 13 October 2011. The Committee has discussed the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Additional Financing of the "Integration of Trade and Transport Project" in Luka Ploče as the home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening statement was given by a proposing representative who said this law confirms the Treaty on the Guarantee between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the additional financing of the "Integration of Trade and Transport" project in Luc Ploče to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. A way to settle financial commitments that may arise for the Republic of Croatia as guarantees and a binding share of the Republic of Croatia in financing during the implementation of the project is prescribed. It is also pointed out that the Port Authority has been committed as a borrower on a regular basis and fully fulfil all financial obligations towards the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Without discussion, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the additional financing of the "Integration of Trade and Transport Project" in Luc Ploče in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80450	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80451	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal for a law on the confirmation of a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for additional financing of the project Integration of Trade and Transport at the port of Ploče, which is extremely important for the port of Ploče and for the city of Ploče and for Dubrovnik-Neretva County and for the Republic of Croatia and for the countries in the region with which the Republic of Croatia borders, which rely on the port of Ploče. The fact is that for many years the Republic of Croatia has been financing a project of container terminals and terminals for... cargo at the port of Ploče, as Mr. Secretary of State pointed out and that in fact the need for these projects to be expanded has been shown. And that is why today we have before us a bill to confirm a 50m-euro guarantee contract just to increase capacity and finance insufficient capital for a burden-growing terminal that needs to be built under the project and financing for a container terminal that is already built under the project and of course is about increasing capacity. As Mr. Secretary of State has already pointed out, the fact is that in the meantime, the need to spread the burdens of concrete coal shifts from larger ships to smaller ones to transport to Italy for the purposes of the thermal power plants there, which, due to the depth of the gas on the plane side of the coast, are actually impossible to work with larger ships, so that the port of Ploche serves as a transit port for the port of transit for the cargo. In this sense, of course, it is a great potential and a great opportunity for the port of Ploče itself because this fact will make the port of Ploče more income than was planned with the very initial version of the project and, of course, we will support absolutely this bill because it absolutely means new work and new development, means a new chance for the port of Ploče. The port of Ploče is one of those entities that managed to survive all the transition and turbulence times of the port of Ploče, the company that made a huge contribution to the defence of Croatia from 1991 to 95 when the war operations lasted, at these times the port of Ploče managed to retain its employees without any great help, managed to perform those functions which at that time were of course significantly smaller scale and, of course, had succeeded in bringing an end to a difficult period, and today there was a great period ahead of them. That a great period before them shows enough the fact that Luka Ploče was a few weeks ago and was recapitalised thanks to the Croatian government's decisions absolutely welcomed by young shareholders, the employees of the harbor board above all who had given the opportunity to participate with an even greater share in the ownership of this significant company, so the port of Ploče, which is now mostly owned by small shareholders, thanks to the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, under favourable conditions, gave employees the possibility of recapitalisation. Of course, it was welcomed by everyone who deals with this job and was welcomed by the citizens of Ploč and the citizens of the county because we received a strong privatised company that will certainly in the future be a very strong factor of development in the Republic of Croatia. When I talked about it being important for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, it's important because it employs a large number of employees, over 1,000 people are employed at the port of Ploce. What's important is that through her work she binds and other activities, binds other economic entities so that she means the generator of development not only of the board but of all... entities. When I said that it is important for us neighbouring countries, then it should be said that the true meaning of the port of Ploče will be given to the moment when the VC corridor is built when all corridors that go in these directions are important for the Republic of Croatia, so the Adriatic-Ionian and the VC corridor are built because in fact, we will have the largest intersection in Europe as far as traffic routes are concerned, and all of these, intersections end or begin from the port of Ploče which will be well connected, already today, this link has been established and will be completed by car road to Ploč by the following year, direct communication towards the port itself, and in that sense it becomes the starting point for all the burdens that will be brought into the port of Ploče, whether to the containers of any system of the scattered cargo. So it's important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's really important that all the mineral wealth is actually what was needed for factories in Mostar and other factories has actually been delivered through the port of Ploče but it's also important tomorrow for export and in this sense it becomes a very important company for the economy of our neighbouring countries but, of course, most of all, it will benefit employees, most of all will benefit those who work and, of course, the environment in which it happens. The very fact that the corridor of the VC continues towards the eastern part of Croatia to pass through Osijek and end in Hungary's roads, that it connects to the corridor towards Budapest enough to talk about the fact that it is also connected to the port of Ploče and to the entire Eastern Europe and of course to the Baltic countries, and of course from there we can count on further development and development of the potential of the port itself because it is de facto becoming the first port for ships coming from the Middle East, it is the nearest port, becoming the nearest port with which to supply, of course, everything necessary for the development of these countries precisely the most natural, nearest and best traffic route. And in this sense, really relying on the railway corridor is extremely important because we know that rail transport is the cheapest transport when we talk about land transport and that the link and railway along the highway along the Corridor 5C should also be strengthened and it is foreseen in neighbouring BiH. Croatia is investing on its part all to improve these corridors, to improve the conditions in rail transport, and in this sense is the potential of Luke Ploče not only for the Republic of Croatia but for all of us neighbouring countries, so from BiH via Hungary, and thus further expanding towards other EU member states and non-members. Of course, that is where Ukraine rests, and in this sense we see what is indeed a strategic potential. When we talk about the loan itself, we can always say that it is extremely favourable. It is an institution with which the Republic of Croatia has been working with for many years since 1993, which has helped the Republic of Croatia to develop significantly. In this particular case, it is therefore 50m euros, with a maturity of 23 years, including a 12-year start. I think the fact of the beginning speaks enough, it says enough that the moment these projects are completed it will be able to be fully funded from the very own resources. So this guarantee provided by the Republic of Croatia is just a matter of saying, ultimately, the law that needs to be passed but which will not be returned from the state budget, but will return from the activity of the port itself. The available loan is available on 30 June 2014 precisely in this period from 2014 and will certainly be used because the project is adapted, to extend the capacity of the terminal and, in that sense, Luka Ploče is ready for this additional investment. In addition, why? Because so far it has been invested by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 58.8m euros and by the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction of 11.2m euros, which is clearly one large amount that has significantly developed Luka Ploče and has prepared for future business. Here I think that we have said the most significant things about the loan itself and what this investment will actually receive, and in this sense we can only gladly confirm our consent and say that we will gladly adopt this proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the project "Integration of Trade and Transport in Luce Ploče", of course on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80452	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80453	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. Here is the title on this topic certainly we at the HDZ Club and especially us who are from that area or close to it here I am not like Frano or Dubravka from the area of Neretvana-Dubrovnik County but Split-Dalmatia but my town Vrgorac is in any case the border area of Split-Dalmatia County relying on Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and the town of Ploče is as expensive and all its progress and successes as in my Vrgorac are for one reason only, and that is because in this backside which we have and in the cooperation of the local self-government unit a significant number of people from our area are working in this area. They're working at Lucy Ploche right now. It's always been like that today. This is why I wanted to personally give my support and my contribution to the topic that we are discussing today, i.e. the proposal for a guarantee agreement under this project "Integration of Trade and Transport in Luka Ploce" by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. However, there is something else that needs to be pointed out, not only is my area of living where I live, which is why this project is important. This project is an important total for the Republic of Croatia and the orientation of the Republic of Croatia on the reconstruction and development of all ports in general, as said by the State Secretary from Rijeka via Zadar to Sibenik, but Ploča as a port of special interest because in 2006 a contract was concluded that started something. Personally, all of us who are down close and have seen and know how much this means today in the restoration of Luke Ploče, also mentioned by fellow Matušić. But what might also be important to point out is that when it comes to this project, we all need to support it together. And I am sorry that today there are no colleagues and colleagues from the opposition because one part of them is also down from Dubrovnik-Neretva County to support one such project because it is not only important in this context of the port itself, so expanding the affairs of the port itself, but it is also important in the context of an international economic policy that will be conducted in this area, and in line with the construction of the 5C corridor that we will also discuss today. 5C corridor and its arrival in an area bordering our transport infrastructure right in the Ljubuski Municipality area down in Zvirići is a sign of one which means that it will connect the area practically from the Baltic to the Adriatic, and within it Luka Ploče with these additional stations of which the secretary of state spoke, which is overloads that should go to Italy etc. scattered burdens, etc. It means a lot. If this had been taken into account by now and it certainly had its own justification for being prominent, so far so far, traffic connection projects to Luce Ploče have shown. After all, the construction of the highway by Ploč was completed by 2012 and before that in 2008, the release of the fast road that goes to Luke Ploče and leans on the highway, it says to itself that already many advances have been made that should play a significant role in this construction of Luke Ploče and even for the whole area, the Neretva Valley. There is a colleague, Gabrić, and everyone else knows how important it is for the whole area of the Dubrovnik-Neretva Valley, but also the whole area of one part of Split-Dalmatia County and the area, should be said, the neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, because we know that Luka Ploče was long ago a port that was important for the development of the economy and neighbouring countries, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also for the orientation of one part of the people. So we here can talk and we should also talk about the needs of so-called neighbouring cross-border areas. Here last week we also voted on the law on the strategy that the Republic of Croatia should lead towards Croats outside Croatia, and here in this area close to the living and Croats, especially the border area are the municipalities of Capljina, Chitluk, Ljubuška, especially Ljubuski, because there comes 5c corridor which is also one good part of the focus on Luka Ploče in terms of employment and transport connections and that we are not talking about all other aspects and social levels, but also health, education. All of this is so connected and close to each other that only this upgrade will contribute to a single overall development of the entire area. So for this reason, not to list this now, not to repeat ourselves about the 50 million and the benefits it brings and in terms of the loan itself and its realization and the convenience of what counterpart Matušić said, only with a grace period of 12 years, etc., speaks enough for himself and the interest rate, etc. clearly points to the signification of this project. But for all those who haven't actually seen what's been done so far, see only that stage first that's made speaks enough of the need for further upgrade. So I say once again, I am sorry personally that there are no colleagues and colleagues from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, especially parts of the Split-Dalmatia County as well as others from the opposition, especially SDP, because they always call for their commitment to their end, and here's a contribution they could make today when it comes to Dubrovnik-Neretva County, when it comes to Luka Ploče, but not at all about the development of the Republic of Croatia, and not to be seen in the debate, and that we are not talking tomorrow about voting one of these significant projects for the whole area I say not only Dubrovnik-Neretva County and neighbouring countries but very close to the micro-regional, and also cross-border in terms of general economic development. Because Luka Ploche is the one we're all going to lean on tomorrow and lean on and use all these graces that come from this terminal of the scattered burden, but now... an already existing container. [[You don't understand.]] Here's what I'd like to finish my debate, clearly with a hint that I didn't mention all the aspects, I was just talking about traffic and this other one. But let's say another example of how significant this is, which just means that a thousand people down there who are being hired in a traffic sense, let's say the highway got to Vrgorca, the fast road comes right out there, so it enters the Port of Ploche. We in Vrgorec already have in the development and it is a full business zone precisely because of the proximity of Luke Ploče where people come because it is 20 km away, and the space should be in that part and towards Metkovic, but also worse towards the interior, according to Vrgorec so it is already provided with spatial-plank documentation of one and the other county, as well as cities for quite other economic purposes or in any other respect of economic. So, the economic aspect is the basics from which we must support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80454	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Representative Boris Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80455	Well, pal, you don't have to regret there's no opposition because they don't generally care about these development projects, it's visible. In principle, they do not worry about it because they are now simply agreeing, yet they have not been able to agree whether the International Monetary Fund will in future build the country's development destiny in Croatia because they obviously will not. You can see that they have not yet defined whether the IMF should come to Croatia or not, and they have had some experience from 2000, 2003 when they called the International Monetary Fund, when he cut down drastically all social rights to all social categories in Croatia. They had then a wave of strikes, dissatisfactions, etc. And they'd move on. So these development projects, which means for the employment of this region, which means it doesn't matter to them because they will generally be because they don't want to take responsibility for the development of this country, but they will go in a line of less resistance and then they will be pronounced, so we didn't do it, it's the International Monetary Fund, we have to listen to it, etc., as they did in 2003. So they have one problem, and that's the problem that they don't have in principle programmes, they don't have some vision that Croatia will move forward in any way because they already decided to leave it to the IMF, which Linic has spoken honestly, so now there are mutual conflicts within the party because they simply don't know who's talking about who's writing, who's reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80456	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80457	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Kunst, I think you've been very nicely detecting the title of my mention of their interest in this project, which is very important, therefore, from different aspects and to a very wide area. You've detected their main problem in fact, and that's just not an idea, which means one of these development projects. Now that clearly fits, you said very nicely, in their problem that exists, which is the idea of bringing the International Monetary Fund into Croatia, firing 80% of people from the state administration and not thinking about development. They don't actually realize that in Luce Ploče already in the restored part of the container work by a thousand people, and that the end of the work as we heard and as we see in the rest of this contract proposal, should be in 2014, they don't realize that it means hiring maybe as many people as they don't know or really don't want to understand how much it means for many families down there. I mentioned not only economically but also the social aspect and health and school, etc., at all, all aspects that will arise in the developmental sense, therefore, of building the Luke Plot itself. However, since it is working, I mentioned and particularly apostrophe of people living in that area downstairs, I am still sorry that they are not there because they are so heartily intercede for certain things, but only declaratively. When something is to be shown in action, they actually have a completely different approach and so is this problem. Because I remember a colleague and colleagues who belong to the opposition from the Dubrovnik-Neretva County who spoke so deeply about some problems of Ploč here when they discussed both asbestos and asbestos, etc., and when they were even talking about the development of that area down there, and today they are not when they talk about the most significant project in this area of micro-regional that they lean on, as I said earlier, that I do not repeat many areas. But here I hope the people will judge and judge who is who they want in a developmental sense the welfare of the entire Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80458	Thank you. Ms. Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80459	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here is the conclusion of this guarantee contract and loan contract that enables further implementation of the project of integration of trade and transport at the port of Ploče, i.e. the construction of a decommissioned cargo terminal, which aims to increase the capacity, efficiency and quality of services along the southern part of the VC corridor, with an emphasis on the port of Ploče and precisely on this project of integration of trade and transport. Therefore, the law confirms the guarantee agreement in order to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and establishes the way in which the financial commitments that potentially arise for the Republic of Croatia as a guarantee under the guarantee agreement are settled, and binding the share of the Republic of Croatia in financing during the implementation of this project. Therefore, this law lays down jurisdiction over the implementation of the loan contract, as well as jurisdiction in the implementation of the guarantee contract. The amount of loans, i.e. guarantees for which this contract is signed, is 50m euros, the repayment period of 23 years, began for 12 years, the deadline for withdrawal of funds is September 2014. I will remind you that the total cost of this project is 141m euros. I will also remind myself that so far, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has granted 50 loans to Croatia, 30 direct and 15 with a state guarantee of 2.3 billion euros and that it has given 51 gifts of $72m. I will also remind myself that the basis for the withdrawal, i.e. the possibility of using the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is the basis for a strategy adopted by the Committee and approved and approved by the World Bank Executive Directors' Committee in Washington in 2008, for a four-year loan programme to the Republic of Croatia amounting to $1.4 billion, and this can be used for transport, energy, education, environmental protection, healthcare and analytical bases for those projects. Here is precisely in order to develop the infrastructure in the port of Ploče, which is a port of special state interest in November 2006, a contract was signed on the loan of the World Bank, and in 2007 with the EBRD for a project of integration of trade and transport. The state budget funds, the state budget funds are 21m euros per year, the own funds used by the port of Ploce, the loan is 58.8m euros from the IBRD, the EBRD loan is 11.2m euros, and these means financing the construction of a decommissioned cargo terminal at the port of Ploče. At this point, it takes another 50m euros for the period 2011 to 2013, I will also remind myself that the development goal, that the project's development objective means this additional funding does not change, but thus improves the quality of the service, but also the capacity of the Ploče port. This loan would be used to finance additional costs to increase capacity, and to finance the construction of insufficient capacity for the decommissioned cargo terminal, but also for the container terminal. So the port administration of Ploče plans to make this 50m-euro loan means a version of a terminal with an increased capacity and productivity for which 36m euros will be spent, 11m euros will be used in contrast to the price of building a container terminal compared to those of the first design prices and 3m euros for interest during the construction of the terminal. Here I will conclude, therefore, as the Secretary of State said at the beginning of this big investment cycle that is happening on our coast, means from Rijeka, Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik and these ports of Ploče, exactly what the government has set itself as a strategic goal, which is to make us as competitive as possible by joining the European Union, i.e. that our economy enters the European Union as competitive as possible. Here are the projects that allow the economy to improve competitiveness, so I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80460	Thank you. Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80461	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I came forward and after speaking on behalf of the club, I reported that as a representative from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, I would once again say the actual importance of this project for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, i.e. primarily for employees of the port of Ploče, then for the city of Ploče, for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, for the Republic of Croatia, and for countries in our environment, above all for Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in this sense it is indeed about one commendable bill confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for additional financing of the project of integration of trade and transport in the port of Ploca. Namely, the International Bank and the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction have already invested 70m euros in the project's current project, the current project of integration of trade and transport at the port of Ploca, and in this sense a good part of the work already done and the container terminal is already running, however, it has been seen that in the meantime it is necessary to increase the capacity of both the container terminal and the cargo terminal. Why? Because the port of Ploče obviously I would say a strategic place, a strategic port which can truly achieve high development, a high level of development not only in that part of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, not only in the city of Ploča, but also beyond, it is also important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, because of the maximum use of Bosnia and Herzegovina's proximity to the port of Ploče as an import port, in fact as an port through which it can also import and export its products, but on the other hand, the entire economy of Croatia's south is focused on the port of Ploče itself and in that sense we must support this law, because we believe that it is extremely important for the city and the port and for the county. The port of Ploče is an extremely strong economic factor in this area, it employs more than a thousand people, made a great contribution to the Homeland War, made a great contribution to the development of the Republic of Croatia, and in this sense it was necessary to make those decisions which meant that small shareholders would by recapitalisation become majority owners of the port of Ploče which they themselves welcomed, and of course we who come from the Croatian south absolutely welcome the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which made it possible for such a set of events because we really believe it is extremely important that this economic operator continues to develop intensively. Because he will certainly hire more people in the future and strengthen the economic blood count of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Capacities are needed significantly higher than those provided for due to the fact that we in neighbouring Italy have great needs specifically for coal which is supplied from the far east and large ships that are supplied with coal simply cannot agree to the Italian coasts in the Adriatic part of the Adriatic because of the depth of the gas, and in that sense, of course, the port of Ploče is extremely important as a transit port for these burdens and already, already, these benefits are used. And of course you can see the possibility and significantly higher profits because the coal that is supplied there is used in Italian power-generating thermal power plants. Of course, in this sense it is extremely important, it is important that this position of the port of Ploče has provided another important job that is important not only for Croatia but also for our neighbouring Italy. When it comes to the fact that the port of Plot is important for our neighbouring countries, then it should be borne in mind that the port of Ploče is positioned so that two transport corridors of importance for the EU are in its vicinity, important for the Middle East and important for the Baltic countries and Eastern Europe from Ukraine and beyond. So, two corridors – Corridor VC, which goes from Ploč to Budapest and the Adriatic-Ionian Corridor that we have already built in the Republic of Croatia, remains this part of Ploč towards Dubrovnik highway, which will certainly be built in the next period. Project documentation has already been built, last year Croatian highways received 10 million kunas for project documentation from Bol to Osojnik, so up to Dubrovnik itself and in this sense everything is ready to do what is extremely important for Dubrovnik and its surroundings, for the entire Dubrovnik-Neretva County. It's parallel to the construction of the Peljega Bridge, of course, which we see construction continues and continues. And I'm sure it'll be a big step in improving the infrastructure. So, the Pelješki bridge and highway to Dubrovnik corridor, which is drawn into the spatial plan of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. So this will mean a lot to all of us in the Croatian south, but also to us neighbouring countries. So the port of Ploče is connected by the Corridor of the VC towards Budapest and of course it becomes the spine, this corridor becomes the backbone of development and BiH, but continues across eastern Croatia, so Slavonia from Osijek towards Budapest and hence, of course, one leg of the transport European routes leads towards Ukraine, and the other leads towards the Baltic countries. And it is quite clear that this position of the port of Ploče is extremely important for all those countries which, therefore, gravity these traffic routes. Because the port of Ploče is actually the nearest significant freight port on the corridor where ships come from the far east, so across the bindings that come to Europe and of course it becomes the closest port to these states that I say, which are gravitating in these two traffic directions. It is important to say that, of course, along the highway along the Corridor VC, it is also necessary to improve the infrastructure of railways, so the rail infrastructure which will also respond to today's transport challenges and to the fact that the port of Ploče is connected to both the railway and the highway speaks enough about its potential usability and the jobs that will result. Here I think it's really a shame that this bill will not support the SDP because their lack of presence here today speaks enough about their concern for development projects in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, if they are already boycotting the work of the Parliament in a way that they do not give the quorum and do not vote, it does not prevent them from coming to discuss some points of view. They obviously have a negative attitude toward such projects that mean development. This is about 50m euros in 12-year-old loans, 23 years paid off. It is an extremely favourable loan that will ensure further development of the port of Ploče and we are truly saddened by the fact that SDP and HNS do not support such projects that are extremely important for the development of the Croatian South. And speaking of finances then they really need to be answered that the government of the Republic of Croatia led by HDZ with its partners, so under the leadership of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, she certainly knows how to behave responsibly with the finances and certainly we do not need the IMF. Why shouldn't I? So this is the first year, the first financial year since Croatia's independence, in which there is no budget rebalancing. So, there is no budget rebalance in this financial year and it is clear to all of us, and it is clear from this fact that good governance and finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia come from this, and it is clear that our position that we ourselves can edit finances in our own home and that we do not need any help from the IMF. And so calling the IMF just means not finding it in that space. And the fact that the SDP did not want to support the Fiscal Responsibility Act further explains what their objectives are. In fact, their goals are to further destabilise finance in the Republic of Croatia, sell out all natural resources as they sold out in 2002, 2003, as they sold out hotels to their friends. Today, the same one who calls on the IMF in Croatia thinks it's forgotten what he did with Victor Lenco, where the Republic of Croatia gave hundreds of millions of dollars to a private company so that they eventually throw it into bankruptcy. And it had to wait for the HDZ period to save Victor Lenac, who today is a healthy company. So, it is about people who are irresponsible, who are not really on the soul of the development of Croatia and the improvement of all Croatian citizens, but who care about their chairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80462	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First up, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80463	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So, fellow Matušić, you said well about the IMF, the question is that some other time, that some others, and that they have signed a stand by arrangement with the IMF, we certainly wouldn't be discussing this item on the agenda today, why? So when you look at the agreement with the IMF, among other things, you have state guarantees, because every given state guarantee is a potential cost in some future times for the state because we don't know if the company that got that guarantee will be able to repay that loan. And so, when we talk about why in these crisis years we kept saying that we do not need the IMF that we are aware of certain structural reforms that need to be made amongst others, this is a bright example, because no one will say that the significance of the port of Ploče for the Croatian economy, for the economy of neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina is exceptional and that we are not talking about the part down so Ploče-Metkovic, which is the port of Ploče. But if it were someone else, then you wouldn't be able to guarantee it because you would fill that quota with something else. And that should be told Croatian citizens what that means. And when we talk about this stand by arrangement you saw today some say not to say it does not say it in our program, and we have to go back to the 99th year and then they didn't talk about making a stand by arrangement, but as soon as they came to power they immediately ran and signed and what they signed inside, arranged with the unions not paying off the goddess, the failure to pay off the regress, the reduction of the mass of funds for wages, the reduction of certain rights and, among other things, the limitation of guarantees and some other financial transactions. Therefore, fellow Matušić is well mentioned in this section because I think that Croatian citizens should be clearly told what would happen if the Croatian government made a stand by arrangement because let's not forget that this year, when the IMF's mission was last visited, they started a... kuna course. And which would mean a decline in the kuna relative to the euro, it's all felt by those who have loans in Swiss and over 80% of credit is tied to the euro in the Republic of Croatia, and it's certainly something that the IMF would have problems with because in the last year they started saying that it's no longer just a problem that fiscal policy solves problems but that it has to do monetary policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80464	Answer Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80465	Thank you, Mr. President, I agree with my colleague Schucker with you, quite certainly, that there would be neither this guarantee nor the numerous other guarantees that the Republic of Croatia is providing for projects because it believes in their justification, because it truly believes that they will gain success on the economic plan. This project will certainly be returned from the port's resources because such a volume of work has already been achieved that it is quite clear that it will be able to repay the real funds that will benefit from this loan and in this sense there is no danger for the Republic of Croatia to return part of this loan from the budget. But when you talk about the fact that some would challenge, in order for some to invite the IMF in this situation where it really isn't necessary, then you should say that the very fact would call into question a number of social benefits, a number of social benefits. There would also be a question of maternity benefits, a number of benefits and defence populations, etc. That's what this is about. It is that it would most certainly be under this pressure likely to implement the goal that they have set out, which is the dismissal of 80% of public administration employees. So their alibi would be the IMF and, of course, would try to implement that policy of firing employees who do not belong to the SDP or who are not their voters or supporters. We have already had the chance to feel unfortunately their human policy, which was implemented from 2000 to 2003. I will remind the Croatian public that they were set up by the Staff Committee, and formally founded it, and I don't know how many parties there were then, the Staff Committee which determined which place, from the cleaning lady to the next, I hope that the Croatian public and especially the employees did not forget.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80466	Thank you. We have still a replica of Mr. Representative Boris Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80467	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague Matusic, I mentioned it earlier in my debate, I didn't think I'd say it anymore, but I really can't say it again because I see and you're troubled by the problem that I tried to mention and it's about the interest of our colleagues and colleagues from the 10th constituency that we come from for a project that is of such exceptional importance for the whole area, not only of these micro-region but also much wider. However, if that were not the case, I mentioned the issue of the International Monetary Fund and everything else, but if it were nothing new to us, I would just confirm something and it's about relying on the topic we're talking about because then the replica would make no sense. Namely, let us only remember the opening of the highway section to Vrgorec, none of these same colleagues and colleagues came at that moment to share joy with the people of the same micro-region, from Metković, through Ploč to Vrgorec and across the border from Capljina, Ljubusko, Gruda, etc., where Croats live. Where people who rely on the whole area live and are inseparably tied to each other, not only are they working on one side of the border or one place or another, but also through health, school and all other upgrades that follow that development. Or another very classic and fresh example, which refers to last week's debate and the adoption of the Law on Croats outside Croatia, they do not realize that there is only 5 km away from the Ploč that we are talking about today or the areas of the Croatians who are actually relying on the whole area. This speaks enough about the interest of our colleagues and colleagues, who, with the support of them, are of course prone to media, primarily from the EPH, so the Morning and Free Dalmatia will highlight everything that is not related to it nor will they want to say what is in the interest of the people of the region. Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80468	Thank you. Mr. Frano Matušić's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80469	I thank Mr. President, a colleague in this is a difference, we look forward to Croatian successes no matter where they happen, and they are not looking forward to it. It's a clear fact and a clear difference between us and them. I am pleased by the personal and what was done around the city of Rijeka, invested on several billion kunas in various detours which are actually local roads, when looking at the local detour that was made, it is a local river road. There, the government of the Republic of Croatia led by HDZ along with its coalition partners invested several billion kunas there. I'm really happy about it, but I'm worried about the fact that they don't enjoy the highway towards Dubrovnik and that they're not happy about the Pelješki bridge that connects Croatia into one whole. It is truly devastating and tragic for the Croatian people, that we are witnessing such a policy of the SDP. Here's the case of the latest in Dubrovnik. The government has issued a concession for Marina in Luce Gruž. She waited more than two years for the city of Dubrovnik to bring in its space-plan documentation so that the project could be realised. And after the city of Dubrovnik brought some space-plan documentation somewhere in July, it was due to the poor production of the space-plan documentation tab that further improves some things or repairs to make the project a realisation. And when he did, the government that was waiting for them to do it for more than two years has opened a concession tender for today's SDP-HNS leader, Andro Vlahusic, the mayor of the city, to attack the government of the Republic of Croatia to call a concession for the marina at the time pre-election, etc. It waited for him for more than two years to do his part of the job, and now that it was finally almost the government had immediately approached the realization of the project. So it has nothing to do with either election or nothing, and it has nothing to do with what he's trying to do with some kind of corruption, etc. It is a harsh, harsh lie and an insult to the government and to insult the minds of all of us and to insult the minds of Croatian citizens in Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80470	We've got a second line. Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80471	Thank you, Mr. President. So here is colleague Matušić, who pointed out the importance of construction, construction, expansion of Luke Ploče. So, apart from new employment, we have here the possibility of connecting more strongly with both Italy and the hinterland, with Hungary, so Luka Ploče is extremely located. So this is one of the essential laws. And let's remember that for months now, the Parliament has been asked to disband. So we don't need to work, we don't need to pass laws, and we and the government are doing it until the last minute, which I think is extremely useful. We heard clearly the IMF's summoning and, as counterpart Schucker said this morning, the IMF will force us to sell almost everything we have to actually make so if you need to and Luke Ploche and I don't know what it all is. So calling on the IMF SDP is actually evidence in some sense and cowardice, that I can't do it alone. And the question of what awaits us, because let's remember that their main economic strategist Branko Grcic said he wrote everything in the election programme, the SDP to write everything in the electoral programme he intends to do so he doesn't get any votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80472	Answer Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80473	Thank you, Mr. President. So it's not just cowardice as you say colleague Markovanovic, it's incompetence. The inability to properly manage finances in the Republic of Croatia and to highlight the way in which Croatian financial programmes should be designed to achieve economic growth, that is. They're just not able to find the right program. That is why they call on the IMF to naturally sell out state property like you said because the IMF is seeking privatisation of all areas and sectors, and in that sense you are right. But when you talk about what they would do and what they wouldn't do, I'm sure they wouldn't be able to do it. Why? Because this fact that you're talking about actually keeping the figurines in your pocket is already coming out in front of Croatian citizens today. Stanko Grcic speaks one thing, thinks the other, and the third one cooks. No, Stanko, I'm sorry. I apologize to our colleague Stanko from HSS, but Branko Grcic. Therefore, he who is the main economic strategist of the SDP has made it clear enough that they really do not intend to force Croatia, that they have no intention but if they are in a position to destroy Croatia. The same thing when we talk about these projects, and the projects that are really about Croatia's economic development, they really mean it. This project is extremely important, it unites trade and transport in one space, which is strategically important not only for Croatia and Luka Ploče, the town of Ploče, but rather important for all countries in the environment and that position of the economic operator should be used maximum. Of course there will be new employment, of course there will be new programmes that will be suitable in the United States and, of course, that will be of maximum benefit to the employees, but I am a team of local and regional self-government and it has been achieved at the very least terrible that our colleagues do not have the strength to come here and discuss, support this. At least let them support the debate, they don't have to vote. We will have a quorum to vote on, do not have to vote, but at least give a positive opinion on this kind of positive project that will mean a lot to our county.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80474	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80475	An article has been injured, Mr. President 214. Where the speaker demeans or insults the president or other MPs. In this case, I find it insulting to you as president. I can't be offended because I'm aware of what kind of country we live in, but listening to these praises turns out that we don't live in the Republic of Croatia but in a country of dembelia. ... Don't shut me down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Rules of Procedure 214 are down. As far as this is concerned, the HDZ money is not shared but shared by Croatian citizens. It's not from black bags. It's from the state budget. ... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80476	Come on, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure because on the basis of paragraph 4, you've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a correction of an incorrect assumption, and you're starting to talk about another subject that you didn't get a point about. Thus, Mr. Frano Matušić did not in any way harm the Rules of Procedure. And if I'm hurt, or if I'm any kind of agent, I'll do it. I know if I did or didn't get hurt. I'm not hurt. Therefore, you have injured the Rules of Procedure. Don't answer so you're actually humiliating all of us and making us something. You know yourself that from the other day you've been reporting for no reason to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you keep doing it. Don't put me in a position where I have to react to you in this last session. I won't be giving any warning without much trouble, but let's stick to the rules of procedure, all of us. Therefore, it was not correct to lift up for damage to the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, we're going to Boris Kunst's replica, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80477	Well, colleague Matušić, you have well noticed that actually south, Croatia's south is not their developmental priority. Well, that's what you could see when you were talking about the Peljesk Bridge that they were fighting against. South of Karlovac, in principle their developmental, they stop these developmental aspects of Croatia, they are more based on Zagreb, on Zagreb Holding which in fact damaged a billion euros, which unfortunately will have to pay the citizens of this city through the prices of municipal services and there they see their interest where they can suck. And as for the summoning of the International Monetary Fund, that's where they finally took off their masks. They are not only that they obviously failed to agree but they are two-faced this time, so they have one programme that presents to the public Croatian citizens, and the other one has a desk if they happen to come to power that would draw under the table, meaning where the International Monetary Fund would play a major role as it played in 2002, 2003, when workers were reduced by 30% to 40%, all social rights, labour rights, etc. and that's what the IMF is doing and it's nothing new or we're exaggerating anything but it's a practice in countries where the IMF is coming. So in principle, they exposed themselves, all those crocodile tears they were pouring into their social rights now because they see that they are not interested in labour rights, social rights as soon as they call on the International Monetary Fund in Croatia. And as for their share in economic crime, it's very high, especially during conversion and privatisation. Just ask how many of their people were in the boards of directors, supervisory boards who made decisions about the bankruptcy of companies or the sale of various companies. They have experience, they just need to be given a chance to get back into that position so they can continue to deal with this economic crime regarding the sale or privatisation of state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80478	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80479	Mr. President. I agree with my colleague, Kunst, with you. When you talk about economic crime, then the best example right now is Victor Lenac, and it's really surprising that this episode didn't get a sequel. We believe that somewhere preparation is being continued in view of what was happening, given that someone had given it there, the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave hundreds of millions of dollars to a private company that the same SDPs sent into bankruptcy and tried to actually destroy it. We hope that it will still experience some follow-up. As for these other facts that you pointed out and regarding projects in the Croatian south, unfortunately I say they do not support anything that was said outside of Holding, but the fact is that they show the Croatian public that they are unable to agree on the price of kindergartens, that they are not able to agree in a city which is a quarter of Croatia to agree on some basic things and are unable to find answers for the basic things that torture Croatian citizens daily, so from communal to others, here to the price of kindergarten clearly shows what kind of people it is. And when they say there's no IMF in their programs, there's probably no program, but it's in their heads, it's worse. It's worse when it's in their IMF heads than when it's in the program because when it's in the program, people know exactly what they're expecting. This way, when it is only in their heads, it is quite clear that it is something they would rely on, something they desire, and it would indeed be tragic for Croatia because it would put us back in the same situation you colleagues were talking about, so that wages would be reduced by 30% to 40%, in order to reduce social rights, social giving, so that subsidies would be lifted etc. So it's about getting into a much, much harder situation than we are today and a much harder situation than we might have been in 2003 or 2004. So it's quite certain that it's the figurines in the pocket, it's a policy that can be very clearly identified from these bounces, because if a man who claims to be some kind of finance minister as they announce him in the SDP, he says they would immediately call the IMF. On the other hand, a man who pretends to be a leader in the position that in their program it doesn't have it then it's clear there's nothing there. There's nothing in that program or in those heads.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80480	Thank you. It's Mrs. Dubravka Shuica's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80481	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, I guess some of the residents of Plot and the surrounding area are watching this morning's program, and they're going to figure out who's in favour, who's not in favour, who's in the Assembly, who's not. In any case, I want to give my support to this guarantee, this project of integration of trade and transport to Luci Ploče. We all know that the increased need for growth, terminally for scattered burdens, and we also know that the need for a container terminal has increased, regardless of what a new container terminal has already been built but a new market has emerged. Both for one terminal and another, as we've heard about the cargo crossing, coal over Luke Ploche for Italian ports where there's not enough gauze. The point is, we've already heard about a 50m-euro project. These are very large funds, but they are also very good conditions, first of all a long-term start, and what is particularly looking forward to the use of the loan by 2014, which is very important, which means that this project will be realised during that time. What does a project of this value mean? First of all, more employment. We've heard there's a thousand workers working in Luce Ploche, but that can double the number of employees. Of course we have to take into account that new technologies are so that it may not be such a large number, but in any case a larger number of employees will be, but construction operations will wake up in that area, which is very important for construction companies to work, to multiply the effects of such a single project. As for Luke Ploche herself, we praised her very much here and she really played a very important role in the war and she is also her employees, but also the leadership of Luke Ploče, who was very wise and who brought the company into this position today that she is very good at peace and that she is very good at business. She survived all those challenges of transition, all those challenges of conversion and privatisation and became one I can say from more prominent companies or companies in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the Croatian south. We should commend the role of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, recently we were at the very event below, solemnly in Luce Ploče when small shareholders were given the opportunity to capitalize the company. The company has been recapitalised and is owned by most small shareholders, which is very important. It is very important that workers manage their firm and that they actually know best what they need and that they don't need any masters, I won't speak foreign or domestic now, but in any case they know best what they need in the south. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognized their need and at their request, at their request it met these, their wishes and I think it is one of the excellent moves and perhaps one of the excellent examples of how to work with the remaining companies that may have remained in Croatia. This is a great potential, we have heard here to tell my predecessors about the VC corridor, the VC corridor will have the next point, but it's very important that 9 kilometers to the Bosnia and Herzegovina border, it's very important to continue to build in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because this is also about development, the development potential, it's about the entrepreneurial zone, it's about the new economic zone that has already begun to niche in that area, at that intersection of the VC corridor, I often know to say that at least Dubrovnik was here and not far away, but in any case we are waiting for the arrival of the highway in Ploče, and we also expect this 27km section from Dubrovnik, i.e.... which is currently being designed. [[You don't understand.]] We believe in highways, and we want it to be really highways, not fast roads as they say. It is often referred to as the non-physicality of the road towards Dubrovnik, but as the Croatian state has the same monetary system, as it has the same education system, I think it should be equally often integrated into the queen country, and I think it is one very important data and I want all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to hear it, because as we have heard, as we like to build Vukovar, Osijek, Virovitica, Ilock, so I believe that all the other Istria, that all the other Croatians and Croatian citizens, citizens want to build the Croatian south. And as for the SDP and their absence here, I also join in thinking that at least on this topic they should have entered the assembly and shown their position about it, but apparently SDP is not, it's not really about development projects and I'm really going to stress here the role of SDP and HNS in my town of Dubrovnik. In the third year of the mandate that slowly escapes no project, no single development project has happened in that city, a small rotor was built for which the money was invested by the Croatian roads, so absolutely no projects, and when after not only two years, but after 5, 6 years it was the urban plan of the port of Gruz, which includes the port of Gruž, which is already serious and which we have already had the opening of two, three terminals, it is also the southern side of Lapad where the marina is to be built, where the Government of the Republic of Croatia has called for a concession these days and we have all been waiting for it, all the citizens of Dubrovnik have waited for a long time, because it was very complex, it was the procedure for the adoption of the urban planning plan since it was a protected zone, since it was a resort complex, and therefore the urban planning plan was long. However, when it has already been brought in, no matter how the government has brought it, the city of Dubrovnik, the leaders of the city of Dubrovnik, so SDP and HNS, oppose the government's having a concession for such an object as the marina. I think that is enough this data illustrates how the Social Democratic Party looks at projects and how it actually thinks about developing Croatia when it comes to the occasion, and I hope it won't, and the Dubrovnik example is an excellent example that says what happened in three years, in the third year of power. Nothing happened, just stories the virtual world lives on stories, conversations of some projects that do not exist, and I think that at least when it comes to the Croatian South, the citizens of the Croatian South, and in particular the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, on this example, they will realize that they should continue to support such a Croatian democratic community with their partners and the Croatian Government headed by Mrs Kosor. In any case, I hope that the heads of our county will accept this project safely, but the city of Dubrovnik does not, and I think that the city of Dubrovnik as one, as an important centre must lead, and they do not lead it, but lead the city into stagnation. That's why I'm going back to this law one more time. I support it and hope that we will also support everyone here and the continuation of the highway and the Pelješki bridge that should no longer be mentioned, because we see that it has entered the paragraphs and this year's budget next year and I believe that this project will be somewhat slower, but we will still realise the satisfaction of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80482	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first replica is Mrs. Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80483	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's my friend Shuica, I'm glad you're like this on a nice and actually plastic, bright way to go through not only the law, but also connected him to a history of a port like Ploche, so I've just found a reason to make you a link in a few of your thinkings, too, and in view of your observation of SDP's evasiveness, the HNS from the assembly, and I definitely find a lot of reasons and make a link with Sibenik. The Sibenik SDP, the HNS government definitely accuses the Government of the Republic of Croatia of its ineffectiveness and what they are not able to do themselves, and they certainly do not have the courage nor so much so that I would say that everything that the HDZ government has left them and that they have inherited that they can now, together with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this is definitely the reconstruction of the port in Sibenik 5 hundred metres of the operational coast for which we also brought in this assembly, I will again say with the wish and political determination of this government in Croatia, the Sibeniks know very well what it means for the whole city, for the entire county, and I dare say to the region, because our port in Sibenik is excellent and has an excellent link with the railway, and with the business zone, with air traffic, etc. and so much closer. Definitely the projects we left behind or were, or started and brought before only the implementation of the European Union's funds, so here they can also say that the elementary school served on a large-scale plate is also from the pre-accession, i.e.... the project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, here is a short time for me, so I must say, if we have read the report on the effects of the Island Act, then I will also say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has singled out no more than 8 million kunas for infrastructure and 12 million kuna for social upgrades on the inhabited Sibenik islands through its resolution bodies in 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80484	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Shuica. I'm really asking you not to pass the time in these replicas and answers. He's got two minutes, anyone can say theirs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80485	Okay, thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Klaric HDZ is building, and they're just lamentating. HDZ deals with politics, and they deal with politics. And what is politics in this case? Policy is a long-term strategy, policy is development, and in this case the Ploče port is a policy of connecting, integrating Europe as a whole from the north to the south. We heard from the north via Baltic across Central Europe to the south. And that's HDZ policy. And their model is just to lamentate, to go back to the past. It's that model in Sibenik and Dubrovnik that's not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80486	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Nevenka Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80487	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague you said there are more than 1,000 employees in the port of Ploche, which directly, indirectly. The same is expected in our port in Zadar, meaning the port of Gaženica that we call it, and many call it the Millennium Project for a small Mediterranean metropolis. It's not a meaningless item at this time of employment. However, what I want to say here is that here are the projects that show that the Government of the Republic of Croatia means investing in and starting this cycle of development ports again I will mention both Rijekas and Zadars and Sibeniks and Ploče is investing in the development of the economy and in the competitiveness of our economy. And you'll agree with me that here's the port are the drivers of economic development, that they serve over 90% of the world's trade, and it's projected to double this container traffic in the next decade, and that's really one cycle that promises a more significant development swing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80488	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80489	Mrs. Marinovic is looking forward to every investment, especially investment in infrastructure because infrastructure is the basis for every development. So let's just go to the Adriatic of Rijeka, now you mention your Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Ploč, Dubrovnik in all ports, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has invested huge funds to develop Croatia's Adriatic and to make Croatia competitive and to have contact with the entire world across the port, and also through the road corridors we talked about earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80490	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80491	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a few days before the release would be fair from both our colleagues and colleagues from SDP and HNS if they were here. We see, we look at topics, topics extremely attractive, so topics that will contribute to the development of Croatia, not to talk about employment. Here they mentioned several, and the colleague one, the other mentions employment that is extremely important because still the number of unemployed is decreasing, and let's remember that all those who are us, here are teaching us employment lessons that at one point they had about 432 thousand unemployed on the market. So, a record over the record for a short time, and then there was a general clearing of the stock market. Whoever was suspicious threw him off the stock market and thus artificially reduced him. But a little while when we listen to them, then it's really a little weird that cacophony in their conversations because here's SDP's first and strongest man Slavko Linic with his here's the man he put on the front of SDP Milanovic's facade he can't agree with. IMF, not IMF. Of course it's a play and the IMF is the only wisdom for them because then they won't have to do anything but simply listen to what the IMF orders them, so if they need to sell, we'll sell, if they need to cut their salaries, and if they need to disenfranchise and chase some off the job first of all, who? Nurses, teachers, military, police? That huge reduction, and according to the number they're talking about, can only apply to them, one small part perhaps in the state administration. So they don't know what they're saying except big promises, they don't know what they're gonna do, and that's why they need a foreign tutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80492	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Shuica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80493	So here's when you talk about employment you forgot about that 200 thousand-dollar job fairy tale that never came true in 2000, so I hope the people of the Republic of Croatia remember that fairy tale about 200 thousand jobs that didn't happen. It should also be said that September 1st, September 2011, is the first month outside the main tourist season, which showed a significant decline in unemployment. And when you talk about the IMF, my opinion is a little different from yours, I don't think Mr. Linic came into conflict with the party leader, but that he was tasked with dropping the test balloon, seeing how the public would react to that idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80494	Thank you. We have a further replica, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80495	Thank you, Mr. President. But first, let me explain, I see you're looking at us strangely. This is usually a Slavonic or a shock hat. John Paul II put one of these on him. In 2003, in Djakov, in front of the student cathedral. This is a pumpkin or a shocker saying, I see some MPs know, but some MPs don't know, so here's a little bit to educate them. Now, I will remind you that where I am fortunate that this government has given a little more money and resources to Slavonia, but this session of the Parliament began with just one similar point where the Parliament gave consent to the former president, or the captain of the government, or the captain with the "little vitre" of the other Eve, to sign just like this law. And the money was spent in the 10th month of 2007 before the elections. Whether for the port of Ploche or for something else, that remains to be seen. And these laws, and I have to admit, I didn't want to break this idyllic atmosphere, so I even came to report to myself and give myself a replica because this really doesn't lead anywhere. This idyllic atmosphere and this optimism, you and the president, I think you share that opinion, 97 points of the agenda, this one for another 2.5 days, I don't think it can be done. And all the laws are made by that system go to the government truck and carry the rock foundation. You want a hospital? Here's the hospital. You want school? Here's your school. You want a maternity home? He can have a maternity home but not in Djakov, not Slavonia. Do you want a national bachelor? You'll also get a state bachelor. I would just like to remind myself that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by touring the Republic of Croatia, opens up some institutions, places stone foundations, and at the same time mini assemblies are held in these cities, not "God save Croatia" but "God preserve Croatia from HDZ" and spends money from the state budget on the promotion of HDZ. So it is a complete conflict of interest and that is what Croatian citizens absolutely cost and will cost them in the coming years. And as far as working rights and unions are concerned, until yesterday you said it's not possible to pay the workers of Đakovština, today it's paid. So I didn't... That's what you tell your story. [[The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] Ask Mr. Kunst what he stood for?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80496	Otherwise, I don't normally comment on these replicas and that, however, I'm just glad that this one was explained, I know that costume, but many people don't know but this isn't about the replica inside the club we suggested that it be abolished, but they didn't accept most of it, HDZ suggested it. Because the idyll actually falls out, but it's in line with the Rules of Procedure, so I can't give anyone a word about it, and how much anyone will use that institute for that reason or not, that's another question. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80497	Well, Article 213 was injured, Mr President, first of all, I believe that you didn't invite in today's Chamber of Tamburas who still don't know that culture that this House should take off its hat when it comes in, and that's out of its hands. And as for the workers of Đakovština, that's where the government came out on the hands of the workers, at least, that's what one mayor would know, nobody forced anyone, but it should have been if the exception had been made by the government, which could have cost later on as far as other workers were concerned, it would have paid off 28 million kuna to the workers, and what could have been done after the bankruptcy procedure had been completed, because even the workers did not report their claims to the agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80498	As regards the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I may agree or disagree whether someone can wear or not, however, it does not say anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that he cannot, including the hat. Therefore, I can't do anything about it, I can have an opinion on it but the Rules of Procedure there is no clear at all. Here is also the violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80499	Article 214 has been injured where the representative degrades other MPs. This is an insult, not to me, but to me more says a word spoken for me than to whom it is directed but Mr. Kunst insulted the entire Slavonia, this is not the uniform of the tambourine, this is Slavonic folk costume, one part of Slavonic folk costume. And as for the tambourine, where you are lucky to have more tambourines in music than you have tambourines in your own party, so don't beat yourself up, but start talking a little smarter and taller, and listen a little bit to your speeches in the Parliament, and you'll see what you've been saying about the workers of Đakovština and what else you're saying about everything, just to remind you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80500	It is past time, and Mr. Kunst did not hurt anyone and offended him mentioned the tambours in another sense and not to offend them, therefore, that remark that he hurt the 214th article is not acceptable to me. Let's go, Mrs. Shuica. You're the one who answered. Here you go, Mr. Matkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80501	My colleague Vinkovic hurt Article 214 and that's why I'm reporting, which means that he hurt our MPs personally because I think I'm hurt, and he said that once we start talking too loud and smartly, he obviously wants to say that this side of the assembly sits a fool and sits stupid people. If he says we start talking smart, then we didn't say anything smart. You also gave yourself a ride in a city car, and you charged the costs for travel expenses. Don't insult others if you've got butter on your head.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80502	It would have been an injury, it wasn't explicitly so that it could be interpreted, so I can't apply any institute here, but Mr. Vinkovic, isn't it a little bit of a pain in the ass to pick up that plate. Tell me what's been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80503	An article like this 214 insults other MPs, there he is injured. As for this butter on your head, I don't know if you're making out with margarine, I don't. And as far as I know by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, someone is innocent until proven guilty, so I still don't have a valid court ruling. As far as I'm concerned, I didn't say in my speech if you recognized yourself like you said it was your business. I didn't say you were stupid or that you were fools.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80504	Thank you. Mr. Matkovic did not insult anyone under Article 214 and it is nice to hear here that sometimes to respect the Constitution. So selectively, when it suits us, then we'll respect it, when it doesn't answer, then we won't. Okay, we're still making progress in that application. Now I'd like to give my word to Mrs. Djurdice twilight, replica. Excuse me, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80505	Forget... a series of injuries to the Rules of Procedure either. Well, anyway, Mr. Winkovic didn't exactly replicate my exposure, but I do need to comment on his hat, and I'm surprised that you didn't, Mr. President, no matter what business you warned him about. ... There's no pot on his head, but he's got a hat, but he finally admitted that no one's guilty until proven guilty. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm glad to hear it from your mouth, Mr. Winkovic. And as for the topic and idylla within our club, this topic is really idyllic, because this Luka Ploče is just an idyllic example of a company in southern Croatia. She truly deserves such commendation, and I believe that you would say the same if you would answer your word and if you knew something about this subject. Because the container terminal you were telling at the beginning of the story and that first contract was built, that container terminal was built and it was functional and opened several months ago. And when it comes to you saying in your replica that HDZ spends government money on the campaign, HDZ spends money on Đakovština and spends 28 million kunas of the HDZ government, 28 million kuna on a company that is mostly owned by workers. And it's an excellent move from our government to decide from the reserve to help your company, and you've only done circus and used crowds for your politics and for your election promotion. It was your election promotion, not ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80506	Otherwise, as to how I react to certain corrections, replicas, and whether I should warn, not mentioned, etc. You know what, it's gonna take me two more days in this regard, so I can keep some of my own way as I've mostly run the Parliament for these four years, so hold on these two days. No one's gonna die eating anything. But Mr. Winkovic, I don't think you're sick of getting this board up all the time? It's so surprising to me as a man how you don't feel sick, you know, right. But I'll give it to you because I do the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, but if you say anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80507	Article 214 was injured because a colleague said a sentence that really degrades the entire Croatian Parliament when she said HDZ spent money on workers of Đakovština. I think that money still comes from the state budget and from the budget reserve, not from black bags or from some reserve that HDZ has and which the DORH has not yet examined.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80508	I'm sorry, she didn't say HDZ, she said the HDZ-led government, so that's exactly why the government decided. Ma'am, here's the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80509	Well, because you're playing with words, I told HDZ, and later I got better and told the HDZ government. You're playing with words and using this institute to promote yourself, which is obviously from the very way you came to this House today. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80510	Thank you. We've got another replica, Mrs. Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80511	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Shuica, so here he is today the first item of the agenda is certainly a very important point concerning the project of integration of trade and transport in Luka Ploče. And everyone who spoke about it today, of course, spoke proactively and spoke positively because it is really wet not only for Croatia but also important for people in the area. But I'll just look back on what you said you'd probably see who stood for. So you see, if the Kukuriku coalition had a small minimum notion of minimum responsibility or let's say the concept of labour value, then they'd probably be here. And indeed, as some speakers have said, they would be involved in the debate. But they don't need it, they have their 5. Dude. That's their 5th. Dude's in the real world of the IMF. There's another five. Dudes who in some other parties are thinking of joining them. They showed it clearly in the rule of the city of Zagreb. So in the city of Zagreb we have Holding, 10 years of SDP rule, for 10 years he has drawn money from the SDP Holding for his promotion campaign for 10 years through his candidate, Mr Bandic. When Mr. Bandic said no more, then they took over, they threw out everyone who was from other parties only SDP. Today, Holding is full of affairs, Holding owes billions of kuna to the state budget, and they're using someone else's 5. Dudes keep their mouths shut about it and, of course, heads die. They don't have an opinion on it. Well then there is the City of Zagreb Assembly. And as the president of our government said very well, so how someone will rule the entire state when they can't agree in the city once how children will go to kindergarten. Well, that's sad, that's funny, but unfortunately it's true. And here's why they're not here. There's no way they might have gone to some restaurant, again in... to finally agree on what to do. What's true is they say one thing, the other they think, and the other they'll do something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80512	Thank you. Mrs. Shuica's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80513	Mrs. twilight, of course we all spoke proactively because the theme is such that she deserves a proactive approach. But when you talk about SDPs and HNSs and others from the Kukuriku coalition who today do not want to declare these important topics, when you talk about the city of Zagreb, which we all already know what is going on in its Holding, when we talk about being full of affairs and not being able to manage kindergartens, I am talking about you except the city of Zagreb, except for the town of Sibenik, which we have heard about once again, I am warning you about the Mini Kukurik coalition that is ruling in the city of Dubrovnik. And that's a living example of how a country would rule if it came to power. I hope the citizens of this country see well, hear well, and judge themselves well.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80514	Thank you. We have another individual discussion, then one club for five minutes. Mr. Representative Stipe Gabric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80515	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. When I see how many of these guys are fighting together for Luke records, then I have to say a few words. And Mrs. Shuica's distinguished parliamentary representative said that I'm sure some people are watching this session of the Parliament because they're looking and wondering, and I got a few messages that they're sending me. Tell the Parliament upstairs that they're doing a little bit more work and that you're a little less of an empty straw. When it comes to Luka Ploca, I welcome the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 50m euros in loans to the port administration, and I welcome even more than 60m euros that Luka Ploce will make in the second phrase of equipment to make it work. These two hours and 15 minutes we've been beating replicas, constantly replicating the replica, because this is transmitted by Croatian television, I haven't heard from anyone in those two hours and 15 minutes that anyone has said the main reason why these scattered burdens are being built. There's an economic reason here that thousands of people will be hired more. The port of Ploče together with its companies has 850 people and will unfortunately not employ any more because it is high technology, because it is cranes, modern technology and so on. But most importantly, there is no former Dropulic minister here, which is ecological. Today, in the summer months, in a large part of the year when the maestral is clogged by a large part of the town of Ploč and beyond the surrounding areas so probably that dust from that coal and to Herzegovina cannot be lived, goods cannot be spread. And this is a big investment for Luka Ploče, for the Republic of Croatia, it is important because Luka Ploče has approximately 5 million tons so far. This 50m-euro investment, this loan will allow the port to increase, its capacity somewhere almost 5, and even 6 million tonnes, i.e. it will have over 10 million tonnes in total and it will be, and already the first Croatian port, and I hope by building corridor 5C that Luka Ploče will take over the very fast primate, although Kopar has moved far away, that it will take over some of the goods from Koper and perhaps someday it will become the first port in the Adriatic because it has the possibility of expanding. And I would ask before I finish asking for a little less replica, to finish as many of these points as possible because today on the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee there were five points, very significant, and four are important and important for loans such as the next point 2, corridor 5C and others. And usually there are a lot of mayors and mayors here, so when the opposition leaves the council, then we speed up our session of the city council or the county council in record time. I think it was enough in four years, I was least saying, that there was enough replica, that there was enough correction of incorrect allegations and we could leave one day what the esteemed president of the Croatian Parliament often says, one day that after retirement will go to the clementines and olives, to go to the guests of Neretva in the harvest of Mandarin, we have a nice time one of what experts say, many come, team building in the Neretva Valley. I think it would be very good, if we could cut this down a little bit to finish as many points as possible and what Mr. President of the Parliament has said, two days to spare it to pass as soon as possible, that four years has been enough and that we end it in a cultural and dignified way, not hats, shoes, sandals, tamburice, left-right, Rijeka, the city of Rijeka, the city of Dubrovnik. I don't think there's any city in Rijeka or the city of Metkovic or the city of Dubrovnik, there's only the city of Ploca... Thank you very much. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] [[Intruder Buric: And brooches didn't bother, did they.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80516	Thank you. I'll just add that whoever comes to the harvest won't leave empty-handed. And now we have a replica, Mrs. Dubravka Shuica.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80517	I had to answer the line. The first reason was because the esteemed representative said that we were beating up empty straw. I simply don't accept such a qualification, we didn't beat up empty straw, but we told our citizens what it was about and I think it's quite clear to you. And you yourself got involved in that so-called. The simple fact that you've come forward for the word. I don't think that was correct on your part. Secondly, as far as economic development is concerned, we said that it was precisely economically important to reason and increase the market and I spoke personally about the development of technology and that so many employees would not be able to get a job precisely because of this modern technology. Of course, I didn't mention biology, and I'll give you that. And as for the team of buildings, I accept the team building and I can't wait for you to call us.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80518	Answer, Mr. Stipe Gabric. It won't, okay. We have another replica. Mr. Boris Matkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80519	Thank you, Mr. President. My Stipe dear, my colleague, my neighbor and friend, it is not true that none of us here talked about the real reasons, or it is not true that we beat empty straw. We've talked here about a subject that's very significant, and I've spoken personally about economic justification, but if you want to listen to a phonogram, you can listen to me mentioning the protection of that space that's very important between Ploč, Metkovic and Vrgorec, you should have listened to it if you've listened, because all we've been saying is in the interest of the citizens of our entire micro-region and beyond. And in any case, I support you here as I support this harvest because you mentioned the problem not only of mandarin but of grapes in Vrgorec that no one can read. And as for these others you mentioned, which are not here, which should not be discussed, I think it is very important to attend a debate on the topic of the interest of a micro-region, but also of the particular interest of the Republic of Croatia as Luka Ploče. Avoid talking about the subject and say that it should be done as soon as possible because they are not there and compare it with our city council, we cannot do it to a friend. You have to say "pop pop, and Bob Bob," that's what I thought, and in this part, I certainly support you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80520	Thank you very much. And finally, five minutes on behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80521	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian National Assembly, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the law on, that is, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Guarantee Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, or as someone said the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which knows the obvious English language of the dish, and for the purpose of expanding, or financing the extension of the project of integration of trade and transport at the port of Ploče, with the final proposal of the law. The HDSSB club, though perhaps some think that we would be skeptical of this legislative proposal, will accept this bill, to say, to cut short about the port, about the expansion of the port of Ploca. Namely, the VC corridor, which starts in the capital of Ukraine Kiev, then goes through Hungary Budapest to our Slavonia, enters Baranja, and through Osijek, Djakova, Sredenac and Svilaj comes to the Sava River, then enters the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that road corridor which therefore extends from Ukraine that has 50 million inhabitants, Hungary with about 10, 11 million inhabitants, Croatia with only 4.3 and Bosnia and Herzegovina with about 4 million inhabitants, gives the port of Ploče in view of all these circumstances, gives great chances exactly in how here and writes the integration of trade and transport. Luka Ploče I would be happy to reach those 10 million tons that my colleague, Jambo, spoke of, I would like to see him in a pirate's Neretva costume here and in the papals, and which are being carried there whether in that part of Herzegovina, my Herzegovina, too, so the port of Ploče, which during the war given the war circumstances in Bosnia and Herzegovina and given the difficult traffic direction of our highway towards the south, was indeed in a difficult situation, but here today this Law on Loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development gets a great chance. I must say that this Government of the Republic of Croatia has indeed spent huge resources in ports. We know that here we have also voted the Law on the financing of the Adriatic coast drain system with over a billion euros in loans, and you see this second item of the agenda that should have been on the confirmation of the contract with the European Bank for a project to complete the VC corridor today has been downloaded from the agenda how much information I have received, and I don't know when we're going to discuss it, and in this project there are three and a half kilometers of road from Svidenac to Svilaj and half of the bridge on the Sava River, so I don't know what this is about. Although it is in that part of 12 and a halfkm of road, highways from Ploč to Metkovic and border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in the latter. Today I say it, and Mr. Secretary, it's not the agenda point. If it's tomorrow, it'll be fine. All in all, it is good to invest in such projects and facilities, but I would love it if the ports on our rivers, so the inner waters, as it is said officially and literaryly, or in this constituencies, so the ports on the inner waters and Sisak, and Slavonski Brod and Slavonski Šamac and ports in Osijek also get, or count on them with significant means, such as here for ports which, and the money invested, and still invests with our voice, the voice of the HDSSB without opposition, therefore the river, or sea ports that have already been built, starting with Galženica, Rava, Dubrovnik, Sibenik, we also raised our hand for this legislation on the Sibenik port, so we have no objection to the construction of our Dalmatia, but what is being invested in Slavonia and on river crums according to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80522	Thank you. We have one correction, Mr. Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80523	Thank you, Mr. President. So here is my colleague Grubisic's information that the debate on the second point means the final proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a project to complete the VC corridor tomorrow, we will have the opportunity to discuss here all of us Slavons say what we think about this project. You know that the value of the project is 150 million euros, you know I believe that it's part of a 60 million-euro loan, and that's exactly what we're going to have to say about tomorrow, and I think it's not such project crumb compared to other projects in the Republic of Croatia, because a whole series of such projects in these four years we've had the opportunity to support here, we've had the opportunity to be open and finish work on individual projects, and I believe that tomorrow we will support this proposal together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80524	Mr. Grubisic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Okay, thank you. This is how I conclude the debate on this agenda point. As you've already heard on the proposal's request tomorrow we'll start a working day with this agenda point, which is actually an integral part of what we discussed today, because it's just a follow-up, a follow-up, and not just to Kiev, but also to the Baltic. So I'm looking far beyond that, but well, I mean that in the debate we can, but anyway it's one of the projects that continues, actually that are complementary, and we're going to discuss them. It can't be fixed for me right now, there's no business opportunity, but in the morning we continue at 9:30 with this agenda point. We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the additional financing of the "Integration of Trade and Transport" project in Luka Ploče, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 896. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the additional financing of the "Integration of Trade and Transport" project in Luka Ploče. Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80527	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The first Foreign Law was adopted in 2003 and started to apply in 01.01.2004. After that, we have two amendments, and when there was further harmonisation with European acquis and directives, we have found that we should change more than 60% of the existing articles so that the MUP has proposed a brand new Foreign Law. Therefore, the reason for the adoption of this law is to comply with the acquis and the European directives, above all with Regulation No. 810/2009. of 19 July 2009 establishing the Law of the Visa Community, the new legal instruments which entered into force on 5 April 2010, and which regulates the procedure for issuing single visas. In addition to Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006, the Commission concluded that the measures The European Parliament and the Council of 9 July 2008 on the visa information system and the exchange of data between Member States on short-term visas and Regulation (EC) No 562/2006. The European Parliament and the Council of 15 March 2006 establishing a Community law on rules for the movement of persons across the Schengen Borders Code. In the area of criminalising illegal employment and abandonment measures, Directive 2008/115. on common standards and practices of Member States relating to the return of persons of third countries whose stay is illegal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the E.Z. laying down minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers employing illegally staying third-country nationals. And in the field of labour and status regulation, Directive 96/71. The European Parliament and the Council on the deployment of workers in the framework of the provision of services, Council Directive 2004/38. of 29 April 2004 on the rights of Union citizens and members of their families on freedom of movement and residence in the area of a Member State and Council Directive 2009/50. of 25.05.2009 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of hiring a highly qualified workforce. So these were the regulations with which the legislation was harmonised and the directives. In short, I will only make the most important changes and additions in content. The draft law redefines the types of visas and their characteristics in line with the EU acquis. The biggest newspaper in the area of visas is the introduction of an appeal institute for a decision to refuse a visa, then the amendment to the part of the law that prescribes the employment of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia relates to the issue of a single permit for stay and work. Then, as some jobs are specific to their character or the duration of their execution, the current solution will be kept that a foreigner can perform certain tasks for 30, 60 and 90 days only on the basis of a certificate of application. The proposal for a new law is particularly recognised by foreign investors, i.e. foreigners working in companies that are the promoters of investment measures that regulate work and stay in a simpler way. In relation to the applicable law, the conditions for issuing a residence permit and working for foreigners performing key business in a commercial company have been changed because it has been observed in practice that this possibility is being misused. Now we have offered solutions that will prevent this abuse. In particular, provisions relating to deployed workers who will work in the Republic of Croatia in the context of cross-border provision of services for employers established in the territory of the European Economic Area are laid down. In order to comply with Directive 2009/50. Introduce so-called "Blue Cards" unique residence and work permit. Detailed provisions relating to the conditions for the approval of permanent stay and an extended circle of persons who may be granted permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia before meeting the requirements of 5 years of legal stay on 8 October 1991. the years had a registered residence in the Republic of Croatia and returned to the Republic of Croatia. In the chapter of the law which provides for the entry, stay and work of citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their family, the provisions are further in line with the legal acquis of the EU. In the chapter of the law on measures to leave the country, categories of foreigners who enjoy special protection are defined. The draft law sets out the regulatory provisions which elaborate on employers' obligations not to employ third-country nationals who do not have a valid residence and work permit and sanctions for employers who are used by the work of such foreigners. In short, these are the most significant changes and content and normative in relation to compliance with the acquis directives. This law is widespread, we have brought it into line with the representatives of the European Commission and with all other competent ministries and we propose that it be adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80528	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80529	Just to say, I'm sorry, that the Proposer accepts the amendments of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80530	Thank you. Do the work bodies want reporters? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms. Ana Lovrin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80531	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The HDZ Club will support the proposal of the Foreign Act with the final draft law. Namely, this law defines and regulates the area of entry, movement, stay, work and conditions of work of foreigners and the rights of deployed workers in the Republic of Croatia. This area is now governed by the Foreign Law, which has been in force since 1 January 2008. It was changed during 2009 to comply with some EU directives, i.e. Croatian laws, and was then fully in line with the European acquis. However, during the implementation, it was firstly demonstrated that certain provisions of the European acquis were not in the most difficult way to enter into our Croatian legislation or that a more precise definition of certain provisions was needed, and also, as we heard in the meantime, new legal acts were adopted at European Union level and further harmonisation with the European acquis was needed. So this final bill, which is before us, is about a very large law that has slightly less than 250 articles. Many amendments were also needed, and I would like to welcome the proposing's decision to go with the whole new text to better address those who will need to apply it. So this is now consistent with me counting 22. European regulations, directives, resolutions and recommendations. So these are all European acts in the field of visas, stays, measures to leave the country, the work of foreigners, the work of deployed foreigners, and special chapters relating to the entry, stay and work of citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, the work of third-country nationals as highly qualified workers, the sanctioning of employers who are used by the work of foreigners who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia, so these are some of the newspapers introduced in this proposal law. As we have heard from the promoters, this proposal for a law is subject to redefining the types of visas and their characteristics, so it is the visas that can be issued up to three months within a six-month period and the newspaper is the possibility for these visas for the Republic of Croatia to issue diplomatic missions and consular offices of other countries with which, of course, the Republic of Croatia has a bilateral representation contract and that a commercial indirect or external service provider participates in the issue process. Also, what seems important to me is that this law introduces a single visa information system for the Republic of Croatia where all data on denied visas, cancelled, extended visas, will be stored in one place, so all information will always be available in one place. It is also an important paper, which is in accordance with the Law on administrative procedure of introducing an appeal institute for a decision on refusal of a visa, so it must be delivered to a foreigner in writing, and the same conditions for the collection of biometric data are introduced, the applicant and this request for a short-term visa. Significant changes to the existing law relate to the issue of a single permit for the stay and work of a stranger, so that is to be issued in accordance with the annual quota established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia or beyond that quota annually in specific cases. Issuing such a unique permit will significantly speed up and simplify the procedure for both the foreigner who comes to work in Croatia and the employer who hires him. As some of the tasks are specific to their character, the performance or duration of their performance will be maintained, the solution will be that a foreigner may carry out certain tasks for up to 30 or 90 days only on the basis of an application certificate. What I find interesting in this bill is that foreign investors or foreigners who work in commercial societies who are holders of incentive measures for investment, and then are more easily regulated by their stay and work in the Republic of Croatia, compared to the current law, are also changed the conditions of issuing a residence permit and work for foreigners who perform key jobs in companies or foreign owners, which contribute to the promotion of the economy if they are over 51%, and are then defined in particular the term of key jobs, as the Secretary of State has said, there have been a lot of abuses in this area and these amendments of the law are determined by what is considered to be key jobs, therefore, these must be certain operations of management or management of business processes and must also have such legal persons and Croatian citizens and have a certain amount of pay to be paid to the persons on key businesses, so that there are no one person who has a key business in law to do so. In particular, provisions relating to deployed workers who will work in the Republic of Croatia in the framework of cross-border services and the employer's seat is in the area of the European Economic Area, therefore this is also in line with the European Directive uniquely throughout the European Economic Area. A completely new chapter, as we have heard, has also been introduced, which determines the status or issue of licences, residence and work to highly qualified third-country nationals in the form of a European Blue Card. Therefore, the law now prescribes exactly what is considered to be a highly qualified citizen, under which conditions it is issued this European Blue Card, and it will at the same time be valid as approval and residence and work. The conditions for payment of wages within a certain range of activities for those highly qualified workers and the conditions under which these third-country nationals may also change and transfer to countries within the European Union have been established. There are also more detailed detailed provisions relating to the conditions for the approval of a permanent stay, so as we have heard, an extended circle of persons who may be granted permanent stay prior to meeting the requirements of 5 years of legal stay. This spreads to persons who were on October 8, '91. they had a registered residence in the Republic of Croatia, and users of the return, renewal or housing programme and returned to the Republic of Croatia and a child whose parents, at the time of birth, have an approved permanent stay or child of a single parent who has been granted a permanent return. Also in the chapter of the law which provides for the entry, stay and work of citizens of a Member State of the European Economic Area and members of their family, the provisions are further in line with the acquis. In addition, given the daily improvement of the protection of human rights in the European space in the head of the law on measures to leave the country, categories of foreigners who enjoy special protection in the application of these measures for leaving Croatia are defined, and then, in particular, to persons with disabilities, pregnant women, victims of violence, minors, single mothers with underage children may, or appropriate extended time of accommodation at the Acceptable Centre for Foreigners, and the Institute of Accommodation has been introduced until the decision to banishment as a preparatory accommodation has been taken and special protection of minors in the coercive distance procedure and a special procedure for foreigners who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia, but have been granted to stay in a Member State of the European Economic Area. What is also important in relation to compliance with the European acquis is therefore the minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers employing third-country nationals who are illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia but who are also in line with other EU countries. Therefore, provisions laying down the obligations of employers not to employ state-owned, hence a strict provision that they should not employ third-country nationals who do not have a valid residence permit and work and sanctions of employers who are used by the work of foreigners who are illegally staying in the country and also the obligation of the employer to apply for his work permit where he or she is also unexcrupulous if there is a work permit but if he knew that he or she is inadequate and also that such employer is obliged to report to the police authority any employment of foreigners. Here and finally, since this legislative proposal fully aligns this matter with the European acquis, since there are more detailed issues on the work of foreigners within the quota and outside the quota, and these more detailed provisions also prevent the abuse of the use of certain institutes provided for in this law, since the procedure for both the employer and the worker is simplified, since this law is fully in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act and introduces further provisions on the protection of human rights, and particularly vulnerable categories of citizens, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80532	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDSSB club will not support this legislative proposal on foreigners. They will not support it for the reasons that there are numerous objections from various associations, as well as from the Croatian World Congress. In fact, it's a matter of specificity to say about Art. 2nd and 2nd, which says, a person, so in Article 2(1), says, "The stranger is a person who is not a Croatian citizen," says Article 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "A person without citizenship is a foreigner that no state considers to be a citizen in accordance with its national legislation." What's weird, Mr. Markovanovic? I'll tell you. Therefore, this Act on Foreigners, although bearing the E or European code, should be aligned with the Croatian strategy outside the Republic of Croatia and with the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which you voted in the Croatian Parliament the other day. When I mentioned the Croatian World Congress or Croatian World Congress there it was written that it was still in '92. in Article 1, the following paragraph is added: The law on foreigners wrote "Croatians with foreign citizenship or without citizenship are not considered foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law". With this bill of law, I'd like to say new or P.Z.E. No. 897 it's clear that it's being abolished or dodeed. So every Croat is without citizenship, for example. From BiH in terms of the provisions of this new law, a foreigner. That's how it works out. Therefore, the HDSSB club, Mr State Secretary, will submit an amendment to Article 2(2) and add another item that reads: "Croatians with foreign citizenship or without citizenship are not considered foreigners in terms of the provisions of this law." Which is why it is important, so it is also important for the extensions above all of the Croatian World Congress and then some other institutions, starting with the church and beyond to facilitate the return of emigrants from the world. To ensure all Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vojvodina, Kosovo, etc. the possibility of employment without asking for work permits. And Croatian citizenship could be obtained by Croatian emigrants, their descendants in general, but Croatian citizenship was also given to those who really shouldn't or who were said criminals, mobsters and everyone else. Those who should have quite a number did not get that citizenship, and these are numerous Croats from the diaspora and others. Here I am announcing an amendment to this legislative proposal, and unless this amendment is adopted by the HDSB club, there will be no vote on this Foreign Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80534	Thank you. Dear Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, please welcome on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80535	Thank you very much. Just for the sake of precision and truth, this law has not changed anything about the status of persons who do not have Croatian citizenship, namely, the old law in Article 2 says, "In the sense of this law, a foreigner is considered a person who is not a Croatian citizen." An identical definition of what a stranger is. We didn't cancel anything, we didn't change anything. As for the rights of Croats, Croatians can obtain Croatian citizenship under the preferential procedure, and under the Law on Croats outside Croatia are prescribed mechanisms that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia have a series of privileged ways of staying and working in the Republic of Croatia. With this law, the position and status of Croats outside the Croatian state who do not have Croatian citizenship has not deteriorated.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80536	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80537	Mr. Secretary of State, that first sentence of yours, if I've heard correctly, that nothing has been lifted and nothing has changed. Well, that's the thing that should have been lifted and changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80538	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Ivo Grbić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80539	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we are discussing the proposal for a law on foreigners, with the final proposal for a law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred to in the procedure for the adoption of an emergency procedure, since it is a law that is in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. The Republic of Croatia has regulated the area of entry, stay and work of foreigners by adopting the Foreigners Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2008. The implementation of the law has shown that some of the provisions of European Union law implemented in our legislation require more precise and clearer provisions. The existing law should also be brought into line with the new legal acts of the European Union, regulations and directives. Therefore, more than justifiable is the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the adoption of a new law. There are numerous newspapers in this proposal. I'll look back at the most significant newspapers that are proposed, and they're contained in the next. Changes regarding visas are proposed, visa types and visa characteristics are redefined, visa options are abolished, diplomatic and consular offices of other countries are given the possibility of issuing visas under conditions that they have a bilateral representation agreement with the Republic of Croatia. An appeal shall be made for a decision on the refusal of a visa. The Committee of the Foreign Ministry decides on complaints about the decision to refuse a visa. I would say a Croatian visa information system that will contain storage and processing of data on visa requirements. Common standards and practices of Member States relating to the return of persons of third countries whose stay is illegal are proposed. In the field of work and employment of foreigners, an authorisation for staying and working within and outside the annual quota shall be introduced. The permit to stay and work is also an authorisation for temporary stay. The residence permit is issued by the police department. The proposal provides a simpler way of regulating the residence and work of foreigners who own or work in companies, and they are the promoters of investment measures. The proposal elaborates provisions laying down conditions for the approval of permanent stay. Provisions are proposed governing the entry, stay and work of citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families. Conditions shall be laid down for the submission of applications for the authorisation of residence and work, i.e. European Blue Cards to highly qualified third-country nationals, as well as standards for sanctions and measures against employers employing third-country nationals who are illegally staying. This proposal also complies with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. In view of this, as well as the fact that the proposal addresses extremely important issues of interest for the Republic of Croatia in order to comply with European Community rules, I will personally support the adoption of the Foreign Law as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80540	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80541	In any case, it is important to stress that this law is very important, and it is in principle more regulated and harmonised with the European acquis, and especially in the field of labour rights, workers' wages, means the same working conditions within the European Union, but also as regards the work that you have said to a third-country national who is employed in the Republic of Croatia. Otherwise, I must remind myself that every year the Government of the Republic of Croatia approves the issue of work permits for foreigners who have been granted residence in the Republic of Croatia and this number of permits is moving somewhere, if since 2008, it falls towards 2011, then the government approved 8000 397 work permits for foreigners to work in Croatia, 2009. 6 thousand 948, so for this year there are 5 thousand and 300 work permits, and I must say that most of these foreigners who are authorised to work in Croatia work in tourism and catering. Normally, that annual quota does not include permits issued to daily migrants, so these are people who are actually returning to their residences. This business permit is also well regulated and better regulated, these are business permits received by persons established by companies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and engaged in business activities of interest for the development of the economy. It is also important to highlight the penalties prescribed for such companies and employers who do not have reported foreigners, they are very high and range from 50 to 100 thousand, or if they do not have a stay registered they range from 70 to 150 thousand kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80542	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80543	Certainly, a colleague should stress that this law was adopted in 2007 and entered into force on 1 January 2008 and that a number of European directives have practically been adopted to date, and precisely given the acceleration of the process and the improvement of the residence and work of foreigners, this law stresses that. And I agree with you that it's very interesting to allow one if I can say greater... for labour drive, certainly under quotas, but also beyond quotas under special conditions. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80544	Thank you. We continue with the debate of the individual, and we have the guest, Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80545	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In this new proposal for a Law on Foreigners which we have received on benches, I must stress that the law is very comprehensive and that it is consistent with almost all the laws concerning this issue. This bill regulates the area of entry and stay and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, as during the implementation of the applicable law adopted in 2007 it was found that some provisions are not the best solution and that amendments to the provisions are needed, but also more precise definitions. Similarly, a number of legal acts governing the area have been adopted at European Union level at the same time, and the Republic of Croatia as a future Member State has an obligation to bring its legislation in line with. Therefore, this bill further harmonizes the Croatian legislation, i.e. the provisions of the European acquis documents. This proposal for a law first defines the types of visas and their characteristics, abolishs the possibility of issuing a visa on a common travel document, stipulates that persons not registered as travel document users submit specific requirements and lays down minimum conditions that must be met in order for the visa application to be accepted. The possibility for visas from the Republic of Croatia to issue diplomatic and consular offices of other countries with which the Republic of Croatia has concluded a bilateral representation contract, as well as that a commercial intermediary as an external service provider participates in the process of issuing visas. The largest newspaper in the area of visas is the introduction of an appeal institute for a decision on the refusal of a visa to be delivered to a foreigner in writing in a prescribed form. The appeal is scheduled to be decided by the foreign affairs ministry. Further to this law, detailed provisions relating to the conditions for the approval of permanent stay have been elaborated, and an extended category which, prior to meeting the requirements of 5 years of legal stay, can be approved for permanent stay in the Republic of Croatia. Thus, permanent stay can be approved by persons who have an uninterrupted three years of temporary stay in the Republic of Croatia, and in the status of refugees were at least 10 years old and persons who were on October 8, 1991. have registered residence in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is defined, a short-term visa and its characteristics are defined, so why is it issued, how many times can its validity be entered, which are of course in line with the Visa Act which, among other things, provides for the existence of so-called ‘Visa Act’. an additional period of 15 days which defines the possibility of issuing a visa for 5 years with certain conditions. In Chapter 10, it contains provisions on the entry, stay and work of citizens of the European Economic Area and their families. Those provisions are in line with the Council of Europe Directive, on the right of citizens of the Union and members of their families, on freedom of movement and residence in the territory of a Member State. It should be stressed that this directive applies to citizens of the European Union, but that the provisions of this law will also apply to citizens of members of the family of Croatian citizens. Unlike the conditions for granting a stay to be met by a third-country national, a European Union citizen has certain privileges and only minimum conditions should be met to ensure that he is granted the right to free movement and stay in the territory of a Member State. Freedom of movement of persons of the citizens of a Member State is one of the fundamental rights. It is important to note that the provisions of this Chapter apply from the date of entry into membership of the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this law regulates the issue of administrative inspection supervision of the implementation of this law. This proposal shall be laid down by the power of administrative inspection of the implementation of this law in the section relating to the work of foreigners and the work of the deployed worker in a way that the supervision is carried out by the authority of the state administration within its jurisdiction. What we have not had so far been defined in the existing law, which is the obligation to pay a public fee to an employer who employs foreigners or is used by their work if it is a foreigner who is illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia. Thus far, this has not been settled by this existing law, it is now prescribed that the obligation to make public payments as a cash amount in kunas containing all taxes and contributions to compulsory social insurance that the employer would have paid if the stranger had been legally declared. So he had a stay. Penalties are also prescribed in case of non-compliance with certain provisions of the law. A misdemeanor can't be initiated, so it's prescribed when it can't be. If three years go by, then no criminal proceedings can be initiated. And so what I would like to stress, which is that Article 236 provides for the possibility for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prescribe reciprocity in relation to the employment of citizens of EU Member States and members of their families. So if a member of the EU does not hire our citizens for real and real reasons, so for no real reason or reduction, then our Government can use the right of reciprocity in that case. Finally, for the implementation of this law, more than 5 million kunas are foreseen in 2012 and 2013 which will be used to bring this law to life in the best possible way. So I will support the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80546	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Krunoslav Markovnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80547	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear secretary and associate. So here's when we started talking about why this law doesn't listen to people, but I think in this law everything that's been objecting to this time is very well done. In particular, I'm going to look back a little bit on articles 72, like, 73, so license 76, here's the 77th, say, article 77, 78. - because it was in article 77, 78 that they were actually written to prevent all those abuses, the abuses they were. If we're talking about foreigners, normally it's in our interest to have as many investors here as possible, so let them open up workshops, let them open shops, let them do whatever they want here, but on the condition that it's not at the expense of the state. And it's just a lot of stuff that's been done to the harm of the state. Because the key people as mentioned in the article, we're used to talking to managers, it just turns out that most of the employees are the managers. To avoid all kinds of obligations and things like that, and these articles have been assigned to them. So they have to hire a certain number of people, they have to pay salaries, not minimally as they've done so far to avoid taxes, but at least average wages. So these articles, as well as a series of other articles, are really arranged and well governed by the Foreign Law. Normally, by entering Europe, we're adapting all the laws that should still be compatible in these cases, which is more similar to not looking at anything, but in any case, it's good to prevent any abuse, abuse because the budget is finally losing here, and the number of employees is decreasing. And let's just remember the case, there's been a lot of shouting around the INA, where it turns out that not even some of the licenses came out, so they did come out, they didn't come out. So in order to stop all of this and prevent the need for good control of everything that is issued, as well as payment, the maximum payment of what they must give under the law. And in this way, the conditions for investment will not be reduced, but in any case, different abuses will be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80548	Thank you. It is up to the individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am also involved in this debate as one of the MPs who will support this bill. However, since there have been talks here on some issues, which are not the subject of this bill for the sake of the Croatian public and in order to clarify, I think it is very important to mention them and highlight them or even better to make it clear. So, when it comes to Croats, Croats are members of the Croatian people, regardless of their status, whether they live outside the Republic of Croatia, whether they live as Croats, sovereign people in BiH, Croats as an independent, national minority in 12 European countries or Croats of emigrants in different countries of the world, then it is clear that this bill does not cause any harm to these people, nor is their right to question them. That is the most important and very clear thing to say. On the other hand, it is also very important to say, but also because of the public, that we last week passed the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia which in a certain way regulates certain issues that may be of interest to Croats outside Croatia in such a way that, if in some circumstances Croatians, a man who lives outside the Republic of Croatia wants to be equal, with equal rights to any other Croatian in the Republic of Croatia, in which way he can achieve this even if he does not have Croatian citizenship. So, in this bill of law, we came up with an institute of status for Croats without citizenship. What exactly is this about? If Croatia lives in Germany and for any reason it must have, accept a particular service that is related to the property of citizenship, in this case Germany, it has no right simultaneously to have two citizenships, dual citizenship, it cannot also have Croatian citizenship and citizenship in Germany. In this context, therefore, that we have not passed this law which we have passed and that we have not brought into line with the gentleman sitting here as Mr. Secretary of State and his assistant and certainly the one headed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia who has taken care of it then our man Croat, when he returns to the Republic of Croatia, would be treated as a foreigner in a certain way. However, we have made a decision in a way that we have not created any problem for that person, nor will it have in Germany. So he will have the status of Croats without Croatian citizenship and will not be considered as a foreigner in the sense of our Law. That's one thing. And second thing, to all our people in the world whether they have Croatian citizenship or not, we have made it possible to have a Croatian card. With this card we have shown people welcome to Croatia, it is a card that will open the door of Croatia to people, it is a card that will allow our people no matter where they come from in the Republic of Croatia, access to everything they have access to and people who live here, normally in a way that will be prescribed by certain rules and in accordance with this law. These are the two institutes that we have introduced to actually resolve the issue of Croatians living outside Croatia in Croatia, to open the Republic of Croatia to Croats, to enable access to their descendants, their children to come to Croatia, to study there, live there, eventually to stay there if they decide to do so. Therefore, these are very important things, and perhaps to quote some of our people in the world who have played a very important role in Croatian emigration, who have assessed this proposal for a law that I have spoken literally in historical terms. For example, one of our great priests, a man who has done a lot in the unity and preservation of Croatian emigration and community with the Republic of Croatia Mr. Šito Čorić. During the war he acted as president of the Croatian World Congress, he says: "In a very difficult situation you have succeeded in that I am grateful to you, I am grateful to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am grateful to everyone. This is a great historic moment for all Croats in the world.". No matter how much the grips in the world are aware of this document that I'm talking about, then, it's really revolutionary, why? Because so far we haven't had any basis to regulate that question. This law that I am talking about when compared to everything that seemed and might seem, it is indeed one basis for establishing correct relations and will be on behalf of not only the Republic of Croatia but also of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina members of the Croatian national minority in the European countries and Croatia in emigration. Ladies and gentlemen, it is still very important to point out that this proposal for a law on foreigners is a proposal that solves in a certain way some other doubtful situation, i.e. issues. So, a very common question, Croatian citizenship is a question that many people, want to achieve this status, want to have Croatian citizenship and resort to methods that are unacceptable. Very often, people make false statements, wrong statements, are wrongly declared to achieve that citizenship. This is absolutely not the interest of the Republic of Croatia. From the point of view of Croats outside Croatia who wish to have Croatian citizenship, such people are very often an obstacle to the exercise of their rights. Why? Because our services deal for days with certain people who actually do some abuses and thus slow down the process of achieving even Croatian citizenship and those whose rights are not questionable and the right to be realised. I can say with full responsibility that this Ministry of State with Minister and Secretary of State Buconjic has done a great deal to resolve these issues that our people who undoubtedly have the right to Croatian citizenship have practically achieved this right in an optimal time and are not exactly the same speculation that must be achieved not knowing how many years to achieve some Croatian citizenship, of course a certain procedure should pass, that the procedure should respect the legal conditions that should be respected and that it is not at all a question of whether anyone who has the right to have that citizenship will normally get it and will normally not get it from one who does not have the right to do so. even if he was, beware, here I say it responsibly, even though he is a member of the Croatian people, which generations if Croatian culture fails, he is not interested in Croatian or doing any of the benefits of the Republic of Croatia, so that he would have the right to have someone who does not have other people who do everything else that I've talked about. I think that it is a matter of citizenship, a question of foreign status, a question not only symbolic but very important and very seriously should be approached in this context, above all, I look forward to the fact that we have passed that Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia or the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside Croatia, but I also welcome this bill and I do not see any conflict between these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80550	Thank you. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic. An individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr Secretary of State, I will talk about the amendment to Article 2(2) in the light of that debate I had on behalf of the Club, because I believe that the proposed amendment will allow representatives of the Croatian people without citizenship to be allowed unlimited stay in the Republic of Croatia and work without a work permit. What my colleague Bagarić said to me was very pleased to realize how he explained and explained it well, but I am afraid that the Croatian card he speaks of for Croats who are without Croatian citizenship is actually a vision in Welcomen to Croatia of one more tourist importance than what is important to people who are Croats outside Croatian citizenship. It is not a small number of Croats who, in order to preserve above all jobs, were forced to ask for a leave from Croatian citizenship and thus actually became foreigners. It is a particular case of Germany which does not recognise dual citizenship, and they have accepted German citizenship for a good part of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, not just from the territory of BiH or other parts of Croatia. Furthermore, the resolution of requests for Croatian citizenship must be recognised for a very long, quite long time, we know from many cases. And during that time, members of the Croatian people who have moved to Croatia must not work because they are considered foreigners and can only stay for three months if their request for achievement or enrolment in Croatian citizenship is resolved. And if it is not resolved within three months of this law, they must say what the Dalmatians will say. Furthermore, Croatia does not have diplomatic representations in many countries or in several countries where Croats live, and then they submit demands eventually when they arrive in the Republic of Croatia. Here's the latest case where our general and the hero of the Homeland War who has a problem with personal documentation and we know how this is going, since 20.8., General Branimir Glavas and the hero of the Homeland War have not been resolved. Furthermore, the second and third generations of descendants of Croatian emigrants have a problem proving their belonging to the Croatian people, and the descendants of Croatian emigrants born outside the so-called "Immigrants". The Avno borders, therefore, Croats who were born beyond the avionic borders, so in BiH, Srijem, etc. Boki, according to... interpretations of the MUP do not meet the conditions for obtaining citizenship on the basis of Article 11. Law on Croatian citizenship. For example. The Tihomir Nujic case and his four children, specifically. All EU countries differ from foreigners. So, for example. In Italy, the Italian who moved from Istria to Trieste and Croats who moved from Istria to Trieste was not treated equally. One more piece of information. Ten. September 2008. In years, a joint interparliamentary meeting of the European Parliament with representatives of the Parliament and of the Macedonian Assembly was held, which confirmed that the European Parliament respects subsidiarity. Therefore, each parliament, including the Republic of Croatia, has no dictatorship, but can handle this matter independently as the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia responds. So there is no EU dictatorship regarding this matter. Members of the native people, both Germany and Italy and Slovenia and Hungary and a number of other countries. That is why we have invested this amendment, it has already been given in the procedure so that we will also achieve our intention and the thought that Croats without Croatian citizenship are not treated and not only have the right to Croatian card and other rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80552	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go. And Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Grubisic, I understand what you are talking about and I think that in the work of our committee where I have had the honour of being president of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and you have had the honour of being vice president, so we did not have any problems in communication in cooperation, etc. On the other hand, from that position and from the position of you as a representative who has acted in that capacity, we must be clear. So, you know that we passed a law that I spoke about earlier, the Final Proposal for the Law of Relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which actually solves all these questionable issues, although so far there have been. So we solved them. How? And Article 41 says: "People who have recognised the status of Croats without citizenship within the meaning of this law will not be considered foreigners in achieving benefits in the field of school education, higher education, employment, competitions, scholarships, even health insurance, which will be regulated by special acts. In this context, the minister in charge will adopt certain rules in the exercise of these rights." Therefore, our proposal for a law that you know has also been supported by our Prime Minister, or that it is the government, and that it is the government's document, we have resolved these issues. I end up with you and as Vice-President at the end of this term and all of our colleagues here at the presence of my colleague, Za Bosnjak, also has Ivanka Roksandić, and here is Ivo Andrić Lužanski, who are not here now, so to the colleagues who participated in the Committee's work at the end of the term I thank you for your cooperation, thanks to you for also supporting these drafts of the law. I'm sorry. You could tell me why you weren't at the vote because you didn't have to be, since you've been giving all the time to support this. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] I think this is good for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80554	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80555	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't give my support as you know it yourself, Mr. Bagaric, because I wasn't at that session when the board made the final decision on that. You know how he brought the Committee on Croats outside Croatia. And I wasn't at the vote, and you know why I wasn't at the vote because it was also a blackmail of a certain kind to be here at the vote. Therefore, do not misread HDSSB's decisions. As for the matter we discussed, he would not want to, nor would I have time to reproduce everything that was said then, there are phonograms, so let it be seen who stood for it. The HDSB Club advocates greater rights than this Foreign Law offers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80556	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80557	I apologize to my colleague Grubisic, but I had to use this institute. For what, because you were just talking about something that I wasn't talking about. So I know that you didn't support this bill on final law-making, and I'm surprised that before that at all the sessions when we talked you were supporting and you were involved in the work and you can't deny it, it's very easy to investigate here.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80558	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80559	Therefore, which is why you did not support the final adoption of the bill, that is the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80560	Thank you very much. Your Honor, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's an abuse of the Injury Institute of Rules of Procedure. You didn't say which article, you didn't mention, and I don't think we should do that. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80561	Mr. Vice President, you yourself said this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so here I was, in that sense, trying to say because Mr. Bagaric hurt his Rules of Procedure by saying what I didn't say at all. And the other thing, I have to tell him that my opinions on the board were my opinions and opinions of the HDSSB club that didn't match, and very often with...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80562	Thank you very much. And it's also not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't do this. There's no need to do that. Replica, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80563	Dear colleague, I know that you are not this representative who disagrees with his opinion but as some here but I support these views of yours regarding this law. I would especially like to point out that at this moment when the Parliament is empty, when this end of the session slowly grows into one comedy, the tragedy of absurdity to pass such laws, the final proposal of the law on foreigners and as if we were taking more care of strangers than for example. about Croatian citizens, about Croatian generals who can't get their ID card, who can't get their passport because they obviously know a lot about what this Croatia would wake up again. On the other hand, General Branimir Glavas was imprisoned in Mostar, the same authority, and that perhaps the Ministry of Interior might be talking about the Legion, not thinking about the Foreign Legion, but thinking about that drug lord and organised crime member in Serbia, would probably have delivered him a passport before the deadline of 30 days. Well we have witnessed in many ways that almost all of the drug underground of the former country also received Croatian passports, I don't mean Afghan but just Croatian, that the Ministry of Interior is silent about it, but at the same time they got both IDs and passports. Well, here's what I'm appealing to our Home Office...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80564	Bring the hearing to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80565	One more sentence. Given that this entire government, which is the continuation of that government of captains with little vitre, other Eve Sanader, captain of the seventh class...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80566	Bring the end, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80567	To continue and issue a passport by sticking to those rapids because what is now being done is to abolish human rights to the Croatian defender, Croatian General Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80568	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80569	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic. You see things well. This week in the Croatian Parliament is really record. In four years, some 150 laws were passed, this week should be 31 in three days, so that's really absurd, you said. But as for the delivery of passports and Croatian citizenship, it went hand in hand and hat, but there were also sales of Croatian passports and it is known where and it is known to whom and it is known by whom.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80570	Thank you. Because of that, just for the sake of the public, it wasn't passed in these four years by 150 laws, but something close to 900 laws, over 900. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80571	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Foreign Law, the emergency procedure was P.Z.E. No. 887. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and MP Boro Grubisic. During the debate, the proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. And I would like the representative of State Secretary Ivica Buconjic to show himself about Mr Bora Grubisic's amendments, and this amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80572	The amendment is not accepted. When drawing up the provisions of the proposal of the Foreign Law, it was necessary to take account of the legal property of the EU under which the law must be harmonised. And EU legal acts in their application adhere to and come from the Institute of Citizenship, not nationalities. Since the proposal for a Foreign Law is in line with 22 EU legal acts, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80573	Thank you. Mr. Boro Grubisic is not present here, so I am putting this amendment to a vote that the government does not accept. Who's in? No one. He's not accepted. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Foreign Law. Let's please get involved and vote on the proposal. This proposal for a final proposal of the Foreign Law was adopted by the majority of votes, 84 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80574	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 900 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ruđer Friganovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80575	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen. It is before us the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Trade, which provides for the harmonisation of the law in accordance with the comments of the European Commission, and this is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to ensure that the services of the information society provided by the provider with a business establishment in the Republic of Croatia are satisfied in the national provisions of the Republic of Croatia which fall within the scope of the coordination of Directive 2000/31 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2000 and, in the case of regulated professions, the obligation to ensure freedom of use of commercial communications provided by a member of the regulated profession, subject to compliance with the rules of the profession, in particular with respect to independence, dignity and respect of the profession, professional secrecy and justice to the parties and other members of the profession. As regards the development of e-commerce, Croatia started with the process of creating the legal environment necessary for the successful creation and development of the information society and the process continued with the adoption of the Law on Electronic Trade of 8 November 2003. The e-commerce law regulates the provision of information society services, the responsibility of the information society service provider and the rules relating to the conclusion of an electronic contract. The law does not apply to data protection, the field of taxation, public record activity, party representation and protection of their interests against courts, gambling with monetary stakes, including lottery games, casino games, betting games, gambling games, and in accordance with the provisions of specific laws governing these areas. Information society services, in accordance with the provisions of this law, shall be considered to be services provided electronically by electronic means at the individual request of the user, in particular relating to Internet sales of goods and services, the provision of data on the Internet, internet advertising, electronic search and the possibility of searching for data and services transmitted via the electronic network, and the transmission in access to the network or storage of user data. This law lays down the rights and obligations of both the provider and the user of information society services related to the conclusion of contracts in electronic form, and the way in which the contract is concluded. The most significant categories of electronic trade use in the Republic of Croatia in terms of the business sector are travel and tourist agencies, computer dealers, computer equipment and consumer material, online bookstores and consumer electronics traders. So according to the data available in the traffic achieved, tourist agencies are still as we said leaders in this segment with 56.5% stakes, followed by trading computers and computer equipment with 13 and a half percent share, consumer electronics that participates with 9 and a half percent, while the share of online bookstores is 3.4%. According to data provided by the State Statistics Office from February this year, online purchases and sales are on the rise today and goods and services via the Internet are purchased by 31% of companies, while 23% of them offer goods and services for sale. The number of companies that make more than 50% of total sales via the Internet, banking and financial transactions via the Internet is indicative. Growth has also been recorded in the use of administrative services and the education of employees. Once again, I would like to point out, I believe all the well-known facts, which is that by applying e-commerce, we accelerate business processes, we create greater added value through reducing business costs, the economy is networked, the internal market is stronger, the overall competitiveness of the economy is increased and the public sector is created. Business processes managed by knowledge are of great importance for the Croatian economy and the public sector, especially because of the role of electronic business as a promoter of the development of the economy and the rationalisation of public administration. When it comes to positive effects, it is not only financial, but also non-financial effects such as transparency, increased sales growth... products and faster growth of cross-border trade. [[You don't understand.]] Electronic business speeds up the exchange of goods and services at local, international and global level, and it is a necessary prerequisite for creating a competitive Croatian economy and its equal participation in a global competition. Electronic business allows significant savings at the level of the state, the economy, increases transparency and leads to a reduction in the grey economy and increases the efficiency of the public sector. By signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, Croatia has made a commitment to align its legislation with EU legislation. The aim of this coordination is to develop and increase the competitiveness of the economy in the international and European markets, to protect consumers more effectively, and to further develop electronic trade as a business sector, as well as general development of electronic business in the Republic of Croatia. The adoption and application of the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade will be adapted to new market conditions and to the practice of countries with a developed economy. The implementation of the same law will be continuously monitored in line with its continuing alignment with changes in world markets, and in particular with changes in the development of new technologies, and in line with the needs of commercial practice, and the protection of the legal certainty of all stakeholders in trade, which are shareholders, employees, and ultimately consumers in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, the development of electronic business is expected to increase efficiency in the business of the service sector, which as we know is one of the main drivers of development and growth in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic trade is a harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, and provides for conditions for electronic trade in the Republic of Croatia without interference, or without obstacles. We propose that the final draft of the law be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80576	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade. We have also heard in the opening words about the importance and need to comply with the acquis of the European Union, but this is an opportunity to stress with the support of this law all the advantages and chances of electronic trade. Electronic trade is a great opportunity, but also a danger, and we must draw attention to this danger, and it is well here on behalf of the Government that a continued alignment will be needed in line with the needs and processes that are happening in society. There is no doubt that internet sales, electronic sales are speeding up the important business process, reducing costs, streamlining, and that this contributes greatly to the efficiency of entrepreneurship itself. However, it should be pointed out that this is also a great danger, and that what I am sure will be necessary in the future to further regulate the obligations of all parties, and the responsibility of the participants in that traffic, and even criminal responsibility, because there is a situation which should not happen in online sales. We have heard that many companies and 50% of their business have been transferred to online business, but there are many that are exclusively related to electronic business, to electronic commerce, there are those who only work via the Internet, and that is good when it comes to services and goods. But here's a case that recently took place on the pages of a daily list, unfortunately, because once again, a lawyer who cheated on his commissioners and buyers who paid for the goods and never delivered the goods, the media declares him a prospective Zagreb lawyer. A fraud – a prospective Zagreb lawyer. How the media paints, not just finding facts. They should condemn this behavior, not advertise it that he is so familiar with fraud that he knows best how to cheat, that he will best defend the future frauds as a lawyer and protect them best. I learned a lot about online fraud, if you have a problem contact me, I guarantee you success. Advertise – fraud. And how do those who have paid since 2009 feel and have never received the goods? How do you protect them? This law and all future, harmonisation, must be protected. There's nothing more devastating about a business relationship than a loss of trust. And how do you trust me if someone has to pay in advance in good faith that they get what they paid for and then they don't get any money back or the goods. And there's that danger of online business. How many dangers are hidden, not just of this kind, we must think about it, and we must create this in advance, and the legal framework to avoid it, so that there is not always a legal framework as a consequence of something that has happened. Let's think about something that's possible to happen negative, so we'll eliminate in advance such that it doesn't happen. Well, we can't see in any part of society that there's no fraud, that there's no, that an honest man doesn't feel bad. To come in with... and safety. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of this can be predicted and this proposal changes and the addition of the law goes in that direction and that's good. But we do know that there are no criminal measures missing, the sanctions are missing. Someone who deliberately cheats must answer. It's a frightening fact that someone broke away from his pension, from his minimum salary, from the salary he got after 5 or 6 months, that he paid for the product he needed and not to get it. We have to eliminate such dangers, we have to fight them, we have instruments to fight them, the state has a repressive apparatus to put an end to them. And no one has any more imagination than a con man. Dochim state finds a better mousefish they invent a better mouse. I can't hide, I can't, we're such a small country, we're one a little better company we can be arranged to know the names of every fraud in the Republic. And then to prevent business with such, to advance, to have a registries register. We can have that. Well, but the Employers' Association opposes whenever we have to mark something that is undesirable, who owe, who don't pay. If there was such a register, we wouldn't have introduced it like that. And there will always be not only naive, well-intentioned, so an honest man can't doubt that someone is dishonest, but when the victim is only then convinced that there are dishonest... And especially the Internet is very dangerous for abuse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How much money was taken off? How many credit cards have been misused? Today it's dangerous anything, what does the Internet do? There is protection most needed and there is a legal framework. This legal framework goes that way, it's good, and that's why the HDZ club supports it. But he says here it's not often if someone paid for something so he didn't get the goods delivered to come back. That it's rare, that we should praise it if someone returned the money, it's an economic crime so that someone doesn't pay back what he charged, and he didn't deliver the goods or the service. And we need to clearly define and treat them clearly and have instruments of repressive apparatus to such ones. It's the only way we're gonna get the country fixed up the way we're looking. And we think that we should all strive for a better, fairer Croatia in which the honest one will go forward, and the rest in the back rather than the other. We must not allow only those who have killed their conscience to move forward. We need to ensure that conscience and reason come first, not dishonesty and crime. And that's why we support this law because it will certainly contribute to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80578	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. We have one application. Dear Representative Zeljko Turk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. As it is in the introduction and in the name of the club, so it is said that one bill that is absolutely current as a topic and regardless of what it is good part and compliance with European legislation should be remembered and said in fact one of the sentences in the ordinary dictionary that speak on the subject. All of us in our lives of businessmen or any other activities we have been dealing with, go back a few years and remember the way life and work and function, and when it comes to this topic. Here is an introductory question of banking where 70, 80% of total transactions are no longer handled by the public, not by the cash registers, but by the internet route, so this type of communication. We are aware of waiting in rows a few years ago and these current situations or going to the former ZAP or FINA as it has already been called several times, so I am talking about businessmen and businesses, waiting for some money to sit down and when you will pay for something so almost daily and several times. I also point out that, and I especially underline this, given the currentity of these changes in the laws during the time and life in which we live today, but perhaps by considering further development on this subject when it comes to use, so above all, the Internet in these types of transactions, I would also say to the new explosion of the use of exactly the same as data, but such activities. And accordingly, a colleague, Marić, very well, very well noticed that every day we have to fight and deal with possible all kinds of crime and thieving on the subject, because, in general, all types of thief and thief are very clever and very often use that legal void until, first of all, the quality of the criminal provision comes to an end. So, given the expansion of precisely this kind of electronic trade in the last few years and predominantly even faster in the time ahead, so, before us, it is the task of the institutions to protect all those traffic participants in the best way possible. And that subject is very interesting we have witnessed it both yesterday and today. Today, the current topic is just a fraud related to imports of cars from a European country that is currently being implemented online, so through certain domains and just a warning from the institutions themselves to pay attention to this particular topic, just these days, today, seen in a larger volume than usual. It is one segment that definitely points to the currentity of the topic and to the actuality of the proposal for this Law because it can indeed be about big money, and to the great economic and intrinsic damages that can arise from and as such. In view of this, this is not about thousands of kunas or euros but about millions do not give God greater amounts as such, and certainly this is how through this bill and here proposed, which is in line with the European norms clearly given to the knowledge that today and especially tomorrow we will find a way to precisely, when it comes to this subject and this electronic trading business and works in accordance with the Law. Certainly, given the year back, which is before us today, taking into account the popularity of this particular form of trade, I mentioned banking here as quite classic, but it certainly premises that the course of movement of goods will be marked first and foremost by a good part of the time that we face such types of transactions, namely all of us, especially those who are in the implementation of this Act and in the implementation of the accompanying measures which have been prevented,... penalties should be given in accordance with this and the proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Trade I support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80580	I thank you for having one replica of the esteemed representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80581	Thank you very much. A fellow Turk. The Internet and this kind of technological modernisation so much that it can be compared to the greatest technological achievements at all. And he not only is he necessary he will so benefit the future and welcome every man to his development, the development of society. but we need to be aware of the dangers of the Internet in general, how much hate is spread online, how many ordered comments and prosaculars can be found on the Internet, how much we have to fear that our paedophiles don't attack our children, how many fake identities there are, how many fake facebooks open, imagine how one ex-boyfriend of a girl cancels her admission exam and destroys that girl's dream and her future life. All because of fraud, but no one was responsible for it, so these amendments to the law are necessary to regulate it. There's no greater threat to society today than the Internet. So you're afraid to put your identity somewhere, you're afraid to pay for the hotel, you're asking in advance to pay the money, you're afraid to pay with a card because it's going to abuse your card. He should be aware of these dangers that the legal framework would then be as serious and as quality as possible in order to make such failures and such misdemeanors as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80582	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80583	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, in the present body, we have been discussing from the opening presentation and further actually looking at the implementation of this Bill proposal in practice, first of all, according to the possible financial problems or financial damages that can be shown in this way, and we point out, but clearly, that the topic related to the proposal of this law, but related to the Internet and communication much wider, therefore it speaks clearly with the support of the basic theme and the the thesis of freedom of public words as such and, on the other hand, have all possible sanctions so that in all forms and domains of social life it would not be used in a negative way or would not bring great social harm to individuals, and then perhaps systems as a whole. In my view it's an even bigger task, an even bigger task when we're talking about someone and the importance... the damage he's clearly targeted, but when we're talking about the total social damage of a publicly spoken word or written through the Internet network then its execution can be like maybe we can't even assume ourselves right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80584	I thank and conclude the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80585	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Trade, was an emergency procedure, first and second reading, so P.Z.E. No. 900. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on electronic trade. Let's please get involved and vote on this one of the European laws. Here, please, let's get involved and vote. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 85 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80586	Moving to point 5. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 901. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings of the Law, amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Paul Maticic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80587	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. The Republic of Croatia has established a legal framework in the field of the protection of personal data, which is broadly consistent with the acquis of the European Union. Thus, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia on the protection of personal data would fully comply with the EU acquis on the proposal for this law means the Law on the Protection of Personal Data is further aligned with the European Community Directive of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free transfer of such data on issues which are not fully regulated and harmonised. The proposal thus extends cases of processing of personal data and determines that personal data may continue to be collected if data processing is necessary for the purpose of legitimate interests of the controller of the personal data collection or of a third party, unless the interests of protection of the fundamental rights of the subjects prevail. It is also understood that personal data should only be processed in cases laid down by law. It shall also be more precise in exceptional cases in which specific categories of personal data may be collected continue to be processed, data relating to criminal and criminal records may only be processed under the control of the competent authorities. Prior to the collection of personal data, the controller of the personal data collection shall inform the subject and the existence of the right to access information and data and the right to rectification of the data concerned. The issue of transfer of personal data to third countries is further regulated. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data shall report to the European Commission and to the authorities responsible for the control of the protection of personal data in EU Member States in cases where the third country considers that it does not provide an adequate level of protection of personal data and in cases where exceptional personal data are presented in such countries on the basis of the guarantee of the personal data collection manager. The issue of decision-making which produces legal effects on or significantly affects the subject shall be settled and shall be based solely on the automatic processing of personal data. Such decisions may only be taken in limited cases with adequate legal protection. In order to inform the public, reports on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data shall be made public and published on the Agency’s website. In addition to harmonising with the Directive, in order to effectively implement the Personal Data Protection Act, additional cases of violations of the law provided for in a fine for infringement are established, and it is also found that the person responsible in the state body and in the bodies of the units of local and regional self-government will be punished for the offence. Finally, I can declare that we accept amendments to the Legislative Committee that we propose the proposed law in the Assembly to adopt this proposed bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80588	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Ivo Grbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80589	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation, I would point out that the HDZ Club will support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Data Protection Act. Indeed, the existing personal data protection regulation is governed by the Personal Data Protection Act whose infringement is subject to criminal and criminal liability. In view of the need for full harmonisation of the area of protection of personal data with the legal property of the EU proposed amendments and additions to the Data Protection Act, it is further aligned with Directive 95/46 of the European Community, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on issues which are not fully harmonised and relating to the processing of personal data and the free transfer of such data. Thus, the proposed law extended cases of authorisation for the processing of personal data in such a way as to allow personal data to be collected to continue to be processed even if the processing of data is necessary for the purpose of the legal interests of the controller of the personal data collection or third parties, except where the protection interests of the subjects’ fundamental rights prevail. Furthermore, it is also specified that personal data may be processed exclusively in cases established by law and exceptional cases where specific categories of personal data may continue to be collected. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law also further address the issue of transfer of personal data to third countries. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data which is obliged to report to the European Commission as well as the authorities responsible for the supervision of the protection of personal data on EU Member States in all cases where it considers that the third country does not provide an adequate level of protection of personal data and of cases where exceptional personal data is provided in such countries by the guarantee of the personal data collection manager. In any event, the report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in order to inform the public shall be made public and published on the Agency’s website. The proposed amendments and additions, primarily for the sake of more effective law enforcement, also prescribes additional cases of violations of the laws for which fines are provided, and determines that the offence will also be punished by the responsible person in the state body as part of a local and regional regional self-government unit. At the end of its presentation, it would also point out the regulation of the decision-making issue which produces the legal effect of the subjects or has a significant impact on them, which is based solely on the automatic processing of personal data. It is certainly possible to make such decisions only in limited cases and with appropriate legal protection. For all these reasons, and given that this legislative proposal is in line with the acquis of the EU and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Personal Data Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80590	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80591	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Personal Data Protection Act, was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 901. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, this amendment has been adopted and becomes an integral part of Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Please, let's get involved and vote. The final proposal for the Law was also adopted unanimously with 85 votes, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80592	We're moving on to point six. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the State Border Control Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 908 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80593	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Border Control is in line with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU No. 526/2006, Code of Schengen Borders, Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of The coordination with the European acquis concerns the introduction of an internal safety risk assessment, the definition of crossing the border of border traffic, the introduction of a second line of verification, the regulation of the obligation to provide data on passengers in rail transport, the exercise of basic border control over persons who enjoy the right to freedom of movement under Community law on specially marked and certain control bands and the regulation of the obligation to adopt stamps in documents for the crossing of the state border. Because of this law, it is in conformity with the directives that I suggest you adopt it by an urgent procedure. And on behalf of the promoter, we accept Amendments 908 and 909 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80594	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80595	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The supervision of the state border, border police affairs, international border police cooperation and the co-operation of services at the state border are areas governed by the Law on the Control of the State Border, which entered into force on 7 November 2003, except for certain provisions which take effect on the day of the full application of the Schengen Implementation Agreement in the Republic of Croatia. Some shortcomings have been identified in the application so far, which seek to address this proposal. These amendments and additions to the State Border Act, with the exception of the observed shortcomings of the State Border Act, will fully comply with the provisions of the Schengen Borders Code, as well as with the Regulation of the European Parliament laying down rules on retail traffic at the external borders of the Member States. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the draft law amending and supplementing the State Border Control Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80596	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative of Milivo Schwartz, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80597	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There are several reasons why it is necessary to support the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border. Its application will also lead to further coordination with the European acquis, which we are obliged to do as a future full member. This follows also compliance with the Schengen Borders Code, and in practice this means not only checking persons at border crossings but also assessing the risks to internal security and the assessment of threats to the security of external borders. Then, in line with the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union's 2006 Regulation on rules on small-border transport at the external borders of the Member States, and we are expected to conclude a border traffic agreement with neighbouring countries at the future external border of the European Union, which will be supervised by our border police. Amendments and additions shall be made to introduce the first and second lines of border control and the special tape, if it exists at the border crossings for citizens of the European Union who enjoy the right to free movement and all to shorten the waiting time, and how much this means for Croatia during the tourist season should not be particularly stressed. Other amendments and additions to certain articles of the law applicable from 7 November 2003 are mainly due to the need to address deficiencies which are naturally seen in everyday practice in the control of the state border by the border police or in international border police cooperation and cooperation at the state border service. One such thing is an amendment to Article 23 which provides for the authorisation of a crew member who could only be granted such approval at the first port in which the ship would have sailed, where, for example, there is no need to land, but in the next in which such authorisation is to be landed, it is no longer possible to obtain such authorisation. Fortunately, technical opportunities have been created in terms of the application of the national information system for the management of the state border which can speed up the exercise of border control in rail transport as provided for by this law. In adopting spatial plans that plan to edit space and regulate building conditions near the border line, the future acquisition of opinions by the Ministry of Interior is foreseen, which has not been the case so far. So the spatial plan cannot be adopted if its solution would reduce transparency, general security of the border, the possibility of border control or traffic flow. And already mentioned by the development of the national information system for the management of the state border and the application of new sophisticated technical equipment that automatically collects, process and store data requires that the law prescribes basic provisions relating to operational collections of such data and that there is no need to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law, there is no reason not to support the vote of the law by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80598	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. That's when the morning part of the session is over. We will proceed at 1500 hours with point 7. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on arms, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 909. Thank you very much and welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80599	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Border Control Act, was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 908. So, this is E I especially stress, so don't be surprised because that's where we mostly agreed, right? Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee adopted and became an integral part of Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am therefore voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 84 votes along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80600	Dear MPs and MPs, continue the afternoon session according to the established agenda, which is point 7. - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on arms, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 909 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80601	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Weapons with the Final Proposal of the Law. The Arms Act was published on 18 June 2007, and entered into force on 1 September 2007, according to Council Directives 91/477/EC on the control of the supply and holding of arms. Since there has been a change in the European acquis, in the meantime since the date of the law, and that we have had initiatives, above all, of the Croatian Hunting Union, of the Croatian Shooting Union for amending and supplementing the law in terms of more precise normation of certain provisions on the use of hunting and firearms, in the sense that hunters and shooters, sports shooters, have been enabled to keep and use arms, there have been changes and additions to the law. The proposed amendments and amendments are in line with the amendment of Council Directive 91/447/EC on the control of the supply and holding of arms, which has been amended and supplemented by Directive 2008/51EC. The same amendments and additions are in line with the Constitutional Court's decision of 5 March 2011 concerning the issue of the return of arms if the owner of the weapon is released by a judicial decision. The amendments and additions relate to the following areas, from the part-round work of the Ministry of the Interior, administrative affairs, public order and peace, crime prevention, border police actions at the time of introduction and the amount of weapons from the Republic of Croatia, and conduct in the field of investigation and marking of firearms. In accordance with the amendment of the Directive concerning the definition of the conduct of arms intervention operations, the concepts of arms broker have been added, and the conditions to be met by a natural or legal person to carry out arms intervention operations are laid down. Subjects of special purpose integral silencers, silencers intended for weapons and parts for silencers are included in the category prescribed in Article 6. The gun law. Given the danger that certain types of air weapons and weapons with tendons truly represent, an air weapon whose kinetic energy is greater than 10.5 joules or nears greater than 150 metres per second and a weapon with a tendon whose force exceeds 450 newtons is inequitablely 45 kilograms has been transferred from lower to higher category, both in the category of prohibited weapons of category C and D has been included when it is used for harassing, attack and injury. In order to comply with the European acquis, a new arms document has been introduced to facilitate the legal holders of arms movement in the territory of the Member States of the European Union, namely that document must be operational on the date of entry into full membership of the Republic of Croatia. A provision requiring the issue of special authorisation for the supply of ammunition has been deleted, allowing citizens to obtain ammunition in addition to the established weapons list. A ban on the carrying of weapons of category B, C and D in a public place has been introduced in such a way that it is visible to other citizens or in a way that disturbs citizens and is also prescribed sanctions for infringements if otherwise proposed provision is followed. A provision relating to the confiscation of a category C weapon in the event of a suspension of the conditions for its holding shall be laid down to the physician that the person who has accessed an emergency medical examination does not issue a conviction unless that person attaches the decision of the competent authority to refer to such a review, and the question of the owner of the arms to which the certificate of health has been issued to them in accordance with the Law on Arms in a manner that obliges them to deliver a new belief not exceeding 3 months within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. The provisions of the Arms Act are in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act and, in accordance with the instructions of the Ministry of Administration of 25 March of this year, by which a single approach indicates to the central authorities of the State Administration that they must comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act in the process of harmonising the legislation with the law. It is proposed to limit the number of pieces of weapons and ammunition that Croatian citizens and foreigners can transfer across the state border for hunting purposes, the bill prescribes obligations for Croatian citizens and sites and when crossing the state border to report weapons and ammunition to the border police and customs. As regards the basis for staying a stranger in the Republic of Croatia, the harmonisation of the provisions of the Arms Act with the provisions of the Foreigners Act in the provisions relating to the activities prescribed by the Arms Act has been carried out, it is proposed to amend the provisions which stipulate that when applying for the exercise of activity the conditions relating to the regulated space for carrying out those activities, it is proposed to issue a permit for direct handling of firearms and persons less than 21 years of age if that person is qualified to call a gunman before the age of 21, since regular schooling for calling a gun maker takes 3 years to ensure that persons who finish regular training with an existing legal solution do not allow employment in the profession before the age of 21, the proposal of the law adheres to additional provisions relating to the field of testing and marking of firearms, which is consistent with the countries of the European Union, on the proposal of the Croatian Federation for additional legislation which has been submitted to the Croatian law by Croatian law to the Croatian law enforcement. In this article, it is specified that people up to the 21st year of life and minors can shoot at a civilian shooting range if they are actively engaged in sports shooting and exclusively under the supervision of coaches. The issue of granting authorisations for the exercise of the citizens' training activities for the correct use of firearms, prescribed sanctions for infringements are harmonised with the proposed amendments and additions, it is prescribed that the weapons and ammunition taken from citizens in the appropriate procedures for which, when withdrawn or during storage, is found to be a direct threat to human life and health and cannot be adequately preserved can be destroyed even before the proceedings are completed. And it is prescribed that persons who still have an armed gun-holding list issued as a memory are obliged to disable that weapon and keep it or hand it over to the Republic of Croatia. These are the shortest changes and additions to this law. And let me just say that we accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80602	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Stanko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80603	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here are some concrete suggestions we have on behalf of the HSS Club, and I certainly want to thank the Proposer and to commend the promoters for their efforts and for showing understanding of this legislative proposal. First of all, thank you for showing understanding of the requirements of the Croatian Shooting Union relating to here's certain compliance with certain needs of Croatian shooters, above all in the competitive and sporting sense that here is really shown maximum understanding with here's another little thing that we think can be done. So we think that this existing law was certainly necessary to complete or upgrade, or improve, because in its application it showed certain shortcomings and we think that here we are largely with this proposal being in this intention and doing so. First of all, we heard in the opening explanation of what all of these changes and additions are and we believe that this is largely in certain chapters to a large extent a certain improvement. But here we would mention ourselves and look back at some details that we fear are difficult simply in reality and apply, that is, we do not know in which way they will be essentially feasible. I will first and foremost mention Article 5 here, which speaks of air weapons, which speaks of a certain speed of the missile and where the conditions are satisfied, i.e. the wishes and needs of Croatian shooters, because it is that if we were to generalise and not rank it this way and divide Croatian shooting into question its functioning, i.e. shut down a large number of associations, and school associations and associations involved in the shooting competition, and let us not forget that Croatian shooting belongs to the most trophy sports in the Republic of Croatia from its independence. At the end of the day, Croatia's shooting has completed 4 quotas for the Olympic Games and therefore is among the most professional and significant sports. Of course it is not so popular in the media, but in any case here are a large number of medals won for the Republic of Croatia talking about the excellent successes of Croatian shooting. Here he would mention just maybe one detail that we think would be a good fit, which is the determination of that caliber. Here is mentioned 200 meters per second or larger, a.5 millimeter caliber should be mentioned. All that is more than 4.5 millimeter Croatian shooters and do not use in a competitive sense. So it's only a.5 millimeter caliber, which I think would further explain the meaning of this provision, means when we talk about air weapons. We think that this would be a good thing to install in any case and that would contribute to a certain clarity of this law itself and explain, solve any further misunderstandings. What we think needs to be simplified or otherwise explained, explained, and perhaps it is possible through another reading, it is about Article 57. Physical persons with registered weapons shall be obliged to notify the competent authority of the primary healthcare physician within 180 days of the entry into force of this law. I think the idea is right and right, but only in certain cases when it's really about certain diseases. Why? As the natural persons with registered weapons are further mentioned here, within 60 days of the date of administration of the primary healthcare physician chosen, the competent authority shall notify the resulting change, i.e. the natural person who, within the time limits set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, does not provide the competent authority with information on the selected primary healthcare physician or on the change of the selected primary healthcare physician, the armed list will be abolished. Let's try to apply it in real life in practice. As a measure, I have no doubt that he has good intentions in view of certain types and specificities and diseases. However, I am afraid that we will also burden the holder of the gun list, and clearly the general practice doctor himself, because simply reporting the changes that have taken place will increase and require a certain increase in the administration. What does that mean in reality? How many of us here at this point know how much our general practice really works and has there been a change from 60 days back? Did a doctor go to maternity? We should have known that, and as holders of the armed list, we should have reported it to the police department. What does that mean? That I have to go to the Home of Health every 60 days or somewhere and see if that doctor of mine works or doesn't? Has each of us been to a general practitioner in the last year, two or three, maybe once more. I'm afraid that we're going to complicate here, that first of all, doctors of general practice and the holders of the gun list will be burdened with certain administrations because I think we need to go in that direction to motivate and simplify anyone who wants to hold or carry weapons or keep a gun. And to demotize the holding of weapons or weapons on black, therefore, I think that here the proposer is doing well to improve the existing law, but this part I'm afraid should somehow simplify and improve that text, and I believe that there are opportunities and opportunities for that to happen, I say through another reading. Once again, I would like to thank the promoter on behalf of the Croatian Shooting Union for showing understanding and to say to the answered wishes and needs in the interest of Croatian Shooting to make this law even more quality and even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80604	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, honourable representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80605	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the Proposal for this Act or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Arms Act. The proposed amendments and additions to the current Arms Act cover various areas of the Ministry of the Interior's department, such as administrative affairs, public order and peace, criminality control, border police action at the time of introduction and the amount of weapons from the Republic of Croatia, and the conduct in the field of investigation and marking of firearms. During the application of the Arms Act in carrying out arms-related administrative tasks, certain shortcomings in the current legal solution have been observed as well as the fact that the Republic of Croatia has completed its membership negotiations in the European Union, thus completing the full application of the legal acquis of the European Union. Therefore, these amendments and the amendments to the Law aim to ensure that such shortcomings and illogicalities are removed or nominated in a more precise way to improve the quality and economic performance of all administrative matters in matters of arms. It was also noted that the current Law also does not contain relevant provisions concerning the possibility of obtaining ammunition, so that the proposed changes and additions allow citizens to be provided with ammunition while presenting the valid armed list so as to simplify the supply of ammunition. More specifically, the issue of weapons availability following the death of gun owners was regulated in the event that the heir was rejected from the application for the registration of weapons based on succession, the question of how to dispose of such weapons was raised in practice. More specifically, the articles of the Law which will be shown to health institutions that citizens do not come by themselves to a medical examination for holding and carrying weapons without being referred to by the competent authority. Therefore, with these amendments and additions, the doctor proposes that the person who has access to the emergency medical examination should not issue a conviction unless that person attaches a solution to the competent authority to refer to such a review. In addition, these amendments and additions address the question of gun owners whose belief in the health skills issued to them under the arms law by obliging them to deliver within a year of the entry into force of this Act a new belief which must not be more than three months old. Also in connection with the basis for staying foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, the enforcement of the provisions of the arms law with the provisions of the Foreign Law is executive. The provisions of the applicable Law laying down sanctions for infringements are also in line with the proposed amendments and additions further, during the implementation of the Law, the problem of safeguarding and providing for arms and ammunition taken from citizens in a administrative and infringement procedure which, for the sake of its properties, poses a direct threat to citizens. Certain weapons and ammunition, in particular explosives seized from citizens in the absence of adequate safe means and spatial storage facilities, pose a direct and immediate threat to police officers who handle them both, of course, and to citizens. These items cannot be treated in a general manner that is prescribed for all taken away items. In view of the absence of the legal possibility of the immediate destruction of those items, it is proposed to lay down a provision under which weapons and ammunition are found to pose a direct threat to human life and health, which cannot be adequately safeguarded so that it can be destroyed before the end of the proceedings. I'd like to point out one interesting fact here in legal practice regarding the production of firearms silencers. In view of the fact that no specific law is prescribed in any type of special equipment, or under what "region" regarding the obligations of the owner, including integral silencers, intended weapons and parts for silencers, it was necessary to include those items in the categories prescribed in Article 6 of the Arms Act and thus in category A of the arms ban. The present case-law has shown that the criminal application, i.e. bonds, is the subject of the criminal offence referred to in Article 335. The criminal law prohibits the holding of arms and explosive substances from the production of sales or purchase or possession of a silencer because in that store the courts did not find fault, since no regulation has been declared that the silencers should be considered as special equipment whose ownership of the citizens is prohibited. I don't think anyone really needs to tell you about the silencer category here how much it's actually equipment that's very dangerous. These changes are prescribed that given the dangers that certain types of air weapons and weapons with... really represent... in a higher category in terms of the rights and obligations of gun owners, therefore, it is an air weapon whose kinetic energy is greater than 10.5 kilojoules or a speed greater than 150 metres per second and a weapon with... whose force weighs more than 450 N.... are sanctions for carrying weapons or objects which could obviously serve as weapons in a public place. This provision further protects the sense of personal security of citizens and aims to reduce the challenge of their fear and anxiety, which affects the favourable state of public order and peace. The proposal of the Croatian Hunting Union also introduces the possibility of renting weapons to foreign hunters, whom the Croatian Hunting Union has issued a hunting card for foreigners. Furthermore, it is required for Croatian citizens and foreigners to report weapons and ammunition to border police and customs when crossing the state border. An important law has established itself the obligation to report weapons to the border police. These amendments and additions to the Law are in line with the new European Union directives on arms. By entering the European Union and abandoning all police and customs formalities and other checks at national borders, conditions shall be created for the introduction of the necessary firearms control obligations primarily for countries where the weapons are manufactured and, at all times, to carry out tests on firearms produced in the country in order to ensure the prevention of illegal arms trafficking. Especially given the suspension of various controls at national borders. Both these objectives create the basis of the above-mentioned directives as a... convention and the adoption of the internal law of the Member States that thus protect and relations form part of the negotiations. The proposed amendments to the Arms Act in the part which provides for the examination and marking of the brand of firearms create the necessary assumptions for the import of firearms to be satisfied by the Republic of Croatia as a manufacturer of firearms and future full-fledged EU member. We see from the above that it is a major and significant procedure in the existing Arms Act. We also see that it is a series of newspapers introduced into the law as well as full harmonisation of the law with EU directives. Here, from all of this above, the HDZ Club will support the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80606	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, esteemed Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the MUP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80607	Thank you very much. It's done. So, we will also consider this comment by the Greek representative on behalf of the HSS club. Our intention was indeed to simplify this procedure, as regards the holding and use of gun owners, which are primarily sportsmen and hunters, which is one of the outstanding issues that Mr. Greek pointed out about how to obtain data on gun owners who have experienced certain changes in health conditions that affect and can affect his reliability as the owner of weapons. I just have to say that the data on the number of murders committed by firearms is saying that unfortunately among the perpetrators or the means of committing a murder in almost 30% was a means of committing legalized or registered firearms. In any case, we will consider this idea of Mr. Greek, and we will be clear of it by Friday's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80608	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80609	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Arms Act, was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 909. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The club of the representatives of the HSS submitted the following proposal for a conclusion: first, the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Arms, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. The 909th is referred to as a second reading. Secondly, it is up to the Ministry of the Interior to carefully consider all objections made during the debate on the law, amending and supplementing the Arms Act, and to include them in the content of the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Weapons to the extent that the proposals are relevant and justified. Does the proposal's representative want to show himself about the proposal for this conclusion? Yeah. Mr. Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80610	The conclusion is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80611	Sustained. I am voting on, therefore, the proposal for a conclusion tabled by the Association of Representatives of the HSS, which was agreed by the proposaling representative. So we're voting on these two conclusions. You're welcome to turn yourself in and vote. This proposal for a conclusion was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80612	We move to point 8, which is - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Guarantee Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "CroatMS Upgrade Project for the Croatian Air Traffic Management System (CROATMS) and related projects", with the Final Bill Proposal, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 910 Proposer Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The E.R. is uniting the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Daniel Mileta, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80613	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. So that I don't read what you actually have on your benches, and it's about confirming a guarantee contract, I'm just going to concentrate a few words on the very project that's being talked about here. The previous upgrade of the Croatian air traffic management system is discussed and the English shortcut is CROATMS. This system and its maintenance are in operational operation and it is the maintenance of the permanent obligation of the company HKZP and Croatia's air navigation control. HKZP recognized the possibility of upgrading this system that normally works in Croatia, because if it hadn't been for heaven over Croatia much, especially record this season. However, as technology progresses as the old infrastructure improves air traffic, it is also necessary to modify or modify the infrastructure. The HKZP therefore recognised the possibility of upgrading our system through the Culpan Eurocat product line as a partner in development work. This Culpan is a model of joint cooperation between Sweden, Ireland, Denmark and Austria together with Croatia and a joint performance towards suppliers of services and products. This lowers what is required, so up to 30% decreases the value of the investment. I would also point out that all of this is foreseen in the five-year investment plan of the company HKZP 2011-2014 approved by the assembly. And to point out that the HKZP is 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia. Since the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has conditioned the payment of loans by prior signature and entry into force of the guarantee agreement guaranteeing the maintenance of the financial obligations of the borrower, this procedure has been initiated. I would also say that the HKZP generates 95% of its income from foreign providers or on practically on the international agenda, so there will certainly be no fear of returning, or that this guarantee may be activated. The loan alone amounts to 47m euros per 12-year repayment period with a start of 3.5 years. Here's the short story about the project itself, and all about the guarantee, so because this is one procedureal law you finally have before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80614	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80615	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is another one in a series of HBOR loans, so it may be an opportunity to recall that so far, such loans have been 2 billion euros 200m euros for 130 projects, with that loan and that amount making it possible to invest 5.8 billion euros. So if it wasn't for these 2.2 billion loans, there wouldn't have been an investment of 5.8 billion. Here, as the title itself says, is a project to upgrade the Croatian air traffic management system, which immediately means that it is a matter of certain security. And as our government signed this contract on 29 September 2011, it is necessary to confirm this in the Croatian Parliament today. We have heard about a 47m-euro loan for 12 years, which is common since we became an EU accession country, and especially since we have now completed the negotiations. Namely, with this contract that will be achieved with this money, so what's the use? Implementation of an efficient air traffic management system by pooling expertise and working through partnership, then standardised management system with other EU Member States, strengthening the impact of Croatian air navigation service providers in the region, which is also very important last year's modernisation of management systems in line with European standards arising from European legislation. The proposal is that this law is voted here in the Croatian Parliament by emergency procedure, which of course supports the HDZ club because air safety cannot wait until SDP returns to the benches, because if we had waited for them since 25 June 1991, they might not have returned to the bench by now. So we're in favour of an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80616	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First is Honorable Representative Milivo Schwartz, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80617	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Croatian Air Traffic Management System Upgrade (CROATMS). It is a law confirming the loan guarantee agreement, but also confirming a 47m-euro investment in the Croatian economy. The purpose of the project is to modernise the air navigation control system in the Republic of Croatia, with the aim of improving air traffic safety and increasing capacity. The credit responsibility involved is part of the five-year investment plan of the Croatian air navigation control d.o.o. for the period from 2011 to 2015 Such a commitment to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is only possible with a state guarantee. In order to support the implementation of this project, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at a session held on 3 August 2011 to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of these contracts. Following this, the delegation of the Republic of Croatia was authorised in Zagreb on 1 September 2011, and the contracts were signed on 29 September. The loan funds are intended primarily to invest in increasing the safety of air navigation standards, and the Air Transport Act, which defines the subject of business of Croatian air navigation control, makes it clear that it is a business which is of public interest to the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to very important investment in the air traffic security system such as this and for all but also the air carrier controlling Croatia's air navigation control d.o.o. and who will certainly ensure that this Croatian company remains in the leading position in its branch in this region, and also successfully comply with the leading European standards, then it is clear that the adoption of the law on the confirmation of this guarantee contract is of great public interest. The planned loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development amounts to 47m euros, and the repayment period is 12 years with a start of 3.5 years with an interest rate of 6 months + 1% of the margin. It is not important that according to the number and value of the loans so far approved and the technical assistance provided by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is still one of the most significant foreign financial partners in Croatia, and the value of the loans granted to which around 130 projects have been implemented is 2.2 billion euros. Another of the valuable projects that will be financed in part by the loan of this bank will be this one whose realisation includes Croatia's air navigation control in order to use it to finance priority systems and equipment for air navigation control as part of a comprehensive programme for their modernisation and upgrade, which is very important in the context of Croatia's preparation for integration into the European Union's single market. Air navigation control is one of the world's most dynamic industries. Thanks to this project, given the continued growth of air traffic above Croatia, modernising the air navigation control system will allow our company to maintain key standards in the area of security, efficiency, flight, capacity and cost compensation. This is also an investment response to the needs that require an increase in air traffic, and we have heard that it is very large, and whose significant growth we are looking forward to in the next period. By estimating the adoption of this law of great public interest to the Republic of Croatia, I support the draft law and its adoption by an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80618	Thank you. And it is up to the honourable representative Ivan Škaričić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. This is because the government has estimated that for the Republic of Croatia it is very important and it is really very important to improve air traffic control, and most of all for... its objective growth in the future and therefore results in the need to provide financial resources for the project. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the Report on the lead negotiations for the conclusion of the guarantee agreement from 21 September 2011... The Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the loan agreement between Croatia air navigation control d.o.o. and EBRD, and for this project. [[You don't understand.]] According to the conditions offered by the EBRD, Croatia's air navigation control loan was granted at 12 years, including 3.5 years of start, and this is also the deadline for withdrawal of funds. So in those 3.5 years, we need to withdraw these 47 million. The total costs associated with the project of upgrading the Croatian air traffic management system and related projects aimed at modernising the air navigation control system of the Republic of Croatia, with a view to improving air traffic safety and capacity building, thus amounting to EUR 47 million. In order to come to a certain situation, the borrower cannot repay the loan is required to be guaranteed in accordance with European legislation and in this case the state, which enters the place of the guarantee, and it is necessary to adopt this law by an urgent procedure and thank God that we will have a sufficient majority in the Croatian Parliament to do so. Therefore, this law will allow for all of this which has been laid down in advance, and from all of this I will support the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80620	Thank you. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Finally, distinguished Daniel Mileta, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80621	Thank you very much. Very short. I thank everyone for their support, I would say that if this law is voted in this House, they call on its implementation to be completed in February 2014 and the second phase in April 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80622	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80623	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "CroatMS Upgrade Project for the Croatian Air Traffic Management System (CROATMS) and related projects", emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 910. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "CroatMS Upgrade Project for the Croatian Air Traffic Management System (CROATMS) and related projects". Let's please get involved and vote on the bill. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80624	We move to point 9, that is - - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Water-Communal Infrastructure Fund project, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 912 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear Zdravko Krmek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At the very beginning, I would like to say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is under Chapter 27, where they are located and water has taken over, means the obligation to build waste water purifiers and also sewer systems on 294 agglomerations, and we will also contribute to 68 water supply zones to our consumers good quality, healthy and drinking water. We also made a commitment to 443 local water lines that today do not have health and sanitary good water, that we will also bring healthy, quality and drinking water there. It's through this loan that less, so smaller cities and smaller municipalities that don't have enough money to build meanings and water utility buildings, so through this loan, they're going to get the possibility that the state means that the money they need, because they don't have it in their budgets. I would also like to say that thanks to this project, around 390 thousand people will have healthy, high-quality and drinking water, and about 350 thousand inhabitants will have a quality treatment of municipal waste water. Let me say the same few words about the loan itself, so the loan weighs 75m euros, and what's more important here to add that this loan will be used as I just said as a national component to get money from EU funds. At the very end, I would like to say that the total loan, which I am asking you to support through the confirmation of this law that it will bring us to the level that we will mean by the end of 2023 that we will be on 92 agglomerations, means that we will have complete systems to clean up municipal waste water, and that on 24 water supply zones we will have healthy, high-quality and drinking water. I thank you, and finally, here's one more time I ask you MPs to support this text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80626	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80627	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Water-Communal Infrastructure Financing Project. I'm going to point out a few water-related facts here, so I'm going to say that the water crisis felt by a large part of the world means it's not caused by too little water, but by an inappropriate way of managing water, which is due to millions of people, but also by a large part of the environment suffering precisely from a lack of water. Some estimates show that in the near future some 3 billion people will have less than a thousand 700 cubic cc's of renewable water resources per capita per year, which is really small. Croatia is fortunately listed in a group of water-rich countries in which water and water problems are not yet tightened and water resources are not yet a limiting factor of development, as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned by the availability and wealth of water sources is at a high 5th place in the European Union, 42nd in the world and has exceptional development potential. The balance of surface and underground waters shows that the Republic of Croatia has large but unequal amounts of space and time-scheduled quantities of surface and groundwater. I would like to remind you that the total renewable water sources are 35,000 and 200 cubic metres per capita, that drinking water reserves are relatively large, 90% of water supply is drained from groundwater supply, while the connection to the public water supply system is 80%, and the public drain system is 43% of the source is protected by the establishment and maintenance of the sanitary protection zone that now covers almost 20% of the surface of the Republic of Croatia. Accordingly, water management authorities shall have powers, obligations and opportunities to design quality and harmonised solutions sustainable for all parts of the water system and all activities of the water and water-dependent economy. The water management strategy adopted by this Assembly has defined the legitimate, organisational, financial, scientific and information framework for the operation of the water economy in the circumstances of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, as well as in the near circumstances of full membership. It is precisely the adoption of the Water Management Strategy that paves the way for the full transformation of the water management system into the Republic of Croatia in accordance with EU rules. The strategy has also set objectives for all segments of the water economy, but has also defined many activities and measures to achieve those objectives, of course, with the sources of funding indicated where both loans and EU funds are listed. The water economy plays an extremely important role through integrated water management, water regulation and the role of improving the quality of life of the population and sustainable development. We have to leave at least the way we found it. The protection of human health is one of the basic tasks, and in this context, water management is a priority starting from the population's involvement in the public water supply system and drain system. The health standards of drinking water and bathing water depend on the construction and efficiency of the water communal system. In the Republic of Croatia, too, the problem of not being sufficiently connected to the public discharge system is highlighted, which is also potentiated by a large difference between the level of accession to the 80% public water supply system and the 40% public drain. This is based on these data, strategies and stresses the need for more significant investments in the development of water-communal systems in the Republic of Croatia in order to gradually achieve EU standards. This means more significant investments in the construction of the water supply system, as well as in the collection and disposal of waste water, by cleaning means before being released into the natural receivers. The protection of human health also includes care for the quantities and quality of water used for the food industry, as well as for fish, shellfish, bathing, recreation. The World Health Organization warns that nearly 1.5 million people die annually because of water pollution, not only because of the lack of clean fresh water, but because of the lack of fresh water. So, the people in the place right where they live. And a few years ago, colleagues and colleagues, for the first time more than 50% of the world's population had access to water from the water stream. The reform of the communal sector provides for the uniformity and improvement of quality of services, but more efficient and quality management of public water supply and draining and water treatment systems. Here is why this project is also of exceptional importance, which I'm going to say something about briefly. The "Finance of Water-Communal Infrastructures" project will contribute to the implementation of the Water-Communal Directives adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Chapter 27. – The environment which the Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide funding for the implementation of the water-communal sector projects. And this Directive on municipal waste water provides for the construction of a wastewater disposal system by cleaning up 294 agglomerations of estimated 3.2 billion euros with the deadline for all works to be completed by 2023. Furthermore, the Drink Water Directive provides for the construction of facilities in the identified 68 water supply zones in order to achieve a demanding water quality in terms of microbiological and chemical indicators, in particular by introducing public water supply systems 443 local water pipelines estimated at 1.3 billion euros with a deadline for the completion of all works by the end of 2018. So it's a loan to finance this project. The project in all units means local self-government units in the area of all Croatian counties except the City of Zagreb. Total loan costs, as the secretary of state said, were estimated at 150m euros. The European Investment Bank provides 75m euros and the rest is its own funds or state budget funds or European funds. The loan is granted for a maximum period of 20 years with a start of 5 years and implementation is 2012 to 2015. The funds will be available immediately after the entry into force of the financing contract and will therefore be financed under projects in units of local self-government, I have said already in the territory of the entire Republic of Zagreb, except for the City of Zagreb that do not have enough own funds to improve water-community infrastructure, but will be used, which I believe is extremely important for projects nominated for the use of EU funds, means structural instruments where the loan would be used as part of national funding for co-financing of these projects. We at the HDZ Club hold that this is extremely good because we already have a large number of well-prepared projects that have failed to finance the funds of pre-accession funds. And here, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would also like to announce the CEB project, which will also be provided with an additional 75m euros in funding and thus call on local self-government units to run for their projects and for this project, but also on the next one to be financed by the CEB. So I will conclude that this programme will also provide investment, additional investment, i.e. this project is part of an investment cycle in new jobs and business insurance for many economic operators, and reminding that somewhere around 15 thousand employees are tied to this sector, means that it is a water-communicator to work in a water-communal economy and will ensure that it will continue to work for them, but also to create new jobs, so the HDZ club will support the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80628	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Marija Pejcinović Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here it looks like this afternoon is a little bit dedicated to the various certificates of the Finance Act, we were talking about the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the projects it is financing. There are now two laws to confirm financing with the EIB. I think it is worth mentioning here that the European Investment Bank, unlike other investors that exist in the area of international financiers, is one of those that is deeply related to the EU and with membership or approximation of EU membership. The European Investment Bank was founded on the 58th Treaty establishing the European Economic Community by means of the Treaty of Rome and, in fact, its intention was to finance development in underdeveloped parts of the European Union. Over time, with the enlargement of the European Union, the activity of the European Investment Bank has also spread to countries that tend to either go towards the membership of the European Union and Croatia, in fact, for the last 10 years since the start of its institutional approach to the European Union, has been able to use the loans of the European Investment Bank. In contrast, it is seen that the European Investment Bank has secured 35 loans in the past 10 years with a total value of 2.2 billion euros, and those other to 2 and 5 billion euros were intended for projects to finance small and medium-sized enterprises around 350m euros for these purposes. This project, or projects that we have in front of us, actually aims at a specific part of environmental protection this time, is already mentioned, the protection of the environment in our negotiations with the European Union is one very demanding and very large area, namely, it is quite well known that this area of adaptation is the most costing. Here we are talking about a water economy within the protection of the environment, the water economy belongs precisely to those segments that are the most costing it is seen that the European Investment Bank has recognized it and that in the next 4 years it intends to co-finance projects in almost all parts of Croatia, as already said all the counties other than the city of Zagreb are the ones that can benefit from this loan from the European Investment Bank. I do not think it is irrelevant to mention exactly when financial markets are quite unstable, when borrowing is quite expensive and when credit ratings are no longer as good in some countries as they are, the European Investment Bank has the highest credit rating within the European financial institutions and borrowing from that bank is considered to be among the most favourable ones in the market today. Therefore, in the conditions in which we operate today and in the conditions in which the development needs a substantial amount of money and from credit arrangements, it is extremely important that Croatia can be charged under the favourable conditions offered by the European Investment Bank under these circumstances. And finally, I think it is important to see how big this is, the European Investment Bank is going to finance half of the total value of the projects that will be financed, 75m euros in loans from the European Investment Bank for projects worth 150m euros in total. As has already been said, projects can be paid off for 20 years and a start that is also important in difficult financial times is 5 years, therefore, and when some of these projects, and it is known that in particular when it comes to water purification, water suppliers, some fees are charged at a time when loans will probably be easier to finance and repay, so part of which will be financed precisely from these projects that will be financed from this loan. Here, in this sense, I support the adoption of such a law, I think it is extremely important for the field of environmental and water economy protection, but a fellow secretary of state has already said how many projects are already waiting for the funding that we have made in the framework of adaptations to adopt European Union standards. but I would say that here it is much more than adapting to the standards of the European Union, namely, drinking water we all want, a good purification of waste water we all want, and, above all, that this is one project that will improve the quality of life, as we see from the above text, it is thought that these projects will affect 700 thousand people in Croatia, I think that when we exclude the city of Zagreb that is great that it is actually a good part of the population of the Republic of Croatia will very much feel. So much more good reason to support this law, it goes according to emergency procedures, I don't think it's necessary to talk about how important it is that these contracts that are in the vast majority of type contracts that talk about how they're going to be reported, how they're going to come to projects and that actually these money can be used as soon as the contract comes into effect and that we believe it'll be very fast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80630	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80631	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the "Financing of Water-Communal Infrastructure", emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 912. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the "Financing of Water-Communal Infrastructure" project This final bill was adopted unanimously, with 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80632	We're going to point 10. - Final draft law confirming the financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Land Infrastructure Loan Project (Integral Development of the Local Community), emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 911. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session, would the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear Carlo Djurasic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80633	Dear Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. This proposal confirms the financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for a loan project for land infrastructure, i.e. the integrated development of the local community. At its meeting held on 13 October 2011, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to launch a financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the mentioned project. The financing agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank was signed on 18 October 2011. Under this programme, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy in units of local and regional self-government continuously implements projects of construction, upgrade, and rehabilitation of social municipal and road infrastructure facilities as well as projects related to environmental protection. I would like to point out that this is the third project in a series financed by the European Investment Bank. 317 sub-projects carried out in the area of special state care or in the area of 107 units of local self-government within 14 counties were included in the first project to restore municipal infrastructure in the area of special state care. The project was followed by an integrated development of a local community called EIB2 totaling 2 billion 525 million kuna, which makes up 565 sub-projects. It is still under way, and the planned completion is expected for the end of 2014. The project - EIB2 is implemented throughout the Republic of Croatia and 292 units of local self-government are included. Both projects, unfortunately, have met only part of the needs of local and regional self-government units to build up and restructure municipal and social infrastructure facilities. Since municipalities and cities have repeatedly expressed the need to realise capital infrastructure projects in their area, and they are not able to realise themselves, the EIB3 project proposed by this law has been prepared. The total value of the project is 67.8m euros, or 506m kuna, of which loans to the European Investment Bank provide 25m euros, and the amount of 42.8m euros is secured through the state budget and budgets of units of local and regional self-government participating in the project. The project aims to improve the living standards of local and regional communities. The project will cover several individual investment sub-projects that will be classified within one of the 4 components of the project. It is worth mentioning that the loan repayment deadline is 20 years plus the grace period of 5 years, and the reason is the implementation of 2011-2014. Like I said, the project is divided into four components. The first is transport infrastructure, then electricity infrastructure, social infrastructure and environmental protection. The area of implementation of 13 continental counties. I would especially like to point out that the realisation of this project will contribute primarily to economic recovery, but also to social recovery and to improving the living standards of the local community. I therefore ask this esteemed House to pass this law in an emergency procedure so that it can begin to implement the Land Infrastructure Loan project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80634	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Nevenka Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80635	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here is a draft proposal for a Law to confirm the financing contract between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the project "A Land Infrastructure Loan (Integral Development of the Local Community) with a draft final draft law proposal. The Secretary of State has already said in the framework of the Regional Development Programme that the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy has been continuously implementing projects of building, upgrade, rehabilitation of buildings and social, municipal, road and many other sub-projects related to environmental protection since its design in the units of local and regional self-government. And I would like to point out that these same projects were implemented by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. This project has already been financed by the European Investment Bank by a third in a series since 2001. So far, 35 loans amounting to 2.5 billion euros have been granted. 317 sub-projects carried out in the area of PPDS mean areas of special state care, i.e. 107 units of local self-government within 14 counties, were included in the first project of rebuilding municipal infrastructure in areas of special state care. I just want to remind myself of this project at the beginning when it was really a problem to collect quality projects. We had a lot of money, and the project really wasn't there at that initial stage. Then those units of local and regional self-government who were aware and the facts of the completion of the project documentation and the preparation of many projects for this segment to be financed by the European Investment Bank started. The project was then launched by an integrated development of the local community or so on. EIB2 totals 2.5 billion kunas that accounted for 565 sub-projects and many EIB2 projects are still under way because of the realization because the end of 2014. This project means EIB2 is implemented in the area an extended area means the entire Republic of Croatia. Nearly 300 units of local self-government are included. Here I will take advantage of the opportunity that Zadar County is one of those who really uses a large number of projects that are now under construction from the EIB2 programme. Both of these projects were not enough for the EIB1 or EIB2, to meet all the needs of local and regional self-government units because much of the Republic of Croatia as it was killed in the Homeland War I always know to say they did not start from zero but thick below zero as regards both municipal and social infrastructure. And what was in that area and built up until the war, the war was destroyed so that it had to start not from the beginning but from the thick beneath it. Since cities and municipalities continue to show the need to realise capital infrastructure projects in their own area that are not able to realise the Government of the Republic of Croatia has set out in preparation for the continuation of this project, it means an agreement with the European Investment Bank. The aim of this project is, as the Secretary of State said, to improve the living standards of local and regional communities by raising the quality and availability of social care, culture and sports services as well as health services. Furthermore, by raising the quality and systematic concerns of vulnerable population groups, by improving environmental concerns by addressing waste management problems, but also by improving transport links through the reconstruction and construction of adequate infrastructure, as well as the construction and maintenance of an electro-component. The total costs associated with this project have been estimated at 67.8m euros, and the European Investment Bank has expressed its willingness to co-finance a 25m-euro loan project, while the remaining amount will amount to 42.8m euros, increased of course for all fiscal contributions, will be financed by the state budget and the budget of units of local and regional self-government. The repayment period is 20 years, the period of implementation is from October 2011 to December 2014. From this project which will be financed, so projects or sub-projects of transport infrastructure, unclassified roads, local roads, county roads in settlements, means footsteps, hiking trails, bridges, public areas, parking lots, transport infrastructure in economic areas, which we keep in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community that it is really good that this part of the development, that it has entered into financing means also infrastructure in economic areas which represents a major item in the completion of the already started economic zones. Furthermore, electricity infrastructure will be financed, meaning low voltage networks, trafostations and public lighting, high voltage network, electrical infrastructure in economic areas as well. The social infrastructure will be financed further, these are preschool facilities, homes for sari and powerless, sports halls, playgrounds, cultural homes, health homes and infirmarys, local self-government facilities and the like. And environmental protection projects will be funded, such as waste dumps and waste recycling facilities. The area of implementation of this project is 13 continental counties. It is Zagrebačka, Krapinsko-zagorska, Sisak-moslavačka, Karlovačka, Varazdinska, Koprivnica-križevačka, Bjelovarsko-bilogorska, Virovitičko-podravska, Požesko-slavonska, Brodsko-posaviska, Osijek-baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska and Međimurska. Here on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community I would like to invite all units and local and regional self-government that have well-prepared projects from these areas that I have cited, which are the subject of financing this project, to run means their projects for this so-called. EIB project 3. After means and funding from European programmes and preparation itself, let's say we know from the CARDS programme, from the CARDS and through the IPA, etc., it certainly has a large number of well-prepared and quality projects, and now it is an opportunity that these projects, given this width of projects that can be financed from this project, that the possibility is given and through this project means that they really improve the standard in all areas of the Republic of Croatia, and they will launch additional investments and employ new people. So here, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80636	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. It is up to the distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here is another law confirming the loan of the European Investment Bank. It has already been said to include land infrastructure, namely we have on the agenda these days and another European Investment Bank loan on the coast and island infrastructure. So it is clear that in all these years where we have been preparing and indeed to say it was our ability to deal with projects, to deal with the conditions that the financiers from, whether it is financial institutions such as the European Investment Bank or it is the European Union through our own grants, that we have come to a stage where there are a large number of projects that want to be financed and that we finally have and increasingly a leprosy and an increasingly wider circle and number of projects that can be financed. Here is only from this loan, it is worth 25m euros in this part, but the total is almost 68m euros, 130 programmes in 13 Croatian regions will be financed. I think that's what he's saying, and when you look at statisticalally, so almost every region will get 10 projects, within four years they have to be implemented. I think it will significantly in all these counties to which it relates will improve life. She has already spoken to her colleague Marinovic about what they refer to. I think it is important to see that these projects are really going, they have often been objecting to the use of the European Union's funds to not actually be seen at the local level at the impact of these funds, to finance the things that come from the central state, that they are large infrastructure projects, etc. Here is exactly one loan that will enable, or one project and a series of sub-projects within it that will allow a lot of small projects that will significantly change the quality of life in those regions to which they apply. Let's just say that when you look at what can be financed in the transport infrastructure sector, so municipal road infrastructure, public lighting, sidewalks, stakes, hiking trails, cycling routes, public parking, it was usually thought that these things were mostly reserved for large cities, so big cities can afford to arrange their own environment. However, the time has come for these projects to be implemented at all levels. As far as projects concerning social infrastructure are concerned, I think it is equally important and infrastructure in the field of education, health care, social care and culture, etc., homes for older people, kindergartens, here this does not apply to the City of Zagreb, but Zagreb itself has major problems with kindergartens that it does not know how to solve, schools, municipal health centres etc., sports centres etc., etc. So for all these reasons, I think it's worth supporting a bill like this to confirm this loan. He has the same conditions as the previous ones, so he can be paid off for up to 20 years, a five-year-old start, and I think that in times when every new project that he's actually going to hire people who are going to work on it, so it's not just the final result of what we're going to benefit from the social community, it's also a benefit as long as it's done. Someone's gonna work on it, someone's gonna benefit from it. I think that in these times when the economic crisis is that it is extremely important that we can finance these in this way, too, and that people can welcome the better times ahead when conditions are generally going to be better in Croatia. Here's for all these reasons I want to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80638	Thank you. And distinguished representative Zeljko Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As we can see from these two points of the agenda, we can immediately conclude that they are actually intersects and connected, when we are talking together about municipal infrastructure, or infrastructures that are related to the life of cities, counties, and above all, where our people live, then we come to one conclusion that I dare say in cities and municipalities this topic that we have been talking about for the last hour one of the fundamental thesis in each unit of local self-government. I will not look back at the bill itself at this moment, so it is clear, I welcome it, so as another part of the investment's contribution to creating a prerequisite for a better life for all of us, it is necessary to repeat once again the finding relating to the past law when it comes to these investments, often in the means it is seen, but when it comes to purifiers, when it comes to therefore quality work on dumps... It is a job that requires a lot of money, and very little is seen what has been done and actually a citizen in an appropriate way cannot assess the severity of these procedures and what it really means in life. [[You don't understand.]] But I might comment here and perhaps even ask for a little comment on what awaits us all in the time ahead, and respecting one side and the upcoming structural funds and the possibility of obtaining grants, this may be a question for a fellow state secretary, on the subject of money, is a question that, unlike today's pre-accession funds in which, through accounts that are immediately exposed to certain works, money can go to payment, in structural funds, it will not be so, which means that the project will first need to be implemented, therefore, to pay from some sources of funds, and then to return the money if everything is okay, i.e. Of course in contaminating the comparison therefore with all the grants that are grants at the end, but they are not in the first stage and my actual question or comment to all of us that the state must prepare to find a way to bridge the funds until the grants are obtained back, and given when we talk about this, this topic, this item, therefore, this is a loan, so it is probably under favourable quality conditions, but certainly local self-government units have part of their participation. So the question is whether there is sufficient possibility in the context of the situation in which cities and municipalities exist and whether there is the potential for these units of local self-government to monitor and so on. the grants that they are, ultimately, if all is well done, but the question is how to find the money that would exactly be the project that is linked to the grants financed and... That's when you put it on credit. [[You don't understand.]] Not to mention, in the city where we live at this point, we're going towards structural funds with about 50 million euros in funds that we've asked for 85, 70 to 85% of the funding that's coming back, but there's no realisation project if 40 million euros are not foreseen somewhere in the city's budgets, in the budgets of the state or some third institution that will allow that until the programme is completed and until its evaluation is passed, we find this, this cash money. The situation is that I also welcome the question about this loan, but I point to something that in the times ahead will absolutely come to us as a problem. In a conversation at a European meeting with the mayor... He took a loan of 4 or 5 million euros to bridge the situation until the European Union funds come back to him, so in a situation where cities, municipalities are or are not solvable, we are now in a situation where we have to think very seriously about it. [[You don't understand.]] I'm putting that back in line with the time that was behind us, so we started off with pre-accession projects, so it was the first finding and here it was said that the good part was the money, and it was hard because we didn't know the quality of the phase... to make projects, then in these last year, two, three, four extremely well educated, there are a large number of municipalities, cities and all interested people who have responded to a large number of projects, and now we have come into a situation that, by quality and good choices, we have to secure in our budgets the money as part of co-financing, this is the problem that I have today and in my city, so that I have to find this moment or in the rebalances when a few million kunas would come as part of the city's funding to come just like this. [[You don't understand.]] I am pleased, therefore, and I said in advance that I am giving, and I am positively determining myself according to this part of the loan, but it points to a situation in society that will be in our midst very quickly in the times that are ahead of us in view of the Law on fiscal responsibility and responsible spending of funds, we could find ourselves in an unprotected cluster of monitoring of quality and good programs, in which we will find ourselves in a situation where we will not have enough resources to monitor them, so I am only saying this as one example that I am in my midst and then in the good part of the other environments we are already a little bit on this day, and I expect that in the time that we are actually going to have such situations even more. Thank you, I certainly support the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80640	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80641	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Land Infrastructure Loan Project (integral development of the local community), the emergency procedure was P.Z. No. 911, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Finance Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the Land Infrastructure Loan Project (integral development of the local community). Please engage and vote on this final bill. This final bill was adopted unanimously, with 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80642	Moving to point 11. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 913 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary at the interior ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80643	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship wishes to bring the existing law in order to remove the shortcomings observed in the current legal application. The internal legislation in the area of citizenship is aligned with the legal legislation of developed European states as well as the conventions in force in Europe. The most significant changes to the current law have been made easier to include and integrate applicants in Croatian society on the basis of legal and real residence, more detailed provisions relating to the regulation and length of stay for Croatian citizenship on different legal grounds. This requires permanent residence approval for the acquisition of Croatian citizenship on all legal grounds, ending the gradual integration of foreigners into Croatian society. Also, the length of regular stay needed to gain Croatian citizenship has increased from 5 to 8 years. In the future, persons born in the Republic of Croatia should be released from their current foreign citizenship, reintegration after their release from Croatian citizenship for the purpose of obtaining foreign citizenship is allowed subject to additional authorisation of residence in the Republic of Croatia. On the one hand, they want to reduce cases of multiple citizenship, and on the other hand contribute to demographic recovery through the acquisition of citizenship of persons returning to the Republic of Croatia. The concept of members of the Croatian people and the concept of emigrants is more clearly defined in order to interpret these concepts in a consistent manner. And by installing this provision, the new provisions, made it easier to acquire Croatian citizenship based on residence in the Republic of Croatia by persons who had residence in the Republic of Croatia on October 8, 1991. years, they live in the Republic of Croatia, and so far they have not acquired Croatian citizenship. And more articles are also governed by the powers and competences of the two ministries acting under the law of the cases of citizenship, which are the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of the Administration where their powers, competences in the procedures of acquisition of Croatian citizenship, are more clearly, more precisely and normably clearer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80644	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80645	We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, was an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 913, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Boro Grubisic. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be made aware of the amendments made by the MPs. Mr. Ivica Buconjic, State Secretary. First, Mr Boro Grubisic, Amendment 1 to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80646	Amendment 1 is not accepted. The intensity of the proposed article is that only elderly persons are free from the obligations of knowledge of Croatian language and Latin scripts as well as culture and social order, in order to avoid the legal situation so far that they are admitted to Croatian citizenship by persons who are not even minimally integrated into Croatian society, do not have a basic degree of knowledge of language, letter and culture. For members of the Croatian people, a privileged procedure for obtaining Croatian citizenship is prescribed in Article 16 which is prescribed that a member of the Croatian people does not have to fulfil other conditions as other non-Croatian foreigners. Therefore, only persons who are at least integrated in the Republic of Croatia must fulfil that assumption if they are less than 60 years old which is incomparably more favourable than the regulations of all developed European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80647	Thank you. There's no one on behalf of the club. I ask that we vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. Who is for this amendment please raise your hand. No one. He didn't get a pass. 2. Amendment to Article 5 of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80648	Amendment 2 is not accepted because of the fact that Croatian citizenship on this basis has so far been sought in practice by persons, descendants of Croatian emigrants, such as the sixth or seventh generation. The situation was repeated for Croatian citizenship to be obtained by persons who had no real connection with Croatia, neither language nor culture nor Croats, nor intended to settle in Croatia, and they needed citizenship solely because of a Croatian passport with which they could travel around the world, enter and work in developed countries. For members of the Croatian people, the acquisition of Croatian citizenship under Article 16 is privileged. Nationality law, no matter where they come from. For their spouses who are not members of the Croatian people, it is also intended to facilitate the acquisition of citizenship under Article 11 of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80649	No club representatives. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't pass, he didn't get any votes. We move to Amendment 3 to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80650	Amendment 3 is not accepted. That amendment would completely repeal the purpose of receiving Croats under privileged procedure and privileged criteria in Croatian citizenship. The proposed amendment suggests that it is enough that grandparents were members of the Croatian people and that the national identification of applicants is irrelevant. The proposed Article 9 of the amendment and addition of this Act stipulates that belonging to the Croatian people can also be confirmed by the behaviour of applicants in terms of active participation in Croatian cultural, scientific, sports associations and abroad. This allows numerous members of the Croatian people living in foreign countries where there is no possibility of national declaration... to make Croatia's citizenship easier. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80651	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. No one, it didn't pass. Amendment 4 of the same Proposer to Article 19
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80652	Amendment 4 is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on foreigners to quote: Exceptionally from Article 92 of this Act, a permanent stay may be granted to a foreigner who was resident in the Republic of Croatia on the day of the 8th of October 1991, who is a beneficiary of the programme of return or renewal or housing, which is demonstrated by the confirmation of the competent national refugee body and which has been found to have returned with the intention to live permanently in the Republic of Croatia. It is not a large number of persons, but since the vast majority of refugees who have met the conditions for obtaining Croatian citizenship are also granted the same, it is clear that the right in this easier way to regulate permanent stay and then to obtain citizenship is only for persons who are covered by the programme of return of housing renewal and who have really returned and live in the Republic of Croatia. They lived in the Republic of Croatia years ago and had a registered residence, and the only advantage in obtaining Croatian citizenship is only with regard to the necessary duration of stay in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80653	There's no proposal. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? He didn't get any votes, he didn't pass. Thank you, Secretary of State. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Citizenship. Let's please get involved and vote on the final bill. This final bill was adopted by the majority of votes, 76 votes for and 1 against, 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80654	We move to item 12, which is - a proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace missions of the United Nations Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government has proposed this decision on the basis of Articles 4 and 5. Law on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, civil protection and civil servants and deputies in peacekeeping operations and other activities abroad. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Pierre Simonovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80655	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament a few words about the proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions in 2012 and 2013. It is specifically about 7 United Nations operations of which one is new, a new one launched by the UN, and the proposal is that the Republic of Croatia also participates with its Armed Forces. This new operation is being conducted in South Sudan. As you know, South Sudan is one new state and the international community through UN instruments, trying to contribute to the establishment of the new state's instruments. For this operation, we think it is particularly important that the Republic of Croatia participates as a country that has and has significant experience right on the plan of building state instruments. From the point of view of the international interests of the Republic of Croatia, such a form of contribution to the International Community is important by proving our credibility in the International Community. As far as other operations are concerned, the continuation of participation in operations at the Golan High School and Lebanon, Cyprus, the Western Sahara, Liberia and India and Pakistan is concerned with significant geostrategic points in the world in which the international community's presence is extremely important for the maintenance of peace and stability. In a number of them, the Republic of Croatia has been participating for some time. The most significant contribution to the Golan High Force where our pedestrian company operates. It is also about a place that has been particularly strategic lately because of the Arab Spring, because of everything that is happening in that area of the wider Middle East. So in this sense, our participation is extremely important from the point of view of the international community... To mention only one thing, it also concerns the ability to equip the UN forces through the engagement of our military industry and the dedicated industry and the food industry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in this regard, we have recently established contacts with the UN. So our participation in UN missions has several functions. One of course is this contribution to international security and strengthening the national role of the Republic of Croatia in the world. The second is the development of our capabilities as Armed Forces and police forces. And the third is also more and more opening these opportunities for the placement of Croatian products and services related to these operations. All operations, of course, carry a certain kind of risk, but our assessment is of course that in this balance between interest and risk balance is definitely on the side of the benefit. And perhaps another final note, it is also about operations in which the Republic of Croatia participates not only with forces but also with increasingly pronounced specialities that include the behaviour of significant command positions. It is of course also about strengthening the role of the Republic of Croatia as members of NATO and of course as future EU members. Here, if there are any questions. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80656	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Marija Pejcinović Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80657	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here is the Republic of Croatia as a responsible member of the UN for a number of years has been active in various areas of the work of this world organisation, and in the field of protection and peacemaking has been active for the past 12 years. Before that time, Croatia was also a beneficiary of the UN peacekeeping mission because of its aggression on its territory, and this experience further strengthened the belief of the need and the usefulness of helping others who, for various reasons, have been helped by this kind of need. In addition to this high-value task of preserving and creating world peace, however, participation in the RS peacekeeping missions is confirmed as an active participant in international politics and thus legitimateises it for responsible international duties. The best example was certainly membership in the UN Security Council in 2008 and 2009. In accordance with the legal provisions, the Croatian Parliament is responsible for making decisions on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in international peace operations and missions, and since the existing decision concerns the period 2010 and 2011 it is necessary to make a new decision to determine the participation of our armed forces in the next 2 years. In 2012 and 2013, a very detailed report on each individual mission in which the Republic of Croatia has participated in the past two years, as well as an assessment of the security situation in the area in which our armed forces are located, the type of duty entrusted to them as well as an assessment of possible changes that will reflect a possible increase or where such a case is a reduction of the necessary engagement of international forces. Here, the secretary of state spoke about how much we intend to participate in the next two years, I will go very briefly into the most important places where our armed forces are today, which are their tasks, and what are the needs assessments for the next two years. So, the first United Nations peacekeeping mission at the Golan High School since 1974 has been a peacekeeping mission there. The mission is to maintain a truce between Israel and Syria, to monitor the interruption of hostilities between the Israeli and Syrian forces, and to monitor the area of separation and exclusion as provided for by the agreement on the interruption of action and separation of forces. The ruling is therefore, in one of the parameters in the resolution, which went towards the Secretary-General that the next report will need to include a verdict and a recommendation to change or increase the operational capabilities of the UN DOF, as it has abbreviations this mission for the implementation of the mandate. So much is the proposal that we received from the Government that the number of our Armed Forces in this area is increasing, given that the overall increase in forces in this mission is expected to increase, this is the mid-risk mission that is today, we know ourselves that this area is very thorny that in the context of the Arab Spring but also in the broader context that tensions have increased in this area. The next mission is the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, which has been operating there since 1978, its task again is the area of the Middle East extremely important, linked to this other area anyway. Its task is to verify Israel's withdrawal from Lebanon, to maintain peace and security, to assist in verifying Israel's withdrawal from Lebanon, to maintain peace and security, to assist the government of Lebanon in the establishment of administration throughout the state territory. the security situation within the UNIFIL responsibility zone is still assessed peacefully but unstablely, significant security events or security incidents shall not be recorded. Our Armed Forces in the field of this mission are scheduled to be in the next two years to four members of the Armed Forces. The next peacekeeping mission is Cyprus's one and only European-going mission at the moment, has been there since 1964 and the initial purpose is to prevent further conflicts between the Turkish and Greek communities in Cyprus and normalise relations. I think we know more about this because this is an area that we are close to and it is about one member of the European Union and the predictions are that, very low risk of this mission, we are still expected to have a positive development of negotiations and it is recommended that our Armed Forces there have up to four members in the next period. The next mission is a peacekeeping mission in the Western Sahara, which has been active since 1991, so after an agreement has been reached between Morocco and front Polisario, which provides for a transitional period for the preparation of a referendum in which the population of the Western Sahara could choose between independence and integration with Morocco. As regards the security risk in this mission, they are related to the existence of high concentrations of leftover mines and unexploded means of killing, the danger of physical injury, the threat of snake bites by poisonouss, scorpions, etc. Therefore, our peacekeeping missions have been there since 2002, and we expect the continuity of participation in this area and expect Croatia's armed forces to participate in this mission to the same extent as they have so far. The UNMIL peacekeeping mission in Liberia has existed since 2003, is tasked with conducting investigations into violations and carrying out investigations into violations and its provisions on the protection of personnel and facilities of the United Nations, support for humanitarian activities and protection of human rights, support for security reform and implementation of the peace process. The situation of security in Liberia, the United Nations assesses the peaceful but unstable and therefore the members of our armed forces in the UNMIL mission have been stable since October 2003, until now, one of the missions in which we have reduced the number of our members to 2 were now located before 5, and the peacekeeping mission is quite stable, it is expected that after the elections, there could be a significant reduction in the number of military personnel and so much is proposed to continue the participation of our members with 2 members of the Armed Forces. The United Nations peacekeeping mission in South Sudan, Mr. Secretary of State, spoke about it, it is a new mission, it replaces the earlier mission we had in the Sudan area since 8 July 2011, its mission is quite broad but can be undermined by three basic groups, thus supporting the consolidation of peace by strengthening the long-term construction of state and economic development and providing support to the Government of South Sudan in the area of conflict prevention and civil protection, and providing support to the Government of South Sudan to develop capacity to maintain security, establish the rule of law and strengthen the security and justice sector. The proposal is to include the Republic of Croatia in this new United Nations peace mission in the South Sudan area, as the mission will certainly be challenging in view of the mandate and role in the construction of the newest state in the world, so the state of South Sudan. Something about the safety assessment is somewhat higher than the previous one, but it will certainly, like these other operations, provide an opportunity to gain experiences that could be useful for the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. And the last mission we take part in is a peacekeeping mission in India and Pakistan since 1948. The mandate of this mission is to ensure the implementation of an existing ceasefire and to refrain from hostilities in all areas of conflict until all armed forces are withdrawn into their areas and positions. How complex the mission is shows how long it takes. Of course, the situation in that part of the world is also not simple at all, it is certainly complicated because of Afghanistan and everything that is happening there. Therefore, the security situation in the field of operation of this mission has been marked by several incidents related to the operation of anti-government elements in Pakistan. Namely, after Bin Laden's death, it is certain that the security conditions have deteriorated there, but in any case, the area in which our members of our armed forces operate has not been in danger and threatened. The proposal is for our peacekeeping mission, so our members there have been participating since 2002 and the proposal is to continue to participate in this peacekeeping mission in the present range. Therefore, according to the increase in the ceiling of the number of possible participants in international missions. Thus, it is proposed that the Republic of Croatia and its armed forces participate in 7 missions in the next period with a total of up to 146 members. Since the experience of our representatives in these missions has been extremely good and beneficial and this is a great opportunity to gain experience and improve the capacity of our armed forces and certainly to gain the reputation of our country in the international community, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of the proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80658	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's our guest, Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 For years, they marked 19. The anniversary of existence. During that period, the Croatian army grew into modern armed forces from defenders of the attacked homeland. The Republic of Croatia has become a country of peace-strengtheners from the recipient country. The admission of the Republic of Croatia to full NATO membership is a political recognition for adopted democratic standards, recognition for the contribution to the construction of international security and for the efforts made to transform the defence system. Participation in international peace operations is in line with the strategic definition of the Republic of Croatia, which places our country among the responsible members of the international community willing to take part in efforts to achieve general security. The Croatian Parliament's decision to participate members of the Armed Forces in UN peacekeeping missions regulates participation in peacekeeping missions in 2010, 2011 according to which members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participated in a total of 8 UN peacekeeping missions. Compared to 2009, the Republic of Croatia reduced the number of peacekeeping operations in 2010, as well as the total number of staff employed and joined the concentration of forces in a small number of UN peacekeeping missions. As the decision of the Croatian Parliament is valid for 2011, it is proposed that the Croatian Parliament make a new decision approving the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN peacekeeping missions for 2012 and 2013. The new decision of the Croatian Parliament proposes to participate in 7 peacekeeping missions. It's in the Golan High Court, Lebanon, Cyprus, the Western Sahara, Liberia, the South Court, and India and Pakistan. Croatian Armed Forces are now successfully accomplishing their missions and tasks both abroad and abroad. They assist civil institutions by shutting down fires, emergency medical transport, and other emergency situations. Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are participating in numerous international peacekeeping operations and missions of the UN, NATO, the EU from Kosovo to Afghanistan. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia continues to pay full attention to further transformation of the defence system and, in accordance with budgets, provide the necessary conditions for the further development of the armed forces under new circumstances resulting from the entry of the Republic of Croatia into Euro-Atlantic integration. Here, for the sake of this, I will support making this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80660	Thank you. I am closing the debate and we will vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80661	We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I would like to stress that Article 7 is in line. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to make this decision requires a majority of all MPs, so at least 77. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the United Nations peacekeeping missions. Please engage as much as possible and let's vote. I find that most of the votes were accepted by the motion for a decision to participate with 126 votes to, 3 abstentions and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80662	We move to the 13th point of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Art Education, second reading, P.Z. No. 868 Proposer Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, provisions shall apply to the second reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Želimir Janjic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80663	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. Let me briefly mention the final proposal of the Law on Art Education and I will concentrate only on the differences between the first and second readings convinced you that you all know what we had in the first reading, and what is proposed in the second reading, but also convinced that all our professional public, all of our schools that closely followed this debate also know well what was in the first reading, and then there will be enough respecting the time you need for other points to make, in fact only these necessary differences that I will explain. So we're talking about part of one segment of primary and secondary education that has not been legally regulated so far as the rest of the parts are normised but only by the art education rule in primary schools not even in secondary schools, which, of course, created difficulties in the functioning of these types of primary and secondary schools. First, I will say that we have accepted one large part of your suggestions that you have made in the debates, and I am taking this opportunity to thank all of you respected MPs and MPs for helping us find better solutions compared to first reading. So when it comes to enrolling students or the age limit in Article 4 there was a dispute over point 9 which said that other than all the 8 categories that we are talking about, the required number of years in general to enroll students in a particular programme, that the decision to be particularly gifted could be extremely and differently entered, that the school board should be taken. Your proposal was not to be a school-controlled body because it may not be as competent as the teaching council in that section, and your proposal was to be a teaching or teaching council and we accepted that proposal, and now we have in this solution that it will do so as a teacher's or teacher's council. In addition, Article 13(2) concerns the follow-up to schooling. It was also intended to be a solution that would be decided by the school board, your proposal was to be a teaching or teaching council and we also accepted this proposal. The next thing you know, it's about artistic curricula. In fact, since the art curricula as a final document has not yet been made, we haven't really had that ambition until the law is passed. We operated on concepts of artistic curricula, i.e. curricula and program. However, as your suggestions were to equate this statement, we used only the expression of artistic curricula here, but then in the transitional provisions in Article 26(2), we said that until the adoption of artistic curricula, existing curricula and programmes would be applied. We have also amended your suggestions and deadlines for the adoption of certain regulations, i.e. deadlines for schools to comply with the provisions of the law. So we shortened the time limit for our minister to four months, which we think is enough, and then left the schools with a deadline to coordinate for six months. In fact, it is planned that all this necessary work on the alignment and adoption of these regulations would be completed by the summer, that is, by the beginning of the next school year. If it had stayed for a year as it stood then we would have had it only somewhere in the middle of the first half, which is quite awkward and then it's actually a little harder to apply. This is perfectly clear, by summer all these necessary jobs will be completed in the new school year 2012/2013. will be able to enter by applying the provisions of this law. The exception in these deadlines is the only provision that speaks of our music schools in the composition of the open school regiments. This is where we set the deadline until when it should be done and it is until 31 August 2014. So wherever we have music schools in popular open schools, there are 14 of them in the Republic of Croatia, which are of course founders of cities, and we also predicted that founders other than units of regional or regional self-government could be units of local self-government, so also cities. We have determined that this deadline will be the end of August 2014, so we have a lot of time, more than two and a half years to bring this job to an end. When we talked about it in the first reading, there might have been little misunderstanding in the professional public to separate music schools from the mere open schools because they do not work well there. That's not true. That's not true, those schools work well, we have lots of bright examples. I could mention one as a common denominator for all these good examples, let's say Mali Lošinj in which a music school with 60 and some students works extremely well and we at the ministry are well known that they have adventurous concerts, to mark bread days with their concerts, day music of the city, to organise joint concerts on Cres and Mali Lošinj etc. So, all the cards actually for that kind of work, but when we talk about this, we're talking about a system solution that's actually much better for the whole education system and that's going to put these schools in the same place we have in other cases. Whether it will be an independent school in certain environments or be an integral part of other music schools or perhaps elementary schools, it depends on the middle to the middle. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture has proposed one amendment proposing that, after Article 4a, we also have Article 4a where we are talking about the establishment of a sectoral council for artistic education that can consist of subsector councils, it has as a rule up to 20 members, and the Minister of Science in charge of education appoints this sectoral council in such a way as to appoint from the Education and Education Agency a direct member and relevant institutions for art education, and for the other members of the proposals it gives the departments responsible for culture, employers, chambers, trade unions, professional associations, the National Association of Persons with Disabilities, higher education, art education institutions and other stakeholders. This sectoral council is a partner-based advisory and expert body that shows the needs of the labour market, higher education and all other components of Croatian society through the definition of the necessary artistic qualifications, the analysis of existing and necessary competences within the sector, and the sub-sectors of making proposals for the production of standards of interest, giving an opinion to the Agency on the necessary content of artistic qualifications, promoting sectors and the possibility of employment within the sector, the provision of a proposal for a network of artistic curricula and institutions for artistic education and the identification of profiles within the education sector. It is foreseen that the Education and Education Agency shall ensure in its division the resources for the work of this sectoral council. This was modelled by the current 13 sectoral councils in the system of vocational education. And for these reasons, we accept this amendment on behalf of the promoters, and we think that this is a good solution and that we will have that solution as we have in the system of vocational education, and it might be a shame that this is not done. The applicant therefore accepts this amendment of the Committee. And in conclusion, allow respected MPs and MPs to say that by adopting this law, this legislative framework, this regulatory framework in basic and secondary education, will be rounded up, and we will no longer have any segments that are not covered by regulations. Of course, this will primarily help all of our school institutions, all our music, dance schools, all of our art schools, that in one law they actually have everything that is necessary, without being scattered by some other laws that they will have to be called upon in their regular activities, and that will also make it easier for all those who have obligations to these schools whether it is agencies that carry out professional supervision, whether it is an inspection that also has their powers in this education system. We therefore believe that by passing this law, we will round up this normative framework relating to primary and secondary education, and believe that all of our art schools will be extremely satisfied by the adoption of this law and say that they are finally being paid attention to, and we are actually going to finish this very demanding job in the last 8 years, which is of course expected of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80664	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the clubs, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80665	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Democratic Community and coalition partners, because we are obviously the only ones here today interested not only in the final proposal of the Law on Art Education, but also in all the points of the agenda that are important for the future of our country, but obviously the lack of interest for work and for the future of our homeland today is lagging behind, so we are only in this issue. To return to the proposal, the Final Proposal for the Law on Artistic Education, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, has considered and examined the final bill submitted and will support its adoption. As the secretary of state said, it is a law that for the first time in Croatia regulates an area of art education that has not been solved or arranged in an adequate manner, therefore by special law. This also marks the end of the work done by the Government and the Resolute Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, norming the entire system of education at one level, from pre-school to high school. So just to remind you that we have passed the Law on Preschool Education and Education, the Law on Raising and Education in Primary and High School, the Law on Professional Education, the Law on Adult Education, and everything necessary for the establishment of all agencies. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club support and welcome what the draft law was done with the profession, because it is a guarantee of the quality of the bill's proposal, and then its quality application and implementation, as we appreciate that this law was in regular procedure here in the Croatian Parliament, and the working bodies and representatives in the debates at the plenary session in the first reading had the opportunity to improve the bill's proposal, and we heard from the secretary of state and as we see in this proposal delivered, the proposer respected and appreciated some of the proposals presented and incorporated it in the final draft of the law. The Art Education Act regulates the activity of primary and secondary art education through a system of related degrees of education, from the primary school preparatory level for high school, and the secondary school level of art education. The law defines art programs as music, dance, art, drama and others, which is defined according to the type of curiculum. Basic dance education is conducted in a four-year period, basic music education in a six-year period, and secondary art education in a four-year period, with the preparation of dance education for a secondary school being performed according to a one-year curricula, and the preparatory music education for a secondary school of two years. With the preparation of music, or dance education, students acquire knowledge and ability to continue music, or dance education without having previously completed basic music, or basic dance education. In this way, students who have been taught in private or were members of the folklore group have access to high school music or dance education, and I believe that, in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we believe that this is enlargement and promotion. But let us return to the problem, that is, the area of artistic education in the Republic of Croatia, which has a hundred-year tradition, and then let's say that in the Republic of Croatia, 90 schools attended by 19 thousand 789 students who perform elementary and high school music and dance programmes, and 12 secondary schools attended by a thousand 687 students who perform art and design programmes. And this is the data from school 2009/2010. However, it was not always so that we should return and see how much it was in the mid-80s, according to the data there were 2 thousand 669 students in art education, so that we would not forget the Homeland War that interrupted this segment of life in Croatia, slowed it down to '99/2000. The school year was 13 thousand 622 students covered by artistic education and 2009/2010. 19 thousand 787 students. Let us not forget that in the last four years more than 250 new teachers and professors have been introduced into the system of primary and secondary art education in the Republic of Croatia, which should be thanked to the Croatian Government and the clearly resolute ministry for the great understanding and promotion and this segment of education in the Republic of Croatia. Clearly this law defines the establishment of an art school, in a way that founders can be the Republic of Croatia, a unit of regional (regional) self-government, a unit of local self-government, and another legal or physical person. The secretary of state spoke of a particular problem of perception of the bill which said that art schools, i.e. mainly music schools, should be separated from open schools by 2014 as it stands now in this bill. At the HDZ Club, we too advocate that artistic education is linked to a network of primary, or secondary education. Because like boredom, so until the adoption of this Law on Artistic Education, musical departments could be founded in existing primary schools. We advocate and welcome the vertical in all environments because if we say that there are 90 art schools in the Republic of Croatia, do we know which number of these 90 is in Zagreb, and do we know that Croatia has more than 550 units of local and regional self-government including the City of Zagreb, then it is clear that we still have a large part of the area that is not covered by artistic education, and we are simply trying to make this part available to children and young people in the Republic who have, who are gifted and show interest in artistic expression. It is very good that this law also defines the financing of art schools from several sources, in line with the Strategy for Development and Founding Rights, from the state budget, the budget of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, the dedicated funds of cultural institutions and institutions at local level, the means of founders when the founder is a second natural or legal person, the revenues made by the performance of their own activities and other dedicated revenues, participation, the resources of other entities, sponsors and interested institutions. Why is it important here to determine how the institutions are financed? Well, there are environments, i.e. founders, who strongly argue that an art school is being set up in their midst, but then, for these or those reasons, they are not ready to finance its activities. And it should not be forgotten, and so far music schools, whether primary or secondary, have been financed from decentralised funds. First of all, I don't want to forget about the state budget, where they're getting paid. Then from the centralized funds of the units of local and regional self-government to which decentralised functions have been transferred, and also part of the participation paid by the parent because we know that only primary education is mandatory and free in the Republic, and this is also one form of guarantee and parent, or guardian, that the child will enter the programme and attend and finish. And not to go any further, the secretary of state particularly welcomes what you have observed, i.e. we welcome all the proposals that you have made in the final proposal of the law, and have been presented here in the Croatian Parliament, which has shortened the application, i.e. the obligation to coordinate acts, i.e. the statutes of art schools from the year to 6 months in order to make the next school 2012/2013. For years, she could go according to the Law on Art Education. From the above mentioned club HDZ supports the adoption of the Law on Artistic Education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80666	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote once the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80667	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on Art Education, that was the second reading, P.Z. No. 868, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment, it was not voted on and became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Art Education Act. Let's please get involved and vote on this final bill. This final bill was adopted unanimously, with 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80668	We're going to go to point 14. And that's what we're going to end up with today. It is - Final proposal of the Air Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 852 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Environmental Protection Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Nikola Ružinski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80669	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you the Air Protection Act in the second reading. So, I'd say just a few of the most important pieces of this law that are as news days in this final bill. So the difference between what was in the first reading. I would particularly like to point out that we included the observations and proposals made in the public debate in this law, in particular from those given by an organised air protection association with all interested parties, so that this law also contains answers, i.e. by adopting those observations which were included in the law, and also by giving opinions in the parliamentary debate and obtained by the European Commission which also examined that law. Therefore, one of the most important parts is Article 28, where the State Air Quality Monitoring Network is given to manage the State Hydrometeorological Institute while air quality monitoring operations will be carried out by accredited reference laboratories. It has also been done, so it was one of the perhaps biggest public-to-public disputes, i.e. the professional public, and it is one proposal that probably reconciled all those and ambitions now and maintained quality, ensuring the quality of measurement to be carried out. In Article 42, where there has been a lot of debate and this Assembly has determined that in the area of the second category, therefore the categories of air which are not the first to be satisfied, the first proposal provided for neither the local or construction permits for new facilities could be issued. Therefore, it is possible to grant a permit for the reconstruction of one of the facilities if the construction ensures a replacement of the existing non-satisfactory with some new source that has reduced air pollution or if the environmental impact assessment process determines that that law will not distort air quality. During the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, a deadline has been set for the full establishment of the emission trading system as of 1 January 2013. As you know, this law consists of two main parts, one that covers air protection, and the other one that is related to climate change is one of the important parts within the European Union but also globally in the fight against climate change. So, this law has now completely resolved this system so that this one provision to start being part of the trading emission system... within the European Union since 1 January 2013, so six months before Croatia becomes a member, is a way to assign to their accounts the proportional part of the emission units to which they belong for each calendar year. So, the system starts to operate every calendar year even though we would not enter into the emission trading system at the beginning of 2013 our industry would be cut off for these free emissions and would be in an unequal position with the others but as agreed with the European Commission not to enter six months after entering but six months before we settled this Law. In addition to the added Article 108, which provides for the monitoring obligations of greenhouse gas emissions to aircraft operators. Therefore, air traffic also enters the emission trading system, although one year later, not since 2013 but from the beginning, not from 2012 but from 1 July 2013, so on the date of entry, but thus enables these airlines to exercise their free emissions rights. So I think that these are the most important items except for one thing that we have introduced into this Act, which is in Article 117, which gives the government the authority to decide on the proposal of the Ministry of Mining and Environmental Protection to make a decision allowing the geological storage of carbon dioxide, and it is prescribed that the regulation further declares that this is the CCS system of catching greenhouse gases from the production of energy when it comes to fossil fuels and it is usually stored in abandoned oil or gas wells, today there are experimental plants throughout Europe and around the world are already working, one of the possible... reduction of greenhouse gases, with the possibility of building thermal power plants on fossil fuel. Which is also important in the energy system itself. So, what I said was accepted were the proposals of the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environment, from the debate also of the Committee on European Integration, so all that was presented in the Assembly in principle was accepted. We have received two amendments to the Environmental Protection Committee for this debate and I hereby declare that we accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80670	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the club's turn first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, renowned representative Marina Matulović Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80671	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Madam Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. The basic legal document defining policy and measures to protect and improve air quality of climate and ozone in the Republic of Croatia is the Law on Air Protection of 2004 which was adopted under the Law on the Protection of the Environment and All Until then known Directives of the European Union. In order to further align Croatian legislation with the legal acquis of the European Union, the Croatian Parliament adopted in May 2008 the Law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, which entered into force on 5 June 2008. The Law on Air Protection amending and supplementing the part relating to the harmonisation of provisions with the environmental law adopted in the meantime in 2007, but also the legal framework for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted documents and implementing regulations on the importance of air protection and climate protection, thereby completing the transposition of the legal property of the European Union, which was adopted by the end of 2007 into Croatian legislation. Air pollution is a serious problem, a time in which we live and has a significant impact on human health, quality of life, and has a harmful impact on all environmental components. The emissions of sulphur and nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, heavy metals, floating particles of benzene, sulphur hydrogen, ammonia and other substances from various sources are the main source of these pollutants. It is known that the main sources of air pollution are the burning of fossil fuels for energy production, industrial processes and transport that are increasingly playing a leading role in urban air pollution. A particular problem is the possibility of spreading and transportable pollution at large distances, which dislocates the consequences of the cause, and is often due to emissions of industrial areas, the collapse of ecosystems, some distant natural habitats. Air pollution does not know the state borders, and this area is one of those that requires the highest level of international co-operation. Croatia is in the accession negotiations process until Chapter 27 is closed. In December 2010, the environment brought its legislation into line and thus air protection with the legal acquis of the European Union adopted by 2008. As you can see, every year in the European Union directives, a lot is changed. Today in the Republic of Croatia, the Air Protection Act and the air quality monitoring rules, air quality measurements are carried out through the state air quality monitoring network and through local networks carried out by counties, cities and municipalities. At the same time in the area of the source of pollution, pollutants must carry out monitoring of air quality through stations of special purpose. Today, there are 146 measurement stations in the Republic of Croatia on which air quality is measured, 35 of which are automatic stations, 42 classic stations and 69 stations that measure only the total storage. The state network continues to develop and in 2010 it was released into the work of new 12 measurement stations that monitor air quality in protected areas and areas affected by cross-border air pollution. Within three years of the entry into force of the air protection law in the European Union, significant legal documents have been adopted in the area of air protection of climate, ozone layer protection and the treatment of fluorinated greenhouse gases, as well as 28 regulations and decisions of the European Union and a series of international contracts requiring significant changes to existing laws. On 27 April 2007, the Republic of Croatia ratified the Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which took effect on 28 August 2007. Therefore, the draft law transposes the elements of the EU Directive adopted after 5 June 2008 and the gradual harmonisation will be completed by adopting implementing rules. And everything I've talked about so far is included. This law lays down the responsibility and responsibility for air and ozone protection, climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation, the adoption of planning documents, monitoring and evaluation of air quality, measures to prevent and reduce air pollution, air quality reporting and data exchange, air and air quality monitoring activities, the management of substances that damage the ozone layer and fluorinated greenhouse gases, monitoring greenhouse gas emissions and measures to mitigate and adapt to climate change. Then the air protection information system, air protection financing, ozone layer, climate change mitigation and climate change adaptation, administrative and inspection supervision and the provision of fines for non-compliance with the provisions of the law. A significant part of the proposed law concerns reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, as is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia as party to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. The law prescribes the basic elements of the greenhouse gas emission trading system in the Republic of Croatia, which includes installations from the industrial and energy sectors, refineries, coke, metal, cement, paper, ceramic, glass industry in total 72 plants. As of 2014, aviation activities have also been introduced into the trading system. As regards the large cost for the period 2013 to 2020, certain industrial facilities will be allocated free of charge. Plants which achieve emission reductions below the quota level may sell the surplus to installations whose emissions exceed the permitted quotas. Given the great efforts needed to combat climate change and adapt to their inevitable effects, the law prescribes the payment of 95% of the financial resources achieved by auctioning quotas to the Special Account of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Funding of projects in the field of research and development to reduce emissions and adaptation, development of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, clean technologies, reduction of transport emissions, improvement of forest resources, etc. Emission reductions should be carried out in all sectors and emission limits should be introduced for agriculture, household waste management, transport, etc. Croatia has seen a percentage of the growth in emissions from these sectors up to 11% in 2020 compared to the 2005 level. In view of the accelerated growth of greenhouse gas and transport emissions, the obligation of the fuel distributor to monitor and report greenhouse gas emissions in the life span and the gradual reduction of emissions by 6% by 2020 is prescribed. Years from 2010. The area of climate change includes all economic and other segments of the State, therefore inter-resorship cooperation is an essential prerequisite for effective implementation of emission reduction measures and adaptation to the climate changes prescribed by the proposed law. By passing a new law, we are awaiting demanding systematic institutional and organisational changes and investment in the best available techniques in order to meet the objectives set with regard to reducing and preventing adverse impacts on all environmental components, as well as on air quality. This proposal for air protection laws is specifically addressed by the air quality system and the climate change protection and protection system of the ozone envelope, which is particularly important for every citizen and for the protection of the environment as a whole. As the proponent said, they accepted all the remarks and proposals from the first reading, the HDZ Club will accept this bill as one of the really valuable laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80672	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The Honorable representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80673	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's the thing. I'll be short and my colleague, Dropulic, and the secretary of state said everything. I would like to be here in some way I know that we are all aware of what air is and what it means to us, but in a way to remind ourselves of all this and why it is important to have this law and why it is important to the future and to preserve it. So it's said that without food, we can live for weeks without water for days, but life without oxygen is measured in seconds. The oxygen and breathing depends on our life, so here's the beginning of our life birth begins with breath, that is, oxygen and first breath. What's that air? We call it the Earth’s gas envelope by air, i.e. The atmosphere and the most represented gases in the earth's atmosphere are nitrogen and oxygen to a lesser extent, and noble gases are present, but some of the pairs in large cities and various industrial pollutions. Although the atmosphere provides up to 500 km of altitude compared to the earth's radius it represents a very thin layer, narrowed to the surface. Another good-looking piece of information is that we breathe 20 thousand times every day and add 12,000 gallons of air into our lungs to get the oxygen needed for life. It's important to know that these 20,000 inhales and quality oxygen supply, it's not the same as if we're in a closed area or we're somewhere in the environment, it's woods or some kind of sea air then the quality is higher. Scientists and medical experts are increasingly aware of the crucial connections between time, climate and air composition, and health and life. For centuries, people have been able to set up well enough according to the effects of time and climate by adapting their shelters, food production, energy security, and lifestyle according to conditions of time, climate, and the environment. In recent decades, however, the increase in the number of inhabitants, increased energy consumption and industrial development, and the pollution that has resulted in negative effects on human health. Thus, asthma, heart disease, lung cancer, and other medical conditions in humans are worsened or even caused by a decrease in air quality. In addition, air pollution has negatively affected the global economy, water and food safety and sustainable development by harming plants, crops and ecosystems. It is interesting to recall that Hippocrates still around 377 BC, which many consider to be the father of medicine, rejected prejudice and began scientific observation and classification of diseases and established a series of moral and professional standards that still apply today. His work from the 5th century B.C. on air, water and places considers the effects of climate, water supply and the environment on human health and compares the geophysical conditions of life in Europe and Asia. At the time of the Hippocrates, there were generally only four elements: earth, air, fire and water, with their properties of cold, dry, heat and moisture. If they exist in the human body in good terms and in the right places is the result of good health, but if the balance is disturbed then health is also disturbed. Today we know that both trace gases, as well as air particles, have a significant impact on climate, weather and air quality. Meteorologists, air-conditioned and atmospheric chemists continuously contribute to the understanding and mitigation of negative effects on time, climate and air by providing environmentalists, medical and other relevant experts with prognosis and analysis of the spread, concentration and movement of gases and particles in the atmosphere. Here's what I wanted just a little bit as a supplement, and here's the end of the debate, to say about the debate and about this law. And now I don't want to go further and talk about what my colleague Dropulić was saying, as we spoke on the board and the secretary of state, but only that we would really support this law. And what's even more important is that last Friday we passed a new law, Penal Code. Here are provisions concerning protection and atmosphere and air within this Penal Code. We can see how in reality consciousness has already gone beyond the basics that normal and normal air is clean, we have to keep it safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80674	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met. This concludes today's session. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with point 2.- Final proposal of the law confirming the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the 5C Completion Project, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 898. Thank you very much and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-26-0.u80675	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Air Protection Act, this is the second reading, P.Z.E. No. 852. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Environmental Protection Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendments and they became an integral part of the final proposal for a law in accordance with 169 of the Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the final proposal of the Air Protection Act. Please, let's get involved and vote. It has Appendix E. This Final Proposal of the Air Protection Act is accepted by most votes, 83 votes to, 1 abstention and nothing against. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. We continue with the 24th session and the agenda point that we already announced yesterday, which is - - The Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Investment Bank for the "project of the completion of the VC corridor", the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 898 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? He does. Okay. Mr Tomislav Mihotić, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you go.
