ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u831	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we're looking for a break of an hour and a half. Mr. President, you're yesterday. Come on. [[Come on!]] I'm discussing my proposal next. [[Intruder President: Please explain.]] We got the materials, the government program of the Republic of Croatia five minutes before the start of the session you scheduled at 9.30 last night. We sat here till almost half the night. You've scheduled a 9.30 session. Five minutes before the session began, we all came. This is where you informed us the session starts at 10:00. Yesterday you had a break for over an hour when you were preparing the materials for your session, so please do according to what you did yesterday. We're looking for a break of an hour and a half for the material we've received five to half a dozen.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u832	Thank you. I must inform you that the materials are divided into benches at 8 o'clock. We said that yesterday as soon as we could, and I'm giving you a break from the Rules of Procedure, and I think half an hour's break is enough. Here's a half-hour break, so we're back to work at 10.35. And the SDP club pauses for half an hour as well. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate with item 10 of the agenda. You want to be a representative of the HDZ? Here you go. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u834	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is common that when a break is requested, the club president should contact why we asked for a break. In these two days, gentlemen representatives, colleagues and colleagues have shown you are extremely ignorant of the way the Parliament works and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament work. It's embarrassing, first of all, the way you ran the session yesterday, delivered materials, we protested yesterday at the Croatian Parliament and it happened again today. This is not a reading comic book for half an hour, so we asked for an hour and a half because we believe that at least for us HDZ representatives in the Croatian Parliament, this should be read a little more thoroughly because it is a government programme that you want to present today to the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian public, the citizens who chose, both us and you. It's very unserious how you're going, it's very unserious in how you... This High House, the Croatian Democratic Community is calling you Mr. President, since I see you are not in the process that you should be leading as president for all of us, to get the materials in time in the future. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] We got five to half 10, you gave a half-hour break, you said yesterday that half an hour was impossible to get, and you had an hour just to copy the material, so we ask that in the future when it comes to such serious documents you take seriously the mandates and duties of the representatives for whom we were elected by Croatian citizens. Once again, I ask the Chair and auxiliary bodies of the Parliament to treat the representatives of the Croatian Parliament in the way they should be treated, because we are all representatives of which Croatian citizens have given confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u835	Thank you very much. You've now given me a lesson here about not knowing the Rules of Procedure, etc. I'm asking you to make an argument in the future, not to talk about it on a casual basis. I don't want to talk about it at this constitutive session anymore, we'll have a chance to see how the Rules of Procedure is respected and how. We continue the debate with item 10 of the agenda – 10. Presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the vote of confidence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, allow me to briefly remind myself of the constitutional position and responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia exercises executive power and is responsible for the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Republic shall, pursuant to Article 98. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia entrusts the mandate for the assembly of the Government to the person who, based on the distribution of seats in the Croatian Parliament and the consultations carried out, enjoys the trust of most of the MPs. In accordance with Article 110 of the Treaty on The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the members of the Government a person to whom the President of the Republic has entrusted the mandate for the composition of the Government. Immediately after the formation of the Government and no later than 30 days after the adoption of the mandate, the Prime Minister is obliged to present the programme to the Croatian Parliament and ask for a vote of confidence. The president of the Republic entrusted the government's mandate to Mr Zoran Milanovic. I ask the Prime Minister for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, to address the representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u837	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. All those who sit behind the will of the Croatian political people and Croatian citizens, MPs of the Kukuriku coalition, representatives of national minorities, representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union, representatives of Croatian Labourists, HDSSB, Independent Lists of Don Ivan Grubisic, Croatian Party of Law Ante Starcevic, Croatian Civil Party, and if I missed someone, I apologize, but I don't think I, all of you sitting here today, but not just sitting here and working, is behind you the will of Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens from the city and from the village, from the suburbs, from the plains, from the mountain. Croatian citizens who have one or the other worldview, Croatian citizens who believe and those who do not believe, Croatian citizens regardless of their nationality, religion and sex. And in all my performances, actions, I will take great care of that. This is the first time I have the opportunity to propose to the Croatian Parliament the Croatian Government. For me, it's a huge responsibility, a huge responsibility, but at the same time a huge joy, and a huge chance. The crisis we're in always has the element of threat and the element of chance. We want this to be a chance for Croatia. The government program that you got on the bench and which is how it usually is, and I ask you for understanding, always comes to the benches late, but at the same time that program was our contract, an informal contract with the citizens in this campaign, and in everything that preceded today's, or yesterday's constitutive session of the Parliament. We've been communicating this program for weeks and months, and behind us is a campaign that was hard and full of hard words, and I'm not going to look back on it here, as I'm giving you my word, and so I'm not going to look back on what was before. I will resist all my strength in that in debates that will be fierce and fierce, I am not pointing my finger at those who will be opposition and telling them what they or their predecessors were doing a year, two, five, or 15 years ago. It is barren, useless, and bad for Croatia. Of course, at the same time, I don't have the illusion that politics is possible without conflict, that Parliament is possible without opposition, without different opinions, or even without obstruction and provocation, the only thing I appeal to, and I'm aware that I'm not knocking on a closed door is that we find important issues of minimum consensus. We did this yesterday at a meeting organised here in the Parliament, where we agreed very quickly and quality to support together what is important for Croatia, this package of several European decisions, as regards the referendum and the decisions on association. But I repeat, as much as I call for consensus, I am aware of the conflicting nature of politics, the diversity of attitudes and interests. What is important is that in this political struggle, as much as possible, we have more general interests, that we define them very clearly and broadly, and that we are little or no hostages of special interest, corporate interests of various pressure groups or narrow party profit interests. It is not good for Croatia, and I believe that today is not because we and I are proposing to the government here, but that today we are turning a new page and a new chapter in the political history of our young country. Young countries whose institutions we are yet to build, young countries whose institutions we must protect as sacred, as something without which we are not a state, are not an organization but a random random choice. But I believe that's not what we are. We're in a very difficult time. This crisis, of course, is not more difficult than the one faced 20 years ago by Croatian citizens, defenders and all those who fought for Croatia and who built it, this is harder, sorry it was harder, it was harder. This is the challenge of another species. Here we are now showing whether we are able and capacity from Croatia to build a successful round country, a closed state. As the character of a person is concluded at some point, so is the state at some point locked down. I believe that in the next few years it is possible for both world-wide and economic to conclude Croatia, but not to lock it. We have before us EU membership, a project, a mission many in this country have been working on. The negotiations were concluded by the previous Government of Ms Jadranka Kosor, and I thank and congratulate you for that. There's no mystery there. Before that, some others have done it more or less successfully, but all with the same intention and with the same mission and vision that Croatia as a small country becomes part of a single space in which it decides on things that concern Croatia and in which the Croatian word and Croatian attitude is important and crucial. And I deeply believe that for a small country like ours, it is crucial for a small market to be open to the world. And that's a lesson in our history for centuries. Whenever we were open, even when we weren't state, we were more successful or successful. Both Dubrovnik and other cities, and continental cities, wherever our ancestors lived, regardless of faith and ethnicity, were successful when they were integrated and well arranged, when they played by strict and clear rules. When they weren't or when we weren't wherever they were, whoever they belonged to, whatever empire or former Yugoslavia, and when we were more incarcerated to the world and in terms of ideas both in terms of human freedom and in terms of foreign trade, exchange of goods, services, intelligence, intelligence, we were weaker ideas. The chance of small peoples is in an open society and in an open market, provided we know what our values and sanctity are, provided we protect the weaker, provided we fight for social justice, but know what it is. And I don't see much difference between us. I repeat, I have no illusions. I don't see any big reasons. And I believe that in that spirit, this Parliament will work and do the government that I'm going to propose to you here. And will work in the spirit of that program. The program of our government, the government program I'm going to propose to you and whose support, the support I'm going to ask you for, is the program we've been talking about for months. He's more or less familiar and clear to everyone. Of course, I don't want to underestimate this audience or the Croatian public and say I won't talk about it here, I'll talk about it. The program at this point is probably similar to what any majority, every prime minister here would offer. Maybe not the same, but similar. It comes down first and foremost to the fact that Croatia cannot function in this way anymore and that we cannot spend money we have not earned. Croatia is not a country in chaos, Croatia is not, I will not now mention here any of the European countries that are in difficulty, but Croatia is not one of those countries. Croatia is in a slightly better situation, but at the same time in a dangerous situation and at a turning point. Croatian public finances are tense and we can no longer be in debt this way because simply no one will give us that money anymore, and if he gave it to us, under the conditions that open up to us, we would not be able to pay it back. And that's where we enter a closed circle into the obligor of the vitiosus of debt, insolvency and economic stagnation. It's clear to everyone. How do you get out of this? That's a harder question. It takes a lot of determination, needs a clear vision, needs a goal that is the same for all of us, needs measures, and finally, to not take myself too seriously, or myself or my associates, we need a little luck. But not just luck, happiness in itself isn't enough. Croatia must limit public spending, Croatia must consolidate its budget, Croatia must have fewer budget deficits and Croatia must develop and grow. I don't think there's any dilemma about it and it's clear to everyone and everyone wants it. The key question is exactly where to draw the line, where to draw the line in public consumption, where to draw the line in the budget deficit, where to turn the story? Because if we turn the story around now, there's a chance for us. Croatia, when we talk about the budget, and it will be the first major challenge and the tasks of our government, has reached a point of tension, we cannot go on. We will have to reduce budget spending, the budget of the Republic of Croatia realistically and nominally. How much? That's the key question here. The more we can be financially sustainable, the less we can suppress development, growth and chances of success. In this situation, the state is very important. As a politician who is left-handed and liberal left-handed, I am very much in favour of human rights and freedoms, to open society, to the rights of minorities of all ethnic, national, religious not to count, but I am also aware that in this situation, especially in a small country, there is a need for a stronger and organised state. Not ethical states, not countries that stick their noses into your private life, which tells you what to do and what principles to live by, but countries that are organized, which sets out clear rules for people to treat, to whom companies behave and to whom they know what will happen if they respect them, and what will happen to them if they do not respect them. In that sense I believe in Croatia as everyone here and everyone outside this building. I believe that we are able to compete with the most developed and most orderly countries of the world, some of which are bigger, and some less, to be successful, to achieve ourselves and to raise your self-esteem. And all the time during this campaign, me and all of us were talking about self-respect as a key substrate of Croatian success, only then is pride because of the pride in these areas whenever someone beat him up in the drums, he often raised his hair and gnawed his skin. Self-respect is something else. Self-respect is a self-awareness and a state where you respect yourself and you are respected by others. Pride was often marked by the fact that you were proud of something that once upon a time your ancestors were that you didn't live alone, that you didn't realize and that it doesn't really have much to do with what is today. We can only achieve self-respect by being independent, independent, successful, rich, to our masters who will be respected in their environment and who will respect their environment and build a fair and successful society in which every Croatian citizen will be financially independent, but at the same time be aware of the membership of a community that, without Community rules, cannot function and cannot go on. Therefore, under number 1 fiscal consolidation, law enforcement and clear rules in state finances. I'm not going to say that chaos was left behind, because chaos wasn't left behind, at least we believe it, but a tense situation was left behind. We see what's happening around us, there's time to turn around, and the will in this government is even more. When we talk about the functioning of state institutions, much has been said here and in Croatia in recent years about fighting corruption and war corruption. We want something else. We want a policy without corruption and society without corruption. Fighting corruption in itself is not a goal, it is a means, and it is a necessary means to resort to it at a time when things get out of hand, when corruption is so strong in society and politics that it cannot be against it but by force. The second time is a policy without corruption, a society without corruption, that's what children learn, that's what we witness by example. You'll never hear from me in this House or in public that ridiculous statement, "I'm fair," I believe no one of my associates. It's an impression thing, that's what others think of you, about not pointing your finger at yourself, but you have to try to serve an example, without big words, without pretentiousness. Society without corruption, politics without corruption. Jake institutions, independent courts, independent and professional police apparatus. My fellow Members and colleagues, my goal is that in the next four years, and as far as I believe this government will work and serve Croatian citizens, that everyone in politics that is not from the ruling majority who is mayor out there or somewhere in Croatia can sleep peacefully, if he knows that he has worked by law and that he is clean or clean. And he doesn't have to think about whether the police will file a political complaint against him. Whether his or her political orientation will have any consequences or connections to the work of the police. It's a very important thing. Please remember what I said. This is very important to me. That's what I'm going to insist on, and I'm going to fight for it, and I'm going to choose the highest quality associates for it. The same goes for the state administration. There was a lot of controversy here yesterday and it was good to see you. I want to assure you, I give you my word, that I will personally insist that the highest-quality personnel, people, officials, civil servants in the public administration, above all in the ministries and agencies remain working there, regardless of these changes we have announced. That ministers will rely on outside assistance, as little as possible and only where they feel necessary, and where they have the natural right to bring a narrow number of associates, I was formed and I grew up among others in public administration. In one ministry that was new at that time, which was founded, which was the green field of the Croatian foreign ministry, and I watched as people there during the mandate of the unilateral government, mostly outside the parties working for Croatia, were not party-marked. And I'm taking that picture with me and today as a candidate for prime minister, I haven't erased that picture from my mind, from my memory, and it's very important to me. I repeat, that's a promise. Watch and conclude for yourself. There will be mistakes, there will be failures, there will be misjudges, there will be disagreements, there will be quarrels, but that's the direction we'll go. I give you my word for it. Croatia is as strong as its regions. Croatia, on the other hand, is a highly centralised state. Croatia is a country where 90% of public spending is being made and decided in Zagreb, where we now live and where we work. Where some of us are from, but many of us aren't. Such Croatia is centralized to the level that it is blocked and that everything depends on the will of a relatively small number of people, relatively small compared to the total number of people. We talk about decentralisation all the time. This moment may be the most ungrateful economic moment for major changes in the state's functioning system, but we will not give it up. We will deal with this problem very quickly because we want people to decide as much about their lives as possible where they live, but not until the point where Croatia begins to fragment. Croatia must remain unique and complete. On the other hand, wherever people live, wherever they form some kind of nuclear community, wherever they have some common social and economic interests, there must be local self-government and there must be money for it. And that money will have to be given up by the central state, regardless of who is in power in Rijeka, Zadar, Osijek, Split or Sibenik, fully independent. I will take great care of it and it will be very much in my heart, because I believe in local self-government and see how badly Croatia works in this way. We see how much Croatia is left to do with the arbitration decisions of a small number of people. I see how much this is holding Croatia back and I see how much these changes are needed and how many people want them, but only to the point where we do not fragment Croatia. And any change in the system of local and regional self-government will first and foremost have that in front of our eyes when we make such decisions. This is about Croatia's new structure and everything we've been talking about for years and months now, and what we're just about to do. We've talked about this program and with members of the national minorities. We did the interviews, heard their wishes, their legitimate interests. Part of it is in our program, and part of it will be proven through daily work and practice. Croatia has a heavy burden of war and disagreement between its citizens. I think this is a twist and we have to leave things like that behind forever. The work of the previous government that we criticised was on the one hand marked by this type of cooperation and some changes and steps were made that took Croatia in a positive direction. We will continue and show that with representatives of national minorities in this House, even in the executive power, we are counting as full partners who will have to, and I am aware that they will and are willing to take on more levels of responsibility for national policy. So not only will they be representatives of national minorities but also Croatian politicians, no matter what religion or nation they are. Because in the ranks of our coalition, I know it, although we never count it, and I believe maybe even in yours, there are people who are not all from the origins of the Croats. So not everyone is raised in this sense in the same way, we are all citizens of Croatia. We all walk this earth, breathe this air, and have the same interests. To get up in the morning happy and calm, we go to work to make sure our children or grandkids don't get sick, and if they happen to get well taken care of. Social rights and the social state will be defended by every means possible. There must be no painful cuts, it must not be because it will cut off perhaps healthy tissue. Of course we'll have to be more rational, we'll have to be smarter in the decisions we make. We need to retain the rights we've been building as social society for the last 60 years. We must be aware that some of these systems may not be the most economically rational but valuablely well built after World War II. Such systems never existed before. Such systems in the field of education, health and social care have allowed thousands and thousands of difficult workers to make quantum leaps in their lives, to be educated, or if they get sick to be treated. And those are the things we're going to keep. And these are the things that the previous government kept. I can't say it wasn't, she was paying attention to it. Maybe there was a little too much calculations around here sometimes. I can say it's on our side it won't be, I might say. As far as numerous civil society social groups are concerned, they are open to action, but we do not want to invite them in any way or myths. We're open to dialogue. We'll talk to the defense attorneys directly as partners and friends because there's no difference. With Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we will have a simple friendly dialogue. So it's not just our constitutional obligation, it's not just written in the Constitution, because you can change the Constitution. That's something we believe in. Here you have seen that in yesterday's amendments to the law was not among the central state offices envisaged and the office for Croats outside the homeland, but that office will be. So he's foreseen by the law that passed this Parliament a few months ago. That office will be. It's another office. So there won't be any figs in your pocket. That's what it's gonna be. Because it is important to us how our countrymen live outside Croatia, especially in BiH, that, above all, they are citizens of another neighbouring country that is currently in a difficult state and that we need to help function. Let me say a word about foreign policy and not because I've been doing it. I used to work, and the reflexes may have given me a bit of a break, but because it is important how Croatia is projected outside of Croatia. It's important what kind of image we have in the region, how much we help our businesses open up the region to earn, to hire, to pay taxes. Policy towards the region will be friendly and open but will primarily be driven by Croatian interest, the interest of the Croatian state. I guarantee it. We will avoid conflicts but we will defend Croatian interests towards all neighbours. But I am aware that without this region, the Croatian economy has a much less chance, that this is the region without any Balkan integration, that we should immediately clarify in which Croatian companies have the greatest chance because of tradition, because of knowledge, because of the proximity of the market, because of the similar language, because of everything that was 50 years earlier, and no one in this business interest wants to erase. In international and European relations, we will lead a self-aware policy, again aware of who we are and how many we are and what our financial potentials are. In the EU, we will fight for Croatian interests. In the world, depending on the circumstances and possibilities. In the EU to get back to it, we sit at the table, we have a number of votes in council formats according to weight. So far, we have talked for the last six years about what the EU is asking us to do. This is an aquis, this isn't an aquis, but they're asking us, this is the directive, this is the regulation. Soon we become part of that system, soon it can no longer be an excuse. Soon our people, ministers, but also officials, some of whom are now working in the government, will represent Croatian interests in Brussels and EU institutions. They will fight for the concrete interests of Croatian trade, agriculture, industry, transport, environmental protection as fully autonomous and independent negotiators and agents of the Croatian government and Croatian state. So far, I dare say, we have not implemented major reforms. We adapted and harmonised to a complex legal system that was offered to us on the side as a criterion. If you want to get into that system, you have to meet those criteria. That was not too much to negotiate. And that's not reform. Reforms are carried out by real statesmen after a lot of thinking from both the heart and stomach and instinct, but independently, not under external pressure. This wasn't under external pressure, this was a necessity and it was a good necessity. But it's only now that the real reforms begin. Only now do the real reforms of those systems we manage begin. All that I have stated so far will be the Brussels policy in which Croatia will participate. But what makes a difference is what makes Croatia the key to our belief separates from other countries as an even more successful state, in Croatia, in Zagreb, in cities and regions, on the functioning of the state, on justice, on human rights, on a number of other issues which therefore distinguish successful from a failed state, we decide what kind of education we will have, on how much we will invest in education and paying for the teaching staff that educates our children at low wages, how much quality hospitals we will have. Whether Zagrebačka and other Croatian universities Rijeka, Splitsko, Osijek and a series of universities will provide a quality competitive service or not. That is what our success depends on, not Brussels's decision. That's what we decide. Both today and in five years and in 10 years. If we are smart, we have great resources at our disposal to improve this system with our own policy. Again, as experience shows, some EU countries have been more successful in this, and some have been less successful. Some have lost years, and some have been able to cope immediately. It all depended on the quality of the administration and the quality of the policy. Our experience isn't bad. Yesterday, a colleague, Pusic, said here, as of today, I believe a member of the government, that a single consensus and agreement and understanding on the country's strategic priorities on the road to the EU has actually been reached in Croatia in 10 years. As a diplomat, and later as a politician, I followed these processes in other countries, spoke personally and privately with many stakeholders, statesmen, ministers, government presidents, then later, and found out and saw things. Our example isn't so bad, we're not so bad. Too often we have a total of too low and underestimating opinions, conditional on everything and everything. That's our big problem, that's the self-respect I'm talking about. We have to get him back. Not that heavy pride but self-respect, and then others will respect us, and we will respect ourselves. Your colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs and representatives, shall be presented to you with a government programme in accordance with Article 110. The Croatian Constitution. He's not just a wish list, he's not a shopping list, he's a life for Croatia. In its achievement, in achieving its objectives, using these methods that we have listed here, but not just them, we will try to achieve the best. I know that the path to hell is filled with the best intentions. These are good intentions, and in our case, I don't believe. I believe in a better and stronger, better-organised Croatia, a democratic Croatia in which democracy is paid, in which work is paid, in which the work is paid, in which the tax system is fair, in which there is primarily a wealth of speculation and at least work because workers are usually always the hardest and most exposed and in this crisis where there is solidarity between the public sector and the private sector. Private sector, I tell you as a person who has spent her entire life, mostly her entire career in the public sector, a private sector that employs the most and creates the greatest value, in which entrepreneurs, most of whom want to work and earn for themselves and hire people, in which a small minority has speculative and dishonest intentions. We need to start helping these people to breathe, to drag this country forward, that those who are the strongest and the strongest and regional ones are even stronger, and that those who are currently not for a number of reasons go after them and catch up with them. And why not, as a rule, are not due to the difficult circumstances of the latest history. The entire Croatian region, Slavonia above all, are victims of war, perhaps not the most successful policy, because in Croatia politics decides everything and decided everything, and most of all about public money. It's not good. To this Slavonia, I promise our Slavonia special care, but do not worry about what kind of child or immature person you provide but about what kind of care you give to someone you care about and who you know must be equal and must be better. For such a small country as Croatia's regional differences are incredibly large. We're not a country of 40 million inhabitants or 20 million or 100, we're a country of barely 4.5 million people. For such a country, the differences between the west and the east, the north and the south are inaccessible. I'm not accusing anyone of that because I believe that any government so far wanted to even it out, that it wanted to if nothing else to sign up as its bonus, as something that it could go to the voters and say look, we did it, but so far we haven't been able to do it. Slavonia and then Dalmatia, which is in a slightly better situation than Slavonia, are our big, big goals and important priorities. We're not going to discriminate on political criteria, we're not going to see who's mayor. They have not done so, to go back in history but in one other way, it has not been done since 2000-2003, the entire cities and regions in which our parties were not in power, nor today, have they prospered because of projects the government has encouraged and launched in the general Croatian interest to connect Croatia. The second government continued, in a less or more successful way, sometimes in a very successful way, sometimes in a less successful way. If I don't hold you back, there'll be plenty of time for speech for both discussion and criticism. This isn't a utopian speech. I know you're going to attack us right now, you're an opposition, you live off it, and that's completely legitimate. I appeal that the less we use the hard words, the less the insult. In this we will believe that we will have strong and quality cooperation and this chair chair, whoever is behind him from his colleagues and colleagues, to be aware that in this crisis that is great we have a chance, that we have to make a turn. If we do it now, if we're together in this together, the credit for it isn't just going to go to us, it's going to go to everyone. I know that in this political fight of chess and outwitting we will all look, position ourselves as best as possible, but the common high interests in this House must be Croatian interests, and the Croatian interest is for everyone who lives in Croatia, was Croat, Serbian, Italian, Hungarian, Czech or any other of our many minorities represented in this House and those not represented in this House. I believe that, and politics without faith is empty and hollow, it's gone. It's a special kind of faith. And these choices and this government are a struggle for faith, for good human faith. Take my word for my colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. [[Applause.]] And now let me comply with Article 110. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia I present the Government in this House, whose trust I expect you to give to the Croatian Government. Mr. Zoran Milanović, Prime Minister; Radimir Cacic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy; Milanka Opačić, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth; Neven Mimica, Deputy Prime Minister; Dr. Branko Grčić, Minister of Regional Development and European Union and Deputy Prime Minister of the Government; Slavko Linić, Minister of Finance; Ante Kotromanović, Minister of Defence; Vesna Pusic, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs; Ranko Ostojić, Minister of Interior, Orsat Milenić, Minister of Justice; Arsen Bauk, Minister of Administration; Gordan Maras, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Defence; Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension Systems; Zlatko Komadina, Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure; Tihomir Jakovina, Minister of Agriculture; Veljko Ostojić, Minister of Tourism; Mirela Holy, Minister of Environment and Nature; Ivan Vrdoljak, Minister of Civil Engineering, Minister of Culture and Culture; Minister of Culture, Minister of Health, Minister of Education, Minister of Education; Minister of Health and Minister of Education, Minister of Culture, Minister of Education, Minister of Culture, Minister of Health, Minister of Culture, Minister of Health, Minister of Health, Minister of Health and Minister of Health, Minister of Culture, Minister of Health, Minister of Health, Minister of Health, Minister of Health, Minister of Health, Minister of Health and Minister of Health, Minister of Culture, Minister of Health, Minister of Health, Minister of Culture, Minister of Health, Minister of Health, Minister of Culture, Minister of Education, Minister of Education, Minister of Culture, Minister of Culture, Minister of Culture, Minister of Culture, Minister of Culture, Minister of Culture, Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Culture and Culture and Minister of Minister of Minister of Culture, Minister of Culture, Minister of Culture, Minister of Culture, Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of Minister of the Minister of Minister of Government. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, this is the Croatian government I propose for the next term. Please give her confidence. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u838	I thank the Prime Minister and open the debate. In the name of the National Minorities Club, Mr Furio Radin's representative first called, please. ... No one did, I was just wondering... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, here, we didn't register it. No one registered at the chair, but okay, maybe that's our failure. So correcting the incorrect, you answered Mrs. Lovrin. And who else answered? No one else. Here you go, Mrs. Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u839	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here I am correcting an incorrect quote next. Mr. Prime Minister said that there will be no and that it is not a hostage of special and personal interest but will pass laws in the general national interest. That simply is not true, or it could be true if he thinks it will be applied tomorrow. But already, here was yesterday a couple of excellence laws of personal interest, out of the interest of two men that she might enter today into a certain function. It is certainly not a national interest to adopt an organic law, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, past the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, past the good democratic practice of the European and so far Croatia, and to adopt electoral legislation retroactively for two years to act backwards, which is also a precedent in the practice of democratic states. It's certainly not a general national interest. And he also said the prime minister wants a state without corruption. I claim that political corruption took place yesterday in this Croatian Parliament Because democracy has been abused, and most people's will has passed the procedure of the law because of their personal interest. [[President: Your time is up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u840	Thank you. Here's another confirmation of the need, I have to point out this moment, to review the institute of correcting an incorrect quote because the other side doesn't have the simple right to answer. But we'll discuss it with a special procedure. So, I'm opening a debate like I said. Mr Furio Radin has a word on behalf of the National Minority Club. Here you go. Excuse me, you've got a little longer to talk than many have told me to interrupt, so please. I'm a man of tolerance. I'm asking you to be tolerated, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u841	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Trusting the government is one of the political but also valuable and symbolic most important moments of every parliament and every state. It is also an opportunity to say something to those who perform and to those who leave the executive office. I don't intend to help the winners or give up those we've worked with for years. There's a few myths we need to get rid of. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Milanovic for saying the same thing in some ways, and those of the left center are natural allies of those who are different from national stereotypes by their characteristics. After two decades in Parliament, eight years in opposition, and eight with power, I have to say, I can't define only those four years when the left coalition was in power. It was a mandate full of tension and indeterminateness, often two-faced towards us and an atmosphere that was anything but friendly. The mandate in which the old, former mistake continued when we were in opposition to national minorities and laid the foundation of a new, also bad relationship with us until today, when a part of the politicians of that age moved to the Constitutional Court and were dealing with politics, other means, because the other in life had never even worked. Whatever we thought of Eva Sanader today, I say there was a positive attitude towards national minorities at the time and that he was consistent. Such a policy was continued by Jadranka Kosor and the minorities recognize it and remember it. When I say that, I want to say that even in politics, and maybe right in it, you need to have the strength to tell the truth and that it is stronger when it's shown in moments when it's unpopular. And once again, I thank Zoran Milanovic, because of course in a more relaxed way he said it. So much for those who are losers today. We ask of the winners, of course, respect that comes not from our number of parliaments, but from our history. What Zoran Milanovic said earlier encouraged us in such a belief that a promotional policy would be implemented and I thank him for that. We are not the only victims of totalitarianism and 20 centuries. But still someone liked it or not, for sure, the ones that were the longest. Just for the sake of establishing trust, we want to underline another fact, once again, the fact that from the list of the population of 1945, this should be clear because there are historical reasons for ours behind our policy. From the age of forty-five to today, the census lacks a million members of national minorities, a million. Today, on the threshold of Europe, we do not blame anyone and we also know about the sins of the politics of our native peoples. But we warn those who remain in spite of the ideologies to build relationships that others have successfully corrupted and our role is far more important than our present number. This role is eminently political in the best sense of the word and absolutely folklore. We are not the problem to solve, nor the disease to be treated and with healing this should be the only country in the world, the state of equal citizens, despite the fact that they will continue to be poor and rich, employed and unemployed. Those who are guilty but outside of prison because they have a good lawyer and those who are innocent and can't afford it in prison. Those who are men so there are 80 percent in parliament in the government and those who are... That's why there's 20% of them in Parliament and Government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But some analysts, which is the term for some professors of philosophy and politics, are already claiming today that we are the basic obstacle that Croats must overcome to finally become a civil society. There is no solution to the issue of national minorities. Others did this infamously historicly. We are not even a security problem on the way to a solution which should be celebrated by our own, as some say in newspapers and colleges by getting kicked out of parliament because we are a problem of the purity of representative democracies. We know that's what's going on, this government doesn't think. Even guarantees it in his program. All I'm saying is that we disagree. We disagree, we agree with what the government thinks, and we disagree with what these analysts think. In the end, we're just proof that this isn't a society where we're all the same, it's a place where we're all different. And not just that. Thus, it must remain only on one far higher and noble level, one where differences are respected and are not unjust. Finally, it is known that there are differences between us and this new government that we support with regard to the interpretation of the infamous Constitutional Court decision on additional voting rights, and a special form of voting for national minorities of more than 1 and a half percent. This difference remains and will continue to be the subject of political struggle, we are not satisfied with the fact that we do not have signed agreements, so only a small part of our demands entered into the government's programme. Yet we are aware of the moment of the country, and we trust the future prime minister and his intentions. That is why we will give the initiative initial support to the government, most of us are not part of the coalition, so without a signed agreement for us, support will be external and conditional on further government actions, and our freedom to vote or not to vote for certain legal solutions is actually unlimited. You have our support, Mr. Prime Minister, with the hope that she will remain in full command. Your words a few minutes ago encouraged us in this and hope, but the road ahead is long, thank you and good luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u842	Thank you very much. The next word came in line on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS Mr Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u843	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We who have participated several times in this act, or act like this, know that they can differ greatly and significantly. In my opinion and in my sense, what we are doing today and the elections we have passed are not just one of the choices, and this is not just one of the constitution of the Parliament and the choice of another Croatian government. In my feeling and in the sense of the club I belong to is about the day, it is about decisions that can be measured with the most significant days and the most significant decisions that the Croatian Parliament and Croatian politics have made. Not so much for the sake of us who are gathered here and who swore yesterday before the Croatian Constitution, but because of what the people who chose us expect from us, what we expect from us the circumstances and times that gave us the opportunity to do something about the values we have sworn to and the values we believe in from our perspective and our beliefs. Indeed, Croatia is in my humble opinion in the situation of starting to write new pages, that after 20 years it begins to write new chapters, not only because of the fact that we are becoming a member of the European Union, but also because of the fact that there are many changes around us in the world, that the values of wild capitalism, that the values of neo-oliberal, disorganised and weak society are facing a great challenge, and we, as a country with all our transition weaknesses, have suffered from the weaknesses of such concept and from such a model. And as far as we're concerned, as far as the Independent Democratic Serb Party Club is concerned, we really understand this day as a day for a new beginning, in which, as the predecessors and Dr Radin and Mr Milanovic have said before, we will take the best of what we've done, take the best of what we've created so far and continue to build even better than that. In that regard, as far as we are concerned, we think that in the past 8 years we have really improved interethnic relations in Croatia, that we have resolved a whole series of elements of the war heritage that the country has been holding back in its overall social progress and in its development, but there is room for more. Not only is there room, but there is an imperative for more, for more in the sense that there are no signs of intolerance and hatred for others and different, that there are no fears among people about whether or not they will be able to plead as members of this religious national or any other community. It is certainly something that it represents for the next government, and for this government an inevitable and important task, an inevitable and important challenge. Especially given what Prime Minister Milanovic said in his inspired opening address. On the other hand, it is true that in our country there is such a regional inequality, to live in Korenica, in Lapac, in Grazac, to mention only the visual municipalities, since they were mentioned in Slavonic and Dalmatian, is about to live in a place that you received either by punishment or because you have no place else, or because you can't go anywhere else. In these environments, colleagues and colleagues, regardless of whether we are talking about settlers, Croatian immigrants, Croatian returnees or Serb returnees, employment is less than the average unemployment in the rest of Croatia, so below 14%. We must be able to change this through a more just, more even policy of regional development, a policy that will, on the one hand, allow these people to have dignity and a life of appearance, but also to use those spaces because they are completely unused. In one conversation with the former, last prime minister of the Yugoslav state and with the president of the Croatian government, whom unfortunately we did not escort in a special way, Mr. Anto Markovic in the area of Like, there were more than 250,000 sheep, today if you find 25,000 will be fine. We must change that, and we who speak on the basis of knowledge and experience, working in such environments, are deeply convinced that we will find partners in this government to change that. The same applies to social rights, as is true for all other people living in Croatian cities such as Zagreb, such as Rijeka, such as Split, such as Osijek, such as Sisak, such as Karlovac, and so I could list them further. Croatia has become a society of inequality over the past 20 years. A society of inequality is much more serious and much more difficult to inequality than it is with the average European societies that we join. The degree of inequality that can be recognised in us, the degree of inequality that can be seen in us can only be measured by periods in certain historical periods of individual large European nations such as France followed by major changes and major shifts. I will give you only one example that is safe for you, colleagues and colleagues, and for you, Mr. Prime Minister and future members of the government has not missed, which is that in our country four-fifths of the total savings we have 160 billion kuna in bank accounts is held by 2% of Croatian citizens. Four-fifths of 160 billion belong to only a small percentage of 2% of those who are Croatian citizens. One fifth belongs to everyone else, and what is the number of those who have nothing on the savings account? What's the number of people who don't even have lip in a savings account? We're probably scared to think. I think that should be regained in Croatia, I think that this government should take care that it cannot take away from those who do not, that it cannot take away those who can no longer give more than they have given. And in this sense, this government must make sure that the burden of leaving the crisis is divided so that there is not only solidarity but a balance that will make sure that those who are richer, those who have more must bear the burden more. If that is the case, Mr. Prime Minister, then faith in Croatian society in this Parliament will be restored, faith in politics will be restored. And that's one of the things I think we need to do, colleagues and colleagues. We have been chosen, but we need to have awareness that we have been chosen in a time when politics has the lowest rating. We're afraid to lower our credit rating, but we need to worry about the fact that the ratings we're dealing with, the ones we're sitting here, that we're discussing here, this representative body and the government is the lowest since we exist as an independent country. How much did we contribute to that on our own? How much more of it is an integral part of the plan of those who have more power than we have here and perhaps tomorrow the government will have. We also need to think about it. We also need to be able to influence that. Because it's not just money, it's not just financial capital, it's not just media capital and media influence that can undermine the interest of the people, the will of the people and the national representation. In that sense, it seems to me that what we also experienced yesterday is what we experienced at a consultation meeting, which is that we do not allow the differences that exist between us, the conflicts that can be opened between us, the polemics that can be opened between us, the weaknesses that each of us certainly has and that we all as representatives of individual factions do not allow to devalue parliamentaryism in Croatia and open a dialogue that has not been in recent years. And to open this dialogue in the role of what is today a challenge for Croatia. And the challenge for Croatia, as I understand from Mr Milanovic's speech, is not only to create reforms but to create new foundations for Croatia in a wider environment, for Croatia in new value frameworks and for Croatia that will be able to overcome the weaknesses it is living in today. The colleagues and colleagues of the SDSS Representatives Club as well as the National Minority Representatives Club will support this government. It will be supported on the basis of harmonised elements of the joint programme, supported by harmonised elements of the common values we believe and share. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS will also work in this Parliament to contribute, contribute absolutely to the affirmation of both our national parliamentaryism and to contribute to the affirmation of our state of Croatia within the frameworks of the region, within Europe and within the world. In the past 20 years, we have been running from the region more than we have turned the region into something that will be of interest to Croatia itself and common interest. Such a policy that could be interpreted as an emergency in order to get to the EU we should absolutely replace it with a policy in which we will turn our membership in the Union and our interests in the region, our legitimate interests which are not only economic but are also national, which are not only national but are also historical, into an active part and an active component of Croatian politics and Croatian action. Mr. President, thank you for the opportunity to speak to me. I would like to congratulate you, Mr. Prime Minister, and wish you success in what awaits us and in jobs that will not really be easy and in jobs that will be more and more than easy or anything but easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u844	Thank you, Mr. Pupovac. Next in line is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u845	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed prime minister, candidates and candidates for the new Croatian government. Mr. President, just one small note, this morning the proposal for a program wasn't split at 8:00, but at 8:35, the division of documents on the constituency benches began. So in my debate, I will not look back on me for a very good performance speech by Mr Milanovic. I'll just use one of his sentences for my debate later. So I'm going to talk about the document, the government program that we've been given, because I think it sets four years in office, but the first man in that government is still going to make major moves. So I see this program as a good catalogue, a description of the goals. A lot of the likes of the Croatian Labourists have, but of course there are those goals in this programme that are opposite to ours or different. Mr. Milanovic said there would be no painful cuts. There will be, but unlike before, those who will suffer these cuts this time will get anesthesia, they will suffer, not immediately, but a little later, some medicines will be on the prescription, and some will not. I conclude from the fact that I have not found in this programme any specifics that would talk about the financial sector in Croatia that has become rich in crisis and it seems to me that by keeping quiet about that part of the financial sector will not have painful cuts, even more will receive a bonus. That's where we expected one change of policy. I am sorry that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament do not allow candidates for members of the Government to answer questions as the President of the Parliament has announced amendments to the Rules of Procedure may be of interest to intervene in this part of the Rules of Procedure. So, I welcome and it is very good that the government finally speaks, yet this programme records the need for new industrialisation of Croatia, exports and the rise of domestic demand because no society, no economy anywhere in Europe has recovered unless domestic demand has been increased. Of course we welcome such a prominent society without corruption, but this Programme speaks more about public authorities, less about society as a whole. For the first time, I see a government programme where it's not just about reducing the unemployment rate, it's about increasing the employment rate. It is if I am not wrong at this point about 41.3%, it would be more specific that we set a goal for this term of office whether we are going towards 45 or more, because indeed countries that want to recover economically without a employment rate of about 50%, which should be very difficult to achieve in the medium term. We welcome both the intention and the goal of resolving some of the internal debts through multilateral compensations that we already had in 2001 or 2002 as one of the methods of resolving internal debts and I hope that these moves will be one of the first to be made possible. And bankruptcy by a reduced procedure, and preventing the establishment of new companies as long as the owners do not resolve the status of the dubios of the existing ones is a large function of protecting employees' rights, which according to current models worked in such companies for a year and two remained unaccompanied, and also the bankruptcy after that could not charge a minimum of their claims. We express a large reserve according to the announcement of a reduction in salary contributions, especially since it is later seen as a matter of pension and health contributions because this programme does not mention how to compensate for the reduction of money in the pension and health system while at the same time promising that health insurance and pension rights will not be better touched. One of the active measures is to encourage employment, release pension and health benefits for new employers we have such experience and the amount of abuse that has been made such a relief, greater damage has been gained than benefits and I am not sure that we should not consider parafiscal burdens instead, abolish mandatory contributions to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of crafts, monumental rents, obligations to the tourist community, and it seems to me that employers themselves would have welcomed this sooner. It also announces the adoption of sectoral development strategies in industrial policy, which we consider extremely good. However, in the order of the proposed measures, it seems to me that in writing this programme and it has been reportedly written for a long time, it has forgotten the fact that both foreign and domestic investors as reasons for the obstacles to larger and faster investment have been listed in order. Slow state bureaucracy, heavy availability of capital and high capital prices, frequent change in the tax system, corruption and only fifth place, they themselves raised the issue of labour markets. I would like those in the government to decide on the order of moves and will constantly make a reminder of what investors themselves have singled out as a problem. In the energy area we welcome the plans and ideas for Croatia to finally approach the construction of new facilities of storage and gas, renewable energy sources where Croatia's electricity industry has done almost nothing so far, with these numbered thermal and hydro power plants about a period of 20 years for realization, we read this as a long-term goal,... And as for the Society and part of the South Stream, it seems to me that we are too late the day when former Prime Minister Sanader, in negotiations with Putina, was empowered by some European bureaucrat who went to Moscow and Croatia did not have a negotiator there. The area of work and entrepreneurship we welcome the intention of introducing specialised working courts and strengthening labour inspection, a quick effective judicial process. Now, how soon will the laws on this subject come? However, as regards the right to collective bargaining in these particulars, it is evident that those who wrote this part do not really understand one thing, that trade unions and workers have the right to collective bargaining. However, if the state government, first of all, does not encourage two partners to collective bargaining because you cannot make your own collective agreement, the unions remain only conflict and only by strike and industrial action can stand up to it, and the government that wants to avoid that result from conflicting methods... The action will also encourage employers' associations to negotiate collectively. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This part does not necessarily have to be entered in the programme but must be subject to the new Labour Act. As for the flexibility of the labour market and the goal of greater labour market mobility, we welcome the fact that in Croatia territorial labour migration is almost impossible because it is related to the possibility of resolving and living issues, pre-school education and school system. Territorial migration will not be possible if someone from Osijek wants to get a job in Rijeka and cannot enroll a child in kindergarten, no apartment or child in school. So it's a project that we finally need to understand and see. The next point in this area of the Employment Rental Agency, at this point in Croatia, is the largest employer who has no collective contract in which workers' rights are most frequently violated and in which state-owned companies and state-owned enterprises and even public authorities use these employment agencies to cover up the number of employees, and in fact the least protected category of employment is through these agencies. With the pension system, I will set aside for a short period of time such a dear topic for me and finally, and the government says that it will abolish the privileged pensions for the representatives and members of the Government and the Constitutional Court judge, it should be quite necessary that no one in this Chamber should be allowed to do so after such a sentence. 2005. For years on this subject, there was a general laugh in Parliament when I first... But I don't understand the provision that pensions will harmonize with inflation and the cost of living. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This formula or formulation is unknown to me by now, but it will certainly be the greatest expert in the Assembly of fellow Hrelja interpreting what it means. And at the end of what is not, and I expected. I'm going to start with three topics of life that are non-political. In this country lives on tens of thousands of citizens who have one huge problem and no one has wanted to solve it so far, and that is the shortened Ljubljanska Banka. If the government can take over or say no, the government cannot resolve the problem of the debt of the Ljubljanska Banka to the citizens of Croatia. Secondly, it obviously gave up the announcement of the negotiations with MOL on the change of the share agreement. It is extremely important for concessions but also for Sisak, or the Sisak Refinery, because if the contract does not change the Refinery in Sisak, it will not be renewed but closed. And the third theme of life is the Željezara Sisak as an experience when we let go of a strategist partner who didn't know what he was doing. A political theme that is not said in the government's programme. Direct democracy, especially when citizens are looking for it. In his last SDP meeting, he had a proposal and a request to cut the number of signatures from 10 to 5, here neither in the words of the ruling coalition towards direct democracy. Croatia's insurance, JANAF, Croatia's electricity industry, Croatia's railways and Croatia's postal bank, whispering to prepare for privatisation. So, does what I've listed remain state-owned or is it divided and split and segmentally privatized? A political responsibility that did not exist, which meant that the fugitives in front of the Croatian judiciary received salaries from the state budget, state officials in the Investigation Prison and detention received full salaries from the state budget, that those who were proven to have conflict of interest remain in office. And I am ending, not a word in the electoral system will we seriously consider in this term a change in the electoral system for the Parliament? Are we seriously changing election units? And I ask, will this new government get its final strength after so many boycotts in two terms of Parliament to take down the voter list, that we have no more voters than the living people in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u846	Thank you, too. Mr. Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u847	Dear Mr. President, honored gentlemen of the future members of the government. Mr. Milanovic means future prime minister, he offered a hand of reconciliation, but a hand-to-hand co-operation of the former HSZ government. Knowing your mentality, however, I have the impression that you would be telling the institutions the whole hand of Mr Milanovic, and for two days you have been blocking the work of this Parliament. You are not obstructing the new government but obstructing the will of the citizens. You're obstructing the attempt to extract the country from the crisis. Don't make life worse for the citizens who put you in the right place. The parliament should function for the benefit of citizens, not any political option. It is a great pleasure for me to be able to wish Mr Milanovic a complete success. What does this new government inherit? Mrs. Jadranka Kosor told us a few days ago that no skeleton would be found in the government's closets. The Governor of the Croatian National Bank, Mr. Rohatinski, who deeply appreciates that he created from the CNB, let me be the cynical most privileged institution in the country that guarantees employees loans, massages etc., and I don't think it's far from the truth when he says or reduces expenditures by 9 billion kuna or Croatia threatens new Greece. It's a done quote. I personally do not believe that Croatia will be the new Greece or that it is possible to cut expenditures by 9 billion kuna, but the truth is probably in 2012 will hardly be the growth of gross social product. Those who talk about new foreign investments in 2012 are envied by illusions, the world is in crisis. Those who talk about the industrial Renaissance in 2012 I think it is also impossible. In Croatia, the industry was to be saved in the '90s. In Istria alone, industry is the first economic branch, only Istria today has more jobs in Croatia than in the '90s, our export for 9 months 2011 is a billion 270 million US dollars, 51% is higher than 2010. Or, Istria exports 700 million dollars for 9 months more than the Primorje-Gorski County or a billion 246 million dollars more than Dubrovnik County or $586 million more than Varazdin County or 750 million more than Split County which is twice as big, etc., etc. But today it is, which will be tomorrow and with Istrian shipbuilding some other occasion. Don't let God pull Hypo or Raiffeisen Bank, we'd fall to our knees. Clearly, it will not happen but will likely be sold this year for more money than the Croatian budget has come from the sale of the entire banking sector there in the late 1990s. Those who hope in 2012 for a better season than in 2011, and it will be a good season, are engrossed in good wishes, but once word before us, gentlemen is one of the most difficult years, there since '95. over here. Where the problem arises, where those skeletons lie. We are in favour of the elections or you are in favour of the elections in 2007 which HDZ received literally dared to say burdened, not to say destroy Croatia. Clearly, Croatian citizens deserve higher salaries, higher pensions and higher social transfers, but the 2000 budget was 50.7 billion kuna without pensions, 2003. 80 billion, 2006. 96, 2007. 108, 2008. 115, today is the 122 billion kuna, and Rohatinski is asking us to return to the 2007 budget in 2008. In my opinion, it's impossible without cutting into wages, pensions, social services, that's what I should have said before. However, where are these skeletons in our closets that will be opened the next day by a gentleman who will be in the government. In two years, Croatia lost 150 thousand jobs, in 2012, it is due to return 17.2 billion euros, foreign exchanges should be created, not only returned by the state but also by banks and businesses. Who's just going to create these foreign exchanges? The external debt in 2003 was 19.9 billion euros, today it is 46.3 billion euros. Individence 2003. 11.1 billion, today 40 billion kuna. State guarantees 2003. 20.6 billion kuna, today 60 billion kuna. What if tomorrow he comes to the charge of 10 billion kuna from a bankrupt shipbuilding that was rescheduled in 15 years with 40 billion kuna, and in those 15 years we delivered only 40 billion kuna ships, which will say that we donated each ship to the orderers. Clearly, they paid for everything neatly. Public debt in 2003 was 80 billion kuna, today it's 150. True, the 2003 gross social product was 30 billion euros, today 46. Now that these budget transfers have grown so much from 2007 to 2011, pensions not when we watch average pensions but the number of users does. The average salary in 2007 was 5131 kuna, today 5514, so the 2007 budget was typically electoral and there was a imbalance that would be difficult to correct without social impact and political shocks. Where to take, let us now let these political debates, Europe, yes or no, make it clear to me, that the withdrawal of Serbia's genocide suit, in my opinion absolutely that because the dispute has not been won either by Bosnia and Herzegovina, neither will Croatia. It is clear that Croatia will not forget the destruction of one Vukovar or Skabrnj, missing or killed as we should not forget the accident, and we created it or which we did Bosnia and Herzegovina. As I would also like those small minorities spoken of by Furio to have a double right to vote or to choose representatives directly as mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, presidents, etc., and I would also like to see the relationship of NOB recruits, they have 37700 changes. This one or this responsibility or whatever the numbers, it's gentlemen's responsibility on all of us. Today or tomorrow will be the responsibility of the coalition, but I also dare say that it will be much more difficult for the SDP-led President Josipovic, and he himself has given several ministers in the government, and Pantovic's responsibility will in some way exceed those constitutional powers of the president. But the point is to stabilise the country economically, economically, socially, politically. Citizens have given us great trust, citizens don't even expect anything spectacular in six months or a year, citizens have given a strong loan to the new government. Today, they would even bite their tongues off if they said something wrong, but they are ready for fair restrictions. They say DA recovery to Croatia, but we all have to bear the same burden, not that those who have a lot more tomorrow have more, and those who have little simply to lose everything. I'm sorry, too, for example. in this report, it does not refer to the revision of the conversion. But what's the point? The gross social product has doubled from 23.3 billion euros to 46.3 billion euros since 2000, but budget expenditure has increased, not 100% as a gross social product, but by 244%, e.g. pay in the public sector from 2002 to 2011 for 10 billion kuna, not to talk about these figures now. What I expect is that this country is radically decentralised, that there is a huge economy, not that it is 30% in our country, in Italy it is enormous and it is 17%, it is 20%, but if we only hit those 10 points in the budget, the brother would agree with some 4.5 billion kuna. If that were to happen, one item might not have to be cut even though all items should be reassessed. Help the small sector. Who's filling the budget? I claim that the budget in this country is the most filled by those who have the least because it is simply the most. We're '93. had 3385 large economic operators. 2010. There's 375 left. '93. We had 35043 small and medium-sized entities, and today 96373 of them are again 65,000 insolvent. Everybody gives the big ones. Nobody gives the kids kids. We gave the tycoons factories. Not me, but those workers got apartments. Okay. Doctors of the office, farmers go country in order. Church this, that. Foreigners, T-HT, INA, craftsmen nothing. And I think we need to review some of the monopoly and their privatisation. The most I care about is when I speak from this stage to extend the Buik concession on the ipsilon in 2012 so that at this time, it could start digging into another tube of Učka tunnel plus building a road from Pazin towards Ucka, which will not cost a single June. Certainly there is a river Yellow Lock and that finally Rijeka or Rijeka Luka becomes a zero point of all Croatian traffic routes. And clearly, I also want people in this country to be allowed to work, to have careful government gentlemen with new taxes that could hit the poor whether it's property or now this 25% VAT announcement. I don't know who's on board that that tax could be neutral. For who? For the big guy who's got the big twist, the investments. But for that small merchant or citizen, it's not a neutral tax. Increase of the non-taxable part of O.K. But whether it will turn to pay is difficult. Who's going to take the highest price of it? Local self-government. Okay. That's something someone's gonna say imaginary. But as a rule, it'll always be poor. Everything pays for the poor. What if it causes a fall in income? What if it leads to each other's collapse of these small companies, and today I said 65,000 are insolvent, etc. etc. I will once again say I am giving full, full support to Mr Milanovic, the new ministers. Some things are clear that we can see differently. But I sincerely want to believe that this government has the courage to change Croatia. I want to believe that well, I want to believe, it's not going to happen. But I want to believe they'll be very supportive of the opposition. This government gentlemen doesn't have any alternatives. It's either gonna work or the ground's gonna hit the bottom. And I repeat that in 2012 will be far more difficult than in 2011, and therefore the government does not have too much time at this point. The most beautiful line I heard today from Mr Milanovic's speech is that we are not so bad and we should return that one self-respect. However, I will say the opportunities that have never been more difficult in this country. So much we let people work, let people have, let them create. Let's encourage them to do that. Maybe we can get out of that living mud that otherwise scares us and swallows us. Honestly, for the third time, I wish the government every happiness. Their success will be the success of the country. Their failure would be my failure. So much, Mr. Milanovic, Mr. Minister, may you be fortunate and you can count on our support from the IDS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u848	Thank you very much for representing Caine. I have been reported to check the correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Frano Matušić, Mr. Josip Salapić, Mr. Representative Željko Reiner and Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here's a correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u849	Thank you, Mr. President. It is incorrect, however, that fellow Caine is saying that HDZ is blocking the work of the Croatian Parliament. First, we're not able to block. And another thing we use our business opportunities at our disposal to achieve our rights, and it is our right to read both about this programme and the laws yesterday. But that right was taken from us in a way that we got the material at the last minute on the bench and we couldn't see it at all. And of course we were looking for breaks. And seeking a break in no way is a blockade of the work of the Croatian Parliament, nor is it in question. The second thing, my colleague, it seems that you haven't enjoyed the role you're in today, which is that you're in power. You're in power. You need to answer those questions you've been asking here at the pay phone. Third. It's not a bad situation. Mr Milanovic, the prime minister of the new government, said exactly. He just said it wasn't a bad situation. The land is left to the ground the moment two quarters of economic growth of 0.8, 0.7%, which means we're out of the economic crisis. [[President: You've run out of minutes.]] And what you'll show will we see.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u850	Thank you. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u851	Thank you, Mr. President. There's more inaccuracies. First of all, it's incorrect that this is a stage. This is a pay phone. He's not playing here. I hope you're not acting, but this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia you want to present. If Mr. Cain's acting, we don't act here. We're a constructive opposition. And for what he said that we would tear off Mr Milanovic's hand for the cooperation I would remind the Croatian Parliament that our Government and President Kosor had just given you Mr Milanovic a hand in the key national interests. What we have received is an unfettered hand, but an empty assembly when it comes to the European Union, the rights of Croatian defenders, the Law on Vulnerabilities, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest as a key law for the conclusion of Chapter 23. We received an empty assembly on our hand, and in some situations so much hatred that we could lose our heads that you gave us a hand of cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u852	Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u853	Mr. President, I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that there is just one ominous allegation that we have caused the accident of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know who the esteemed representative meant by that. I hope he didn't mean the proposed government. I certainly did not cause the accident of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm convinced that none of the people sitting here are the same, and if he thinks he is then he probably has to clear up something with his conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u854	Thank you. He can't answer it, because he has no right to speak in our Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u855	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain made a few incorrect allegations, and I noticed the one where he said that we were obstructing the new government and that we wanted to take the whole hand of the gentleman's future Prime Minister. It's incorrect for both of us, the government hasn't yet been confirmed. Second, let the gentleman's hand be on his shoulder. We just want to warn my colleague Cain of certain things and to refer to the program, etc., but of course, with respect to the rights of the pensioners to available and quality health care, to care for the village and farmers, and of course we are not for the adoption of such laws as were passed yesterday, so you mentioned the word responsibility, so you yourself are interpreting whether it is responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u856	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDSSB representative club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u857	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, It is a holiday and Christmas time, in the Croatian people this time is called a time of hope, often the most beautiful time of the year. Our desire is that both our work and all of us contribute to such epithets of this holiday season. Yesterday, the 7th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament was established, today we elect a new Government of the Republic of Croatia, a government that should be and is an expression of the democratically expressed will of most Croatian citizens, the government of which all Croatian citizens, I stress but just everyone and those who in the previous elections on December 4th gave their voice to those who will draw up a future Croatian government, but also those who gave their voice to those who will not participate in its assembly, so to us the Croatian opposition, so the government of which all Croatian citizens have the right to expect and demand that Croatia be stopped from making a further donation and finally finding the way out of the comprehensive crisis that our country covered as the limbs of the most dangerous octopus. Mr. Zoran Milanovic presented to us before this debate the proposal of members of the new Croatian government and the programme. Most of the proposed members of the government know more or less, some of us will have yet to meet, we at the HDSSB club are starting to believe that these are people worthy of these honorable duties. We believe and hope that we will have such conviction both during and at the end of their term of office. At this solemn and responsible moment for the entire Republic of Croatia should not remain backward, in the past, but should be seen with hope forward, in the future. But some things from the past must not be crossed over and passed over, not because of themselves, but because mistakes and sins from the past would not be repeated in the future. And not only to the new Croatian government, but to all Croatian citizens who will be represented by the new Government of the Republic of Croatia and whose power will be executive. Never again has what we experienced from our Croatian government in the last two four-year term. ... Robbery of its own people, organised crime and corruption, an octopus that has spread its limbs to almost all the pores of numerous state institutions, whose head has been living in the highest peaks of the Croatian state government is a feature that will unfortunately long be monitored by HDZ rule over Croatia for the last 8 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] May what has happened to Croatian citizens always be on the minds of every future and this today's Government of the Republic of Croatia, which I believe will be voted on. Let it never happen again in the slightest sense. On their view of such a rule of the Republic of Croatia, as it has done in the past 8 years, the HDZ has shown its court in the best way possible by Croatian citizens in the December 4th elections. With this in mind, we expect from the new Government of the Republic of Croatia and ask you not only to be second, be a different authority, and always keep in mind the sentence from the speech of Stjepan Radic in Osijek on June 10, 1928: "Brothers with the Government as with the Government and with the gang as with the gang." As for today's draft composition of the new Croatian government, I will repeat what we have already said can be asked and pollemised whether the best solution is to form the ministries one way or another, whether it is good instead of the previous 16 have 20 ministries, whether this is the very structure and composition of the government that will be the best and most efficient and rational solution for the Republic of Croatia and for all its citizens, but we at the HDSB Representatives' Club think it is not and does not have to be an indication whether the future Croatian government will be successful or unsuccessful, and whether it will justify the expectations of Croatian citizens. And I repeat, in the end, if the prime minister for the new government has the mandate to put it together, and he has, then he has the right to propose its appearance and its programme and composition as he thinks it will be best. It is his right, but it carries a understandable and enormous and exclusive responsibility if it turns out to be a bad solution. I believe he is also aware of this responsibility. I said be different, not just the new second power. I mean first of all that Croatian citizens all, and those who have given their trust to you, but also those who have given us their trust they expect you to be a fair, responsible, socially sensitive, nationally highly aware Croatian authority. That's what everyone will evaluate you for, and we'll follow it very closely. We from the HDSSB expect the new Croatian government to actually work in life, not just on paper and words, to solve the most painful problems of Croatian citizens. More than 300 thousand unemployed, tens of thousands who work but do not receive salaries for their work, pensioners who with their poor pensions still have to support their children without a job and help schooling and their grandchildren, an army of poor Croatian citizens who dig in containers to survive, our young people who, after finishing schooling, go to the bureaus or in the best case of the season, are unfortunately Croatian reality, and the problems that await the new government at the beginning of her work. It's hard to listen and list all these problems, and it's even harder to solve them, but they need to be dealt with and solved unconditionally. This is expected of the new government and of all its citizens, all Croatian citizens. And that is why you have been given a mandate, not for ministerial chairs, official cars, phones, luxuriously decorated offices, secretaries, bodyguards and all other benefits that go with these duties, the mandate of Croatian citizens did not give you for this, but rather for solving their life problems, and I hope and want to believe that you are aware, as I want you and all of us will always bear in mind that both in the Croatian Parliament and in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in any of the duties chosen by our fellow citizens, that each of us is not only representing our own parties, but above all all all Croatian citizens. We represent those who have chosen us on those duties, and among whom we will need to return sooner or later and look them in the eye. And by their view or by whether or not we will recover, we will know whether we have always had this fact in mind. Not a single duty should disembark us from our fellow citizens, from the people who expect us to represent them and their own interests, not our own. As far as the HDSSB club is concerned, I especially want to set aside three more things. From the new Government of the Republic of Croatia with full right not only do we expect but we also require that from the first day we change our attitude towards the homeland from which we come. And I was glad to hear what you said about Slavonia and Baranja being the poorest part of having that relationship. I hope you don't let us down. Because Slavonia and Baranja are once the richest, and today thanks to the most maternal relationship and not the care of the central state government, and not just the war, today is the poorest, most neglected and lagging-out Croatian region and did not deserve to be who it is today. The balanced development of all parts of our country is a prerequisite for every Croatian citizen living in every Croatian region with the life he deserves, the life he dreamed of and the life we all had 20 years ago were creating a Croatian state and fighting for. Slavonia and Baranja account for 20% of the population and 20% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, thus earning at least 20% of all the funding from the state budget, especially those for capital investments, not crumbs from 4 to 8% of the last eight years it has received from previous authorities. And remember, I especially underline, that Slavons and Baranians and Western Srijems are not lazy, unworkable and less valuable people who are already in spite of themselves, we are people who have always lived from their hard work, peaceful, benevolent and proud people who carry in themselves and this famous Slavonic spite not as something bad but something better not to cause because it is an additional inexhaustible source of power to face every problem and to fight at all costs for the achievement of what we have imagined. And Slavonic spite is part of ours, but also of Croatian wealth, and in its strength they had the opportunity to convince many through our troubled history and so on 20 years ago, the great-serb conquerors who both in Slavonia and Baranja broke their teeth. Our second expectation and requirement, and the need to regionalise the fiscal decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia is closely linked to the previous one. The situation that only 8% of all public finances remains units of local and regional self-government, with 92% going to the central state register where the dropper and usually on the political key, rather than the real needs, only a small part returning where it came from is unsustainable and is one of the main causes of such unbalanced and unequal development of Croatian regions. The change in such ratio from 92 to 8 to 70-30 or some other ratio is, in our opinion, a truly balanced and uniform development of all Croatian parts. And our third expectation and demand does not matter, but rather refers to the attitude of the new Croatian government towards the Homeland War and Croatian defenders. Locate, identify, arrest and transfer, political persecution and political assembly, trial and judgment of Croatian defenders, Croatian generals and their closure in Croatian, Hague, Bosnian-Herzegovic, Serbian and various white-world prisons is a disgrace and a tragedy of the Croatian state. The message that we send to our children through such relations with the symbols of the Homeland War and true Croatian heroes is even more tragic. It is as if we tell them if you have to defend your country again, don't do it because those against whom you will defend Croatia, but also your Croats, who will not participate in that defense of the Homeland with you. And there has always been knowledge and belief in Croatian tradition that three things are worth dying for: for God, for family and for Homeland. That is why we expect the new Croatian government and demand that these values are always of special concern. For us, for our children and for Croatia. I said it's holiday and Christmas time. In the Croatian people, this time is called a time of hope, often the most beautiful time of the year. Our Croatia lives in difficult times, Croatian citizens fear the uncertain future and their own, but even more the future of their children. And if anything needs Croatia, the Croatian people and all Croatian citizens, then this is exactly the hope and belief that both this difficult and uncertain time will pass and that our Homeland will finally become the same as we and countless generations of Croats have given their lives and in the Homeland War those who were, yes and will forever be her pride – Croatian defenders. Therefore, the HDSB club will not be against this proposal by the prime minister for the formation of the new government, but as an opposition party, we will retain the right not to give a bilateral trust and remain abstention at the same time expressing hope that the new Government of the Republic of Croatia will fulfill pre-election promises and justify the acquired trust of Croatian citizens. We hope that you want the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian citizens with your work and you want to bring the results they expect. Not the changes on paper and words but the better life, the better present and a more certain future. In the end, all of us representatives of the HDSSB on behalf of all our members and supporters of all our dear Slavs, Baranjas and Western Sremites, all of our dear Croatian citizens, all our dear Croatian defenders, and especially all of our Croatian heroes and defenders of the Homeland War, who lie innocent in Croatian, Bosnian-Herzegovic, The Hague, Serbian and other white-world dungeons, all of your victims of the Homeland War, all of you fellows and colleagues, we give you sincere wishes for a happy and blessed Christmas filled with hope, faith and piety and happy, healthy and successful New Year 2012. I want the new Croatian government not to let us down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u858	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic and Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go, Mr. Salapian.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u859	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Buric said in his presentation a series of inaccuracies. It is truly amazing that some members of the HDZ, the Croatian Democratic Community as a party, are called the litter of corruption and crime. Our government and Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor has shown what she thinks of corruption and crime, our government has launched a fight against corruption and crime, and it is precisely one of the key reasons for the end of the EU negotiations that has been launched by our government. It is unusual that a former HDZ member who has been a member of our party for 15 years, and that Slavonia and Baranja, during the reign of officials who are here today in the HDZ, is completely destroyed, speaks of the HDZ in such an inappropriate way. And to remind you briefly, for the maternal relationship with Slavonia and Baranja, in the past 4 years of our government's mandate in Slavonia and Baranja, 13.5 billion kuna has been invested in various projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u860	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. First of all, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u861	Dear Mr. President, Article 214 has been injured. I understand that you may not have studied this Rules of Procedure well yet, but I would ask you to give or give a warning to Representative Salapic because here in this correction the incorrect allegations degrades other MPs. Mr. Buric spoke about the top of the HDZ, he had enough, Mr. Salapic, to visit Remetinac or visit certain villas, to remind the captain with a little vitre that he sailed with a little vitre and to see what I was saying. And about the money and the funds that came to Slavonia, we could talk for a long and long time, because if those funds had come to Slavonia, Slavonia would not have been the most neglected region of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u862	Now, I would like to ask Mr. Ivan Drmic for his representative, the same injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u863	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. Mr. Salapic violated Article 209 but did not correct the correct quote. He mistranslated the words of Dr. Buric, he said he was Dr. Buric said HDZ members are certainly not criminals, HDZ is a big party and there are many good, honest and honest people. Dr. Crescent. Buric said the criminals were also there in the HDZ leadership. We all know how much was robbed by HDZ and government leadership in the last term, and I can tell you that in Slavonia we would be pleased if that money had come there, perhaps the former government would have won elections but would certainly have support in Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u864	Tell me why you're protesting. Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u865	Thank you, Mr. President, Article 209 was injured, so my colleague Salapic, instead of correcting the settlement with me, did not say at all that he thought was to be corrected. I am stressing that I was talking about the top of the party, and I can also quote you, an unprecedented robbery of my own people, organised crime and corruption, an octopus that has spread its limbs through almost all state institutions and whose head lived in the highest peaks of state government. I wasn't talking about HDZ members. When you talk about Slavonia and Baranja and that...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u866	Please, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u867	It would be really good if these 13 billion that were on paper you sent to Slavonia and Baranja there and arrived because they were probably lost as well as those 4 million from the black funds to the HDZ center, so the only part came.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u868	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u869	Mr. President, this is a truly injured Rules of Procedure now in Article 209 which is here a violation of the Rules of Procedure which I incorrectly said in my correction of the incorrect assumption. I'm asking you if you're going to cancel something, then you can cancel this because this doesn't make sense, that the three of them appear and pollomise on my exposure to correcting the incorrect allegations, which is the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u870	Thank you. So, you're just confirming what we've already announced these days, which is that we need to seriously review some of the institutions in the Rules of Procedure, especially the correction of the incorrect allegations, but also the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so that this debate is also talking about it, and I would just pray that we don't take offense to each other and what Mr. Prime Minister said that we normally use in our work. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Vladimir Seks, please welcome your representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u871	Dear Mr. President, I believe that you have personally, on several occasions, injured the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in such a way as to allow uninterrupted insult and slander to HDZ representatives. I think you were obliged as soon as it started with slanders and insults immediately end that rep who insults and slanders. So please, I know, and you're saying that you need to make a change and revision of the Rules of Procedure sure to do it, but while the Rules of Procedure is who I think it is, I don't think any MP should be allowed, that it should be interrupted from the moment he starts to insult in the most difficult way and the entire party, and its leadership and individual representatives. Please prevent such injuries and insults, because it will create and cause evil blood again in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u872	Thank you for your warning, but you weren't Mr. Agent Shakespeare in the hall when I was given a significant remark on how to conduct the session, which didn't stand, but I said that these institutes were still in effect, I didn't get mad at myself. But thank you for your advice that we will certainly all use together when we change our Rules of Procedure. Can we go further now in the debate? Thank you. So, next up is Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u873	Thank you very much Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen candidates for future vice-presidents and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community our thinking and thinking about this programme for which I am the prime minister in my opening section said that this is a summary of wishes and that probably some other programmes would be similar, but as much as this programme was made in some time, how many things happened yesterday in this House best says Article 3 on page 5, which says: "We will implement the legal alignment of payment deadlines with the EU legislation by emergency implementation of a solution from the new Executive Law. Therefore, this emergency application is meant to delay the application of the Law by six months. So, and you could now go list a number of things that in this program simply don't stand with what Mr. Milanovic said, but we want to be a serious opposition, we want to point out the remarks, but we also want to say and we will never let him tell us and it says here that nothing has been done, nothing has been done. Well, colleagues and colleagues, do you really think we'd end our negotiations if we were to be exact quotes from this program that's on your desks. Is that really true? And that clearly indicates that this programme unfortunately starts with the wrong assumptions about the state of affairs in the country. And that's how it is to speak in such a difficult financial, economic, social situation, and not in one word touch the key law at this point, which you didn't want to vote for, the Fiscal Responsibility Act, clearly imposes a number of questions. Why? So for the simple reason if you want to bring the budget, according to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, then you had to offer a series of answers here today or you should say we're not able to implement fiscal consolidation and we're going to put the Fiscal Responsibility Act out of force. Because that's two things, the third thing is you just don't have a chance. Why? Because one of the basic provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act says that the expenditure side of the state budget cannot grow more than 1% less than the growth of gross domestic product. And dear colleagues and colleagues, if you want to solve as many wishes as all ministers have written in their programs, then given the structure of the revenue side of the state budget, it consists practically of 4 taxes. It's a value added tax, it's excise duties, it's so-called. Taxes, profit tax, therefore a tax that taxes capital which unfortunately has dropped almost 60% in the last three years due to the economic crisis. And you have these so-called so-called. Solidarity contributions, one is for retirement and the other is for health and the other is very low income. So if you don't end the fiscal responsibility law if you want to fulfill all these intense desires you wrote here, you're going to have to raise the tax. And that's why I'm asking you today on behalf of the HDZ Club and I can say on behalf of the citizens who voted for you, will you increase the VAT? Will you go to 25% instead of those announced 17% 10 years ago? Will you bring in new taxes? It's something you need to see in this government's program. Why? Because it's being brought under specific circumstances. No government in terms of economic and financial situation has brought forward its programme and proposal for a programme in such a difficult situation as it is now. And therefore, there is simply no room to propose certain measures because you have to bring a budget in the next month, a month and a half, because the Interim Finance Act will simply put you into operation. But if you didn't want to say in your pre-election time what you were going to do with taxes, then you should have done it today or you should have said no, we're not going to stick to the Fiscal Responsibility Act because we're not able to implement it. So that's a fact. If we're not going to talk about the income side, let's talk about the spending side. The illusion is and it is incorrect that the Croatian budget can be reduced by 10 billion without cutting the rights. That's just impossible. Why? And because your salaries and your material rights are employees of the state administration 35 billion, because your pensions are 36 billion, because your health care is 22 billion, because your welfare is almost 6 billion, because your support is 6 billion, because your interest is 8.5 billion. And then you leave those material costs for the functioning of the state Croatian component in pre-accession funds of some 8 billion. And now tell me, how are you going to reduce the expenditure side of the state budget if you don't cut some rights? And now I'm going back to what was nice politically sounding in your speech, Mr. Milanovic, and that's a given hand. I'm here as finance minister when I was when I proposed the budget, and so was the Prime Minister of our government not once when she spoke here, offering my hand over some of the things that you're going to have to do now. Perhaps if there were courage politically if certain things had been done together in 2008, the ninth might be in a better situation today. Just one example. You were among the first to list a petition against a collective contract, a collective contract that did not suspend any labour law. He only created the possibility of opening new collective bargain negotiations in view of the new situation. But not for anyone, but for those who are connected to the state budget and those who are employed by companies in majority state ownership, so where is the Croatian state of the boss. Because it's illogical and I know that my colleague Linic is also thinking that someone who gets help from a billion-and-a-half, two from a state budget that can't exist if he doesn't get two kunas from the state budget, he has more rights than some companies that show profits of tens and hundreds of millions of kunas. So that was the proposal of that collective contract. You'll have to deal with it, but you have to say it. And now that I'm talking about that arm, that's when it was supposed to be a hand, that's when there were some things to see, and then there were some things to talk about. When we talk about the rights of Croatian defenders, these rights are based on some of the laws passed by this House of Commons. And we all declare our oath to the Homeland War swear to the Croatian defenders. And also if someone thinks that some law that gives rights to Croatian defenders is not good, that offers some privileges that don't belong to us, so propose a law, and we will discuss it here, everyone will present their opinions, suggestions and Croatian defenders should give reviews that protect their interests. Because colleagues and colleagues of all Croatian defenders did not take the rifle to war to achieve the privileges of any of them. And when we start talking about such privileges, then we impute it to them, and that's not good. And that's why colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about this program, we all need to be aware of the seriousness of the situation we're in. And perhaps this morning's news of Slovenia's credit rating taking down the credit rating best points to that. Slovenia, which had a much larger credit rating than Croatia, is not because it is much better, but for one single reason it was an EU member. That's all. That's all. So they're down by credit ratings and it's... it's telling us that we can't throw heavy grades and estimates that just don't stand because we don't think that we can move the industrialization of the country overnight. Why? Well, they saw what Europe's most developed countries, France, Germany did at the beginning of the economic crisis. They're closed. The capacity of the domestic economy was the greatest benefit for their market. Since 2009, you have not been able to buy any French cars produced outside France, regardless of the French brand. So that's the problem when we talk about industrialization, it's easy to produce, and it's easy to sell to. So, a series of these problems. And what I didn't see, if he's standing in there, I apologize right now on behalf of my colleagues at the club, what about road construction? What about Corridor VC? What about the Zagreb-Sisak highway? It's not in the program... now if there's any honor. I'd love to hear that as a confirmation that we're not discussing it anymore. So, colleagues and colleagues set a series of questions on this material that's here. The second thing is, it's not good at material found as a government programme to propose a lot of things that have already been solved by laws that have been passed backwards for 5 or 6 months, which already exist and that you have voted for here in the House of Commons. Therefore, these laws exist, should be applied. And there's something else I want to look back on because it's a project that's been given plebisidary support in this house, which is OIB. To talk about social policy, to talk in general about some kind of fair policy where someone is exercising some rights from the state budget, and not mentioning the OIB is simply ridiculous. Because we finally and definitely need to define that someone who has something can't get because some revenues don't see any help from the state and local budget. Where the OIB got stuck, he got stuck a year ago in the High Commercial Court. Why, because 50,000 companies established prior to the amendment of the Law on the Court Register which stands among other things that cannot be established by a company if someone owes a tax, etc., this has been amended by the Law on the Court Register, why someone bothers to seduce those 50,000 companies with all the owners, not just to see one, and that their respective rights are regulated by some kind of social contract. And when we open it, then we have a clear image of each of us, and we won't need anyone to throw this or that away, you'll see clearly. And let each one answer for what he has. But also certain that in such a way we will eliminate many who do not have the right to receive something from the budget. But colleagues and colleagues, I'm saying this now as if we were... in power, but that's what you're supposed to suggest because it's your job now. [[You don't understand.]] As for the pension insurance of a colleague and a colleague, fiscally looking with full respect for the pensioners, that is the biggest problem right now. Why, because it creates a minus 17 billion. You collect so much from your pension insurance contributions. I know that now a colleague of the Hrelja will say pensions, but these people who have received pensions under some special rights have worked and paid pension contributions in one part of their lives, but a minus 17 billion kuna is created. The other thing, we've implemented a pension reform in which we and you, to be clear, have spent it at the end of the term, and you've had it for four years, unfortunately she is who she is. We failed to raise that rate, the second rate of retirement, for the second pillar of retirement to 7% or 8%, but there is not a word about it here, which is one of the crucial problems, the crucial problems for the future of Croatian pensioners, and that is not a question that can be skipped. The other thing, and I'm going to end it slowly, of course, with decentralisation, but first I want to say something. My colleagues and colleagues, we are unique here as regards joining the European Union, we are unique about the fact that we should not only comply with our legislation but also start to apply it, then let us also be fair and with this government having to sign certain contracts, obligations, etc. And I admire the laxative here definition of shipbuilding. One pure, greedy definition that doesn't even understand that the SAA signed a colleague, I think, is a colleague of Mimica or who or who or who, Tonino in 2001, and that he made a commitment to get rid of the shipbuilding by '96. Unfortunately, you did it, you gave it 8 billion, and we managed to solve it with an additional 12, 13 billion, but we signed some documents to solve the shipbuilding problem. And let us not play that we will be able to do it another way because if the European Union declares all support to us since 30.3.2006 illegal, it is several billion kunas for this state budget. And in the end only if I can do two sentences...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u874	Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u875	You got it. Decentralization. My colleagues and colleagues, local self-government revenues are income tax and that municipal contribution and municipal compensation. If you want to decentralise the funds, then you have to decentralise the obligations because there is simply no fiscal capacity if more and one lip is taken from Croatian citizens' pockets based on new taxes because then you will make the biggest social impact and therefore unfortunately we cannot support this proposal... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u876	Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that it's time to report a ten-minute hearing. That's one piece of information. And secondly, we have more reports to discuss by representatives and clubs 3 and 16 individual debates. The word has on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Mr Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u877	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The appointment and selection of the new government is a significant event in itself, and here at this present time because of the crisis in which the country is located and the very demanding obligations that stand before the country this is indeed a special moment. There are elections and coalitions behind us that have done their job well, and now we are back at the beginning, such as the logic of this business that we are dealing with and, therefore, with the general crisis that governments and in Croatia, I am talking about the economic crisis, there will, of course, be speech, there is a loss of trust, uncertainty, a sense of hope among citizens, and these are certainly not circumstances that are suitable, but they can be encouraging. On the other hand, we also have established institutions that need to be completed, and we also have a very looking European Union framework that can also be useful and encouraging for the major shifts that this government needs to make. Governments are changing, but with these circumstances that I'm talking about, this government has a chance because of a number of circumstances to make one significant leap in state leadership and management of all public resources and of course with consequences for the total society that comes out of it. Compared to 12 years ago when this political group composed the Croatian government, the circumstances are despite the fact that the economic situation is more difficult today than they were 12 years ago. Society is not so ideologically divided, it is not impregnated, there is a space for rational political evaluation of all policies and all parties, and it is certainly one positive circumstance. However, there has been a growing lack of confidence in politics, but concrete mistrust with a political group has decreased, and this really leaves room for better quality and better working from the parliamentary majority position and from the government's position. If we exempt these, those first 10 years of creation and the initial consolidation of the state with this second term of this political group, we are actually coming to a ratio of 8 years to 8 years, which means that citizens have had the opportunity to see one and the other, value one and the other, and through this evaluation we are also raising and raising ourselves and thus creating conditions for politics and the effect of politics to be valued and looked at in a different way, to truly appreciate what is good and to sanction what is bad. And these are certainly circumstances which are therefore suitable for the good work of this government. This coalition, which has, therefore, a mandate to put the government at the helm with Mr Milanovic, is homogeneous and simpler than she was, thus giving it a chance and a chance for its functioning to be better, and it is not to ignore neither the experience nor the holder of the government and the parliamentary majority but also the experience of citizens in monitoring and evaluating the government. It's certainly high expectations. We've been to pre-election meetings. Everyone sitting here in this Croatian Assembly and the only question citizens asked us, and especially after winning the elections, was whether we would be better off. So there are great expectations but these are not only the expectations of the citizens who voted for this coalition that has the mandate of the government but of all citizens and that is, that softening, the positive softing of the Croatian policy that I am talking about. From the government's programme objectives, I will stress only those that are most significant and which should be addressed in the short term, and on some in the long term, I will pay the greatest attention. The basis of this programme is the economic programme and it is the strongest and best developed and it is because it is a requirement momentary. Croatia is therefore in various types of crisis, but the economic crisis and the fall of standards is something that citizens most directly and most difficult to feel. And that is why it is important that it is an important part of this programme, because only on the basis of the economic programme, a good economy can develop all other policies. It is also often said that good social policy, good economic policy but, in fact, on the basis of good economic policy, economic stability is developing and all other policies are developing. These policies may be good, but they can never be very successful if there is no economic basis. And that's why it's important to highlight what's written in the government program. It is that, with 2015, economic growth is expected of around 5%. Of course we have one unpleasant circumstance, which is that we are not on the wave of the total growth of the economy in the world and in our environment. But if we achieved that goal with some expected 20% growth in these four years, it would be a big deal. With a 10% increase in the number of employees and a 10% increase in wages, it would be a great success. Citizens are ready for less than that. They just want to know, they want to trust that tomorrow will be better, that it won't be worse than it is today, and they're ready even for temporary difficulties if they trust the government, if it works competently, if it explains to them what it's doing, they're ready for difficulties and for denials if they know they're going to get better in a few years. And it's a great responsibility and a great task of this government. The second part of the programme that I will highlight is long-term, and that is, of course, education. The long-term success of each policy and society rests on education. I'll only emphasize two elements of the program. It is the first building of primary and secondary schools so that in 4 years, all of our primary and secondary schools could work in one shift and have a full-time course. It's a big project, not just a construction project, but it's primarily a big investment in the future. And the second goal that is set here is to raise the number of shares of highly educated citizens of this country to 30% from the current 15%. And if we lay the foundations of this mandate, it will indeed be a major shift. And of course with that growth, with that share of citizens of highly educated citizens, citizens with a third degree of education will, of course, achieve all other goals. And they will, of course, have an additional impact on this current need for economic growth. The third dimension I'm going to highlight is to take care of the state administration. A state administration that should be available to citizens and at the service of citizens. And today at 21. For centuries, we have a situation for citizens to carry papers from one state institution to another at the time of information communication, which is something that is absolutely unreasonable, incomprehensible. And it's one of the great tasks, because management isn't there for itself. The administration's here for the citizens. And it is particularly important here to stress, to mention that it says in the government's programme that the share of local self-government will, of course, involve powers. There's no fiscal decentralisation unless they're decentralisation powers. To go to 25%, which will only bring us closer or reach the European average of the unit share of local and regional self-government in total public costs. It is also a major shift and actually the first major leap that we expect after 1993 when we set up local and regional self-government. And it's been less than all these twenty years being kept in these insufficient and harmful, actually limiting frameworks. And finally, as the fourth point to be highlighted, this is the European Union framework, which, of course, gives itself nothing but a chance, provides an opportunity. And it's not just a question of funds most often spoken of. This is the issue of the funds most talked about, it is a question of overall cooperation and the possibility of development through this cooperation in all other areas of education, culture, transport and all those segments where Croatia has integrated its policy into the European Union. It is a great opportunity, such as, of course, the great chance that through these experiences, we build our institutions through these contacts and raise the overall standard of order of our country, which is a really great opportunity, and it would really be very important to make the most of this opportunity. As for the work of members of the future government, of course there will be mistakes, mistakes cannot be avoided either in much simpler and less demanding tasks than the leadership of government and ministries, but let them not be too many, be sustainable. What is important and more important than that, for then there will be fewer mistakes, to be full of dedication. Ministers, members of the government must show full commitment to this work, willingness to learn, skills and, of course, as a fundamental principle of work for the common good this four years to achieve what has been promised to the citizens, for which it has been guaranteed. This is a big thing for each of the future members of the government, this mandate will mark their lives, there is not often a chance in life once, two, three extreme cases and more an opportunity to be a minister and to fulfill and execute what you have all your life as a advocate, as a politician spoke, and therefore the success of ministers and government members will greatly mark their personal lives. The club of HNS representatives will certainly try to help them. It won't be easy for this government to be good, it'll be even less easy for the government to be very good, and it could have every chance, and we leave the government the right to be great. The Croatian People's Party's Club with full support, but also great expectations will vote for Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, a proposal for tones of government and a programme of work of the Government of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u878	Thank you very much. The word is from Mr. Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u879	Dear Mr. President, the esteemed future Prime Minister of Croatia, respected future members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I want to say here that this is the third term for the Croatian party of pensioners, and for the third time we have created preconditions for the growth and development of this political option, this time we have done it as part of the success of the Kukuriku coalition, so the coalition of SDP, HNS, IDS and the Croatian Party of Retirement. It is important to underline at the beginning of my presentation that the Croatian Party of Retired in the past two mandates has never challenged any government results that were positive for Croatian pensioners, but never in any way failed to criticise all those who had preferred and in any way threatened the standard of pensioners, either by doing or by inaction. It is worth stressing that the Croatian party of pensioners is a proud and reliable member of the winning coalition, and fully supports the Government of Croatia's mandate programme, I underline, today we are talking about the government's mandate programme 2011 through 2015, so this is not any short-term platform. The programme is a framework that is broad enough to provide opportunities and implementation of operational policies, so it is not necessary for this programme to be a specification of all the activities that the Government will do during the term of office. The Government of the Republic of Croatia included proposals from the Croatian pensioners' parties in the health system, pension system, welfare system and the world of work. The government programme also denied all those who objected yesterday at the Parliament's session that only one word of the pension system was mentioned in the section of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. For us in Croatia, the foreigners of pensioners are far more important results and solutions than code sentences. I think that the government's programme is about the pension system is very specific and that the programme in the health, pension systems, social and working world nominates jobs and obligations for which one term will certainly not be sufficient for realisation. So what's nominated here as a program must be crossing the framework of a term of office. In the chapter on the pension system and social policy that some things need to be highlighted. Yes, there is talk of improving the pension system and completely eliminating shortcomings and injustice. Yes, there is injustice. It was discovered during these pre-election campaigns that certain rights are enjoyed by those who have not earned them, who are not covered. Yes, there are shortcomings, and due to the failure to resolve in the past two mandates, these shortcomings hinder the development of the pension system. Yes, pension rights should be distinguished from the rights laid down by specific laws. I'm giving Mr. Shucker the right to say that there's something in every defense attorney's office. There is. In every pension law there's this one done, so let's tell the difference, what's earned by payment of contributions, and what's special rights. Of course we stand firmly behind the abolition of the current system of privileged pensions for parliamentary representatives, government members and constitutional judges, or the Constitutional Court judges, of course we want to create conditions for the new justice of the pension system, for better, greater social sensitivity, and of course for what is most needed in times of crisis and this is new social cohesion. It's easier said than done, but when it's said and it all starts with a word, I hope we operate on it. We don't believe in HSU that change will happen overnight, it will take a lot and hard work on it. Of course, it is also worth protecting the real value of pensions and harmonising it with the cost of living growth because it is a new position in the pension insurance system. Of course, it can and must be better arranged for early retirement because it is not exclusively the will of the person who retires but can be the only possibility or may be the result of the closure of the company, i.e. the cancellation, or the resolution of the technical surplus. That it wasn't true that Mr. Shucker noticed that the program did not mention the second pillar and the promotion of the second pillar as a permanent commitment of this government. And it stands exactly, and I quote: "we take the obligation to create conditions for better pensions from the second stage by participating in workers, employers and states." We will also stimulate pension savings in the third pillar and for our coalition, and this is all contained in this programme has never been a matter or/or but has always been and. So also intergenerational solidarity and the first pillar and the second pillar and the third pillar. Contrary to those who bring courts without arguments here, I declare very responsibly that HSU will be responsible for the functioning of 4 existentially important systems and will also be represented in the executive power in the positions of Deputy Minister and Assistant Minister. And I certainly want to repeat that the fundamental political objective of the HSU that we have been saying is to be good, to be qualityd in the Croatian Parliament at the place where laws are made, where decisions are made that are essential for Croatian pensioners. I think we will achieve good and productive co-operation with the future prime minister and future minister of labour and pension system and if we could choose Mrsic would probably be the choice of HSU. Which means it's for him a party to his future. So we are aware that there is a terrible deal of work, and there is more than enough reason to accept the challenges of governance. Mr. Future Prime Minister, future members of the Government today will give you a license to run the country. So the decision we're going to make is a land management license. Work with barbecue, show passion for the well-being of all Croatian citizens, learn the experiences of others and communicate with citizens and you will be successful. You can always count on HSU in any situation because we have proven so far that we are subject to results and work for the common good. Good luck and good luck to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u880	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Josip Leko on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u881	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected Prime Minister for the Croatian Government, respected candidates for members of the Croatian Government. I wondered if at first or eventually I'd tell you, so I decided at the beginning. The SDP Club, as well as citizens, trust you to expect from the new government and mandaters wisdom, determination, responsibility and honesty, policy by principle and by value in favour of the general, national and state interests of Croatian society and Croatian people, and we give you confidence and we will give you the satisfaction of trusting in your abilities, your responsibility, your determination and your honesty. And speaking of such an important document in the life and politics of a nation, such as the adoption of a new government programme and the vote of confidence to the new government, I want to highlight several social democratic values of the new government programme in front of the Croatian SDP club in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, I repeat, there is no question that the government will gain trust, but you need to know where we come from and what we inherited, which we can therefore expect. The truth, regardless of where we come from, what we inherited, should be expected to be the Croatian Parliament, and this is emphasized by the prime minister for the composition of the new government as a place of common Croatian interest and the coordination of that interest among us representatives of citizens in this House. That's one newspaper we've never heard from so far. I welcome her on behalf of the SDP club. The truth is, the development of Croatian society and Croatian economy from far away in 1994, unfortunately, did not go for the benefit of Croatian workers, in general, did not go for the benefit of those in the Croatian society living from their work. All macroeconomic indicators and all development indicators in Croatian society since these years have not been able to undo the fact that there have never been fewer than 250,000 workers in Croatian society who want to work and have no place to work. Even today's situation is no better. Today, we have about 310 thousand Croatian citizens who insist on working and have no place to go. It is the obligation of the new Croatian government to keep this fact in mind as a priority. Of course, on the tides of support from Croatian citizens, and on the wave of victory, we cannot forget other narrow clans and sinks in the modern development of Croatian society. It should be pointed out that today, perhaps the most difficult economic battle to pay for working in Croatian society is because we have about 60 billion kunas of dues and not charged. About 60 billion. According to the information you've been telling us, Mr. former ministers, who's been published by the finance institute. We also have the fact that Croatian external debt is again speaking circus 48 billion euros. Such facts give particular importance to changing the direction of economic development in circumstances where it does not go hand in hand or economic situation in the environment, neither in the European Union nor in the world scales. But politics without value, without principles, without goals, is not a policy either, we trust the government that is coming, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic that priorities are put in place for Croatian society, and here are recognised by many speakers that have been scattered for the past 20 or 17 years, more than it has been necessary to overcome this gap, among those who are constantly rich, whose system goes hand in hand and those who are increasingly impoverished and whose system does not benefit. We have on behalf of the values we represent and we want to stress this, that education and science in the long term is the only chance for Croatian society and the economy to become competitive in the countries of the European Union as well as in the world. I am convinced that this is the goal of national, strategic and that it is recognised in the new government programme. In addition to this goal, and we have long been in favour of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, as well as in past mandates, education and science, we also find it very important to stress the need for decentralisation of the Croatian state, because we certainly did not take advantage of or use all the potentials, human potentials that would be demonstrated if the decision of organisations and money were better deployed. We are convinced that the programme, the item in the Government of Croatia programme, is also high priority. The next thing I want to point out, the programme, or strategic commitment for a long time, which has been directed in the right direction by the coalition government headed by Ivica Racan in 2000, joins the European Union, means that in the society of the countries and peoples of the European Union we feel better, safer, more responsible, and that we will take over in our society those democratic standards that the European Union countries have as a value in themselves. Why do I say that? The president, or prime minister of the new government, stressed the need for all the institutions of the democratic system to be developed. This is a value, especially should be stressed because democracy and implies a whole, not that one institution imposes on others, and then we do, and now I would not want to challenge political controversy for institutions to serve individuals, not people and citizens. Just one more tip. In Croatian society there are several points that should become a national interest or consensus, without such consensus, it is difficult to get out of the crisis and that they are less intense and that they are less profound. The hand offered by the prime minister and by the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia is not a form. It's not about us. It is a strategic interest of the SDP Club as well as of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We must use democracy as a means for all Croatian interests and interests of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be heard in the Assembly and to define national policies in such an atmosphere. I am convinced that the Proposer has opened the possibility of such a consensus with his wise and responsible appearance in seeking confidence in this House. I congratulate him on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u882	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u883	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So Mr. Leco isn't in these difficult moments to provide incorrect information. What is true is that all liabilities from the state budget have been settled and that all state-owned companies have fulfilled their obligation within 60 days. What you've been trying to say is that it's blocked accounts of FINA, and be honest that it's a permanent problem. Never forget the Law of Achieved and Unpaid Claims that you have made and what was the effect of that law, unfortunately these are claims that have been drawn yet to ask God ever since. Therefore, it is not good for all the situations to be true. Likewise, when we talk about external debt, only about 13% of the foreign debt applies to the state, therefore to this central state, and the rest to citizens and banks. You can make a business observation of whatever you want, these are facts that are just like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u884	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u885	Thank you very much, President. I'm sorry I had to use the institute, but I wasn't really talking about the corrections that my colleague Shuker listed. When I wasn't talking, then he couldn't even fix it, easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u886	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u887	I'm sorry, but my colleague, Leco, you said there were 60 billion unpaid bills. That's what you said, look at the phonogram. And you said it had 48 billion euros in foreign debt. That's what you said. Look at the phonogram.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u888	Thank you, and thank you for understanding Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament that he does not continue to pollomise because it is difficult with these institutions of ours to do so which we have in our Rules of Procedure. In an individual debate, Mr Branko Vuksic first applied, so I invite him to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u889	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister. This speech by Mr. Zoran Milanovic surprised me because it was a wise state speech, rarely good, inspiring and exempt from Mr. Vlado Gotovina's speech in front of the military administration building, perhaps one of the best political speeches I've ever heard. It seemed even honest. But we're here not only to listen to words but to wait for deeds, so we'll wait for this final assessment. I'd just like a few things I've noticed in a government program that may or may not be clear enough or missing. First, the experience with Slovenia teaches us means that the unfortunate arbitration that will come, we will see that we will all see to it that we need to get rid of the borders with BiH, Serbia and Montenegro as soon as possible. Let's be the ones to initiate the border issue from three neighbouring countries as soon as possible. Another thing that is not clear enough in the programme and which is missing is the question of social justice. In order for social justice to be established in a state that swears that social justice can be done in various ways. One is the tax system. Let's say progressive taxation gains, dividends and incomes. There was not a word about it, so I would like Mr. Prime Minister to make a statement as to how this government intends to establish social justice. One question I am very interested in without whose solution there is no democracy in Croatia is the issue of the media. Here in the programme of future governments, the media has just been mentioned. What it says is similar to the hints from the bad manual. You'd be more precise, more concise, more original if you'd written on the blank paper list just what it says in the American Constitution, the media would be free. For the nakarada that happens on HRT, the left and right sides of this assembly are responsible. What is happening there is also threatening to bring down democracy in Croatia. Public media is the only relevant public media in Croatia HRTV this government needs to create that it is where professionalism begins, but not according to party principles, not that one editor who supported let's call it conditional, right to now come down from power, and get to power those who will support the Kukuriku coalition. I therefore ask the Prime Minister, the minister who will lead the care, especially the culture minister, who will make sure that conditions are created in Croatia in order to suppress media freedom, the old practice of asphyxiation of the media has been abandoned and to introduce order in both electronic media and written media. To the future government, I wish the Prime Minister good luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u890	Thank you very much. You see all sorts of consultations going on, that's the session. No one intervened in the sense of correcting incorrect allegations, so then I give my word to Mr. MP Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u891	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm especially glad to hear the live maestro speech of the future prime minister. He was commended by others, but I feel obliged to say myself that the speech was state-owned and that I was particularly impressed by the council. Consciliated, called for cooperation. I expect that in this House this concillability will be realized. Not like yesterday night. Let's forget yesterday night as one really ugly and bad episode, let's behave differently. So far, in this House, 20 beautiful customs have been all that the opposition proposes is being thrown into the basket because it has proposed an opposition, so we know who has the mandate in mind. It's not like that in the state, nor in those who received 58% or 85% of the votes have a complete mandate in mind. If that changes, then Croatia will become a real democracy. I hope that happens. The program as presented to us is, I'm not going to say a list of good wishes, but above all a list of needs, a list of what is really to be done in this country. There are some other things that aren't in there, but what's in there with a few exceptions about supporting the liberal market, too much freedom of the market that's been going on around our heads, everything else in the program seems to sound good to me. What I miss is the answer to the fundamental question of all the political acts and budgets that will soon come, and that is the question of who will pay for it. For example, in a chapter of active employment measures on page 6 it says that entrepreneurs will be stimulated so that newly employed people do not pay a contribution. No free contribution, no free lunch, somebody's got to pay for it. On page 2, when it comes to the health system, when it comes to the pension system, they will be rationalised but the level of rights will not fall. Now I don't understand, on the one hand it won't be paid and somewhere it's even talking about reducing the contribution to these two areas, and on the other hand, the level of law will remain the same. That sounds unconvincing to me, so I guess we'll have a chance to discuss it. I'd like to say a few words about a chapter that a lot of people have talked about and on behalf of clubs as one of the most important chapters, it's a chapter of education. I expected at the top of that chapter the government's promise of a future and ruling coalition that the level of separation would be the percentage level of separation for education as actually the key to survival. It's not that we're gonna be smarter, that we're gonna... 30% highly educated, 20, 50, it doesn't matter how much. [[You don't understand.]] The key to survival in Europe, the key to survival in a civilized world, is education. I expected the promise that separation, the percentage separation for education, would increase above the European average, because if we want to catch the European average, we cannot catch it by reaching the European average now. He's going to go up there somewhere, not to talk about absolute numbers on the head of the population and anything like that. So this separation, if Croatia really wants to catch up with those it joins, would make it seem I should be significantly bigger. The signs are kind of shy in there, I'd love to have open opinions on the matter. The education chapter in one place discusses compulsory education, hence one-way school work, and similar to what will result from compulsory education until the first profession. Does that mean mandatory high school and still asking who's gonna pay for it? The system is crazy expensive, we all know it. I am particularly pleased in this chapter that the emphasis is given not only on science, science is important, scientific progress is important, research basics are important, all this is a fact, but inside it again after 10 years has gained the importance of the word technology. Technology is what Croatia actually lacks, which is both in the research sense and in every other sense pushed into the seal and one of the key reasons why we were lagging behind where we could be. For a time, Croatia has been able to profile itself for a very short time and not in all segments of industrial development by doing what the West is no longer doing because it is too expensive, for various other reasons it no longer works and what the East does not know. The East, meanwhile, invested huge money, huge money, hundreds of universities founded, technology universities, huge money to capture Western knowledge. And they moved, one part of that title was abolished, and China today produces things that 20 years ago she couldn't dream of. I know some concrete examples from the textile industry, something that they couldn't dream of today products just routinely. We didn't move on that plan. Today we still try the same way as 15 years ago to produce in large quantities of women's laundry. We don't stand a chance, we don't have a chance of doing it the way we did it 15 years ago. Technological development involves the transfer of technology, so taking over what we can take over, which we are able to take over both human and human resources and running at actually high speed to stay in place. The mention and number of 30% of highly educated people as one of the strategic goals of this government which is, of course, commendable, but let's not mention it's not 30% of people who will end up in Zagreb, Rijeka and Split University, it's 30% of highly educated people. In the Western world institutions that give such a percentage are called Facho schule, University of applied sciences and similar places. In Croatia too, we have such institutions. And I think the ministry should pay a lot more attention to these professional studies than it's ever been. Everything in the program is promising. The government is who it is. Croatian Labourists and I personally hope that things will go this way in which they are written and that they will be fulfilled. We don't give Bianca a note to anyone, but we hope that this government will reverse the trend and the road where Croatia is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u892	Thank you very much. Here is Mr. Representative in the individual debate, Mr. Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u893	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. In my debate today, I would like to make a contribution to the government's programme, which is being presented today in the Parliament, about candidates for future government ministers who are to be trusted in the Croatian Parliament today. What should be mentioned by the Croatian Democratic Community club and HDZ representatives here in the Croatian Parliament above all are, we are responsible for our voters, to all those who have trusted the Croatian Democratic Community. And first of all, in our work as a constructive and responsible opposition, we will give our constituents our hand. And after that, we'll follow up, given that here's the program that you're presenting to us today a more or less principled program. He has a lot of shortcomings in us, a lot of things you've looked back on in our government's past term and where there's a lot to be said today to understand and what you're going to be doing in the future. In order to gain the trust or support of the opposition or us here in the Croatian Parliament, you will have to start and do something. You haven't had a chance yet, because to remind you you were in power at a time of 20 years of Croatian statehood for three years. So you will have to make an effort to make the opposition what you said today, Mr Milanovic, that you will give your hand to everyone in the Croatian Parliament. You'll have to show it first with your work. What is very important at the beginning and today's work, i.e. we have already started for several hours this first working day yesterday of the Croatian Parliament has proved quite clumsyly organized. You said that in law making, you would make sure that laws are not laws on some political needs, but laws that serve our citizens. We were in our debate yesterday, first of all, on the Committee on Legislative Law that we had to leave because of the misunderstanding and the behavior we did not tolerate, and we thought we had the right as an opposition to say what we thought about the proposal. Yesterday, we asked ourselves whether the law we passed last night was the Law amending the Law on the Election of Mayors, Mayors and Mayors of the Law that you passed because of one person who today proved to be here in the Croatian Parliament that so. That person was proposed to the minister. And we, as MPs in the Parliament, have raised one excess, logical question whether this law is being passed because of it or whether this law is being passed because of what your proposing representative was saying here in the Croatian Parliament yesterday. We did not get that answer, and as an opposition, we left the session of the Legislative Committee. That since you're most of this house, you can suggest whatever you want. No one forbade you, and no one considered it questionable. But on the issues that we have asked, given that we are dealing with one key law, a law that, in this way, without a broader debate, without parent committees, without those additional considerations that are very important, we believe that it is not good for Croatia to have someone perform their duties for two years and to be held as deputy mayor, that as deputy mayor for two years as deputy mayor, we consider that it is not good for Croatia to be a deputy mayor. We have the right to say that. We supported our legal position and our thinking in our debate. This program we got today, we got it relatively late. There wasn't much time to talk about it. We've got half an hour, but there's only one part of it that refers to the announcement of your government's new administration. Several points here say that a productive, serviced approach will be established to provide public administration services, that educated and competent civil servants will engage in a new administration, that they will ensure resilience to political pressures. This resistance to political pressure is evident in the proposal to amend and supplement the law, which is precisely what you have proposed political functions, which are the political functions of the assistant ministers, director of the administration, which will therefore depend on the government's will above all, and the government's will is primarily the will of the political option which governs that government. What is important to emphasise is that our Government has, therefore, been implementing and implementing the full depolitisation of public administration in the past time since 2005, and has also been a recommendation from the European Commission. So it can't be argued that it wasn't done. It can't be said that the public tenders were falsified and that all the people of their lives, out of their quality, were given for these competitions by their schooling. Well, here, we'll take care of it as an opposition. I personally know a few people who will definitely appear in a contest that you will publish, which are also highly professional, educated people, speak several languages. It will be interesting to see if they will get a chance to become officials whether directors or assistants in your government. So, in principle and floscularly speaking, you're going to be carrying out depolitisation, and exactly the opposite of this proposal when it's said to introduce new political functions. So that's where you need to make a difference from what you've been doing and what you're going to do. Also, educated and competent civil servants. Our government has introduced the State School for Public Servants and we cannot say that so far the people who have worked in the public administration are not educated, competent civil servants. So it's also a bit of an insult to those who have done business so far. They're all educated, they're all competent, they're all honest and responsible for their duty. Whether they will have the trust of your government and your ministers depends on you, and I suggest, I ask you to treat people who have worked really hard in their work and in their work and who have done it honestly and honestly as people. It is very important to say that in this part, ensuring the transparency of data in the public administration is internal. I believe that we have also made great efforts and that was one of the key criteria for the conclusion of chapters that were chapter for Croatia's accession to the European Union. We can't say that everything we've done is wrong and that all those people who have been found in these administrations are doing nothing. We should, if we are going to do so, we as an opposition want to be constructive and we want to make a contribution to the quality of work of the Croatian Parliament. You have to let us say our opinion, whether you liked it or didn't like it depends on us. If we are to be a multi-party state, if we are to be a parliamentary system, a European country, a European spirit, then we will still bring some of the behaviors into these frameworks. We have suffered a lot and we have experienced a lot, and we just remember the last month of our mandate you haven't been full for a month and a half in the Croatian Parliament, at a crucial moment in the conclusion of the negotiations, the signing of the agreement, you've barely returned to the assembly. These were for us, therefore, indicators of what you were doing as an opposition in the Croatian Parliament and what you think. I'm sure you wouldn't stay in the assembly and I'm sure you'd boycotted it in every way possible. We have shown, however, that we are as an opposition and aware of the situation we are in, but that we are also aware of our responsibilities towards the voters who have given us confidence. We think there will be plenty of opportunities to show yourself and prove yourself, so far you can't get neither my trust nor the trust of your fellow MPs, because you haven't even had a chance to prove yourself in what you're doing. I invite you to Mr Milanovic if this is a European spirit that you have announced that this European spirit after 15 January when the Croatian Parliament starts to sit really shows up in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u894	Thank you very much. Further to the debate was reported and I give him my word, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u895	Thank you, Mr. President. I will try to stick to the framework set by the new prime minister, Mr Milanovic, some of the thesis he said here, and it seems to me that they are a little questionable. And of course the programme they offered us, but what is objectively said is one principle framework set up that will probably be read more clearly than the first draft budget, so in the 2012 budget, from which we will clearly see all the intentions, the real intentions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the coming period. But I would refer to several thesis that Prime Minister Milanovic said, and first the thesis that he will respect local self-government. If yesterday had not happened, we might have reason to believe that this is true and that this is true and that local self-government will be respected, but after yesterday it is hard to believe that we can believe in this thesis, Mr Milanovic, that you will respect local self-government, because yesterday's adoption of this law is not in the interest of Croatian citizens, but is in the interest of individuals who today, or who are to take over the role in the ministries, is not really the respect of the local self-government that we discussed yesterday. No opinion was heard from units of local self-government, no associations of cities, no associations of municipalities, no county associations, and the law concerning the same units of local self-government, or their leaders has just been amended. And that's why we can't trust your words that you'll respect local self-government. Just as you said in your address to the Croatian Parliament, the government did not see who was sitting in which unit of local self-government and were not under these criteria, hence the party's belongings were shared money from the state budget, and therefore it was not seen who was the leader in which the unit of local self-government was. I have to disprove you, that's not true. It was seen, and it was quite a view of who the leader was and what party he belonged to, and unfortunately under these criteria party belongings were shared the money, I hope that such a situation will not happen again in the future. The same way you said, Mr Milanovic, that we did not make reforms. We've made reforms, and we've made great reforms. Only when you look at the system of legislation, aligning with the acquis of the European Union, where many laws and new laws have been passed, and amendments to the laws of the Croatian law to adapt to the community towards which we are seeking, the European Union, and of course, the fully reformed Croatian society that has had the most difficult negotiations over the past 5 years. I think it is worth mentioning that these most difficult negotiations, which have been conducted so far with the European Union, compared with countries that have entered the European Union before us, absolutely meant the reform of Croatian society. That this is what all European Union officials and representatives and the European Commission's presidents, who have been following us all these years, and representatives and presidents of the European Parliament, so all those who have followed the reform of Croatian society on their way to the European Union. They all said that this was the hardest way, that these were the biggest challenges, and that Croatia has taken a huge step forward in the reform of its society to adapt to all those standards that are needed to easily join the European peoples' European Union and to meet all the challenges that are ahead of it as a member of the European Union. So it is not good today in your opening speech in front of the Croatian Parliament to say that we have not made reforms. We have made reforms very well, we have made reforms, we have reformed Croatian society entirely. You have spoken of regional differences, I really want to believe that you will behave in this way, that you will strive in your mandate to ensure that all regions develop evenly. I must warn you that one part of Croatia is not equal to other parts of Croatia. Only one part of Croatia is isolated, unrelated to other parts of Croatia, and this is part of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. I urge you to think carefully about stopping the start of the Peles Bridge. The project, which we consider not only a priority at local, county level, but a national priority is indeed of exceptional importance to the citizens of Croatia.../The speaker is not understood. Since the prime minister left without being able to communicate with the members. Mr. President, since the prime minister has left, and we cannot communicate with members who will be members of the government, the question is, who am I talking to now?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u896	Here, you can contact here all round, and Mr. Milanovic may have gone to drink a glass of water. And he, as you've seen, went out several times, but came back in a few minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u897	Look, this is a communication between the Prime Minister's office and the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u898	Maybe it's better if we don't talk about it right now. He now has one consultation that is very important, you know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u899	Okay. Here I want them to at least hear those who will be in the government of the Republic of Croatia. So, this project of connecting the Croatian South with the Croatian queen, so the rest of Croatia, as we speak in southern Croatia, is considered extremely important because we believe that only when that part connects with the rest of Croatia that we will be equal citizens. And so we appeal to all those who will deal with this problem not to give up building this extremely important project, so the Peljega Bridge. Also in your program we cannot see in the infrastructure a continuation of highway construction towards Dubrovnik. It doesn't say that here in the infrastructure, it only says something about the city of Rijeka, about the railways. And I also appeal that this project continues to be built and to continue to be built as it was drawn up by the state strategy of building highways and the spatial plan of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and which means through the Republic of Croatia because I really think it would be bad to give up the project of connecting Dubrovnik by highway because they would also put that part of Croatia in an unequal position. No other part of Croatia is as unrelated to the rest of Croatia as Dubrovnik. Not a single piece. We're cut off by the state border. We're going across the territory of another country. And there were also announcements that you would allegedly build a highway towards Dubrovnik via BiH territory. It is absolutely unacceptable for us down from the Croatian south. And indeed here we are calling for you to think very carefully about how you will solve this problem of the integration of the Croatian South with the Croatian queen because we really consider it of great importance, we consider it a truly national priority. Since more and more time is about to end, but I can see that there are no mandates here, I'll finish my presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u900	Thank you very much. Next speaker representative Mr. Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u901	So here's the honourable Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to express my grief that we've been on the government programme, and that's been said more than once, so the most important document that should determine how the government is going to function, get at the last minute, and we haven't really had enough time to study it in detail, analyze such a serious 62-page document, which, of course, suggests and the seriousness that this programme actually takes into account. The words I'd like to use is she's just an amazing ease actually leading up to the obvious fact that there are enough hands to vote on anything. But I ask the question is that the purpose of parliamentary democracy? What I'd like to say is that actually the program is extremely general. The program is extremely general and he is actually although Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic said that he is not only a wish list and is not actually a utopian one document, he is actually a fact that he is such and that he is actually quite different from what is very eloquent although quite generally being said in speech. So that makes me a little worried because obviously the real program isn't in this, he's hidden somewhere. So the question is, what's he really going to be? If the programme is a contract with citizens then citizens must, of course, know what they are signing, and that is not very clear. What is important is to mention, I would not go into detail but only mention the rationalization of the existing system, the reduction of the number of offices, offices, agencies, savings and reduction of red tape, and we are actually witnessing that four new ministries are being created with hundreds of obviously new officials who will be hired. There are so many ministers that they don't even fit for these two tables so some very respected future ministers have to even peek out because they don't fit for these tables. So it's a little conflicting with what's said. What I would especially point out is the fact that there is nothing in the programme about the most intelligent policy, and I think it was for Croatia, and it is quite important now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u902	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Mladen Novak came forward for the debate, please. He's gone. He's losing his word. The next representative is Mrs. Nancy Tyrelli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u903	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for saying hello to your esteemed colleague and colleague. First of all, I'm going to say thank you to Mr. Prime Minister for his inspired speech, and from what I'm about to say, you'll hear why he was personally inspired to me. We had very little time to analyze the program as such, so here I was focusing on one particular thing, and of course everyone finds it when they read what hurts him. In your address in the election campaign, you kept saying you were working as a coalition team and a team of politicians with citizens. It seems to me that you've confirmed this program that's been on the benches in front of us today, but I also think you've predicted one thing, which is that for one program, it's necessary to be synchronised, which, unfortunately, I don't think this is the case. Here is, in fact, in Chapter 2 of which we are talking about economic policy in the subtitle of improving the business environment, the development of institutions and the promotion of new investments in the area of energy, and Chapter 6 on environmental, nature and space protection policies confirm this. I quote: "The protection of the environment, natural resources, space in the Republic of Croatia is an extremely important political and development issue that will be a priority for the government to adapt the Croatian economy to the concept of a new green agreement". You advocate the introduction of order and objectivity in the process of making and assessing environmental impact studies while at the same time advocating the Plomin III Termopower Plant. to deny coal in a statement. The development of the Republic of Croatia in a modern country which is at the service of citizens is the basis of the Government's programme, you say, such a state is necessary, and as a prerequisite for consistent and universal achievement of human and civil rights and freedoms. Your vision rests on the protection of individuals, from the power of authority and state. I've just quoted all of this from this program of yours that we got on the benches today. In your term of office, your aim is to create a new space for joint action in the creation, implementation and supervision of policies that are of direct interest to citizens. You want to encourage transparency and openness of the work of the public authorities, and the involvement of citizens and civil society in public policy-making. Then how do you think and what do you justify your decision to build the Plomin III Termopower Plant? on coal and not gas, as it states in the decision of the County of Istria in the number 10 of 2008, where Article 30 of the Decided Regulation states: Article 127 adds paragraph 4 which reads: "A large energy plant with significant CO2 emissions should provide for plants for CO2 extraction and storage. The new Plomin III thermal power plant. It must use gas as energy.". How and by which you interpret and justify the construction and the thermal power plants are more efficient than it is allowed by the spatial plan of the County of Istria. And finally, in which way you intend to be transparent and involve citizens and civil society in the design of your public policy. The only thing that's transparent from this one single example is that by deciding to build this existing thermopower plant III. on coal, shut down the decision of the County Assembly and the county spatial plan and most regrettable of all the will of the citizens, which you say you listened carefully. I said at first to thank the speaker for his inspired speech, he was inspired for two reasons. As much as there were ugly situations in this House yesterday, I am comforted by the fact that if something is wanted, this government showed yesterday if it was meant to do something, if something wants it to be very simply done. This is what I'm appealing to you for, this unfortunate thermopower plant III. It stands in some projections of the development of the energy future of the Republic of Croatia and I ask you that in the way we changed certain things yesterday, we are also changing the matter to be built on gas, and that this respects the county's decision of the Istrian County. It was inspired because the prime minister said that the real reforms of the systems we are deciding on from the heart, stomach and mind begin. I want to believe in it with all my heart and believe that when it comes to Termo Power Plant III. really be a matter of both heart and mind and stomach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u904	Thank you, too. And finally from the representatives on behalf of the Club for 5 minutes, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, on behalf of his HDSSB Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u905	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Milanovic, Prime Minister, gentlemen candidates for ministers. It's Christmas in two days, so this government could in some ways be called the Christmas government, whether it's Christmas Eve, whether it's rewarding us or it's going to be different, we're going to see it very soon. In any case, the words spoken by Mr. Prime Minister in terms of the metaphor of the word and sentence of St. Augustina "believe and act" and then according to what was ordered in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme and the realization and what was in the 21st point so much of the government's programme as well as the pre-election programme of the Kukuriku coalition was presented as a contract with citizens if I understood it well and remembered it, I would like it to be achieved but also beyond the guaranteed 2004 prime minister card because of these guarantees there was nothing. I hope this one, to say the so-called Christmas government, doesn't go as that government did with the guarantee card of Mr. Ivo Sanader. I must take the opportunity to congratulate the candidate for and I believe the future minister of fellow Jakovina, the first minister for 20 years of the existence of the Croatian state from Slavonski Brod and that candidate for the Minister of Agriculture. I wish it was based on a policy of decentralisation which is 21st place in this programme, unfortunately, whether it means it is 21st or it will still be moved forward that the Ministry of Agriculture has been dislocated somewhere in Slavonia, so why not in Slavonski Brod where the Minister of Agriculture is from. But that's what I'm talking about. There was talk of us being in your exhibit that whenever we were integrated-open, we were successful. Well, it's not like that. If that were always the case, we wouldn't be talking about it today in a negative light both Vienna and Budapest and Belgrade, if there were more, I don't know, Venice. She's with a V not with a B, yes, so it's not exactly consistent, I don't fully agree with this opinion. "Circulus Vitiosus" who, as a circle, swims in the liquid of debt slavery before which Croatia is facing, if it does not change, and this very spotting thing is indeed "Circulus Vitiosus" from which to come out. Mr. Prime Minister, I hope that this government with 20 ministries will take measures in this regard, and according to constitutional provisions on sanctioning privatisation crime. Here in your program there is no word, but the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is incorporated into constitutional provisions, so I hope that in the judiciary, point No. 17 measures have been taken and that what you did in 2000, your government, if I recall so, was such a promise that criminal privatisation would be sanctioned, might come in line in 2012. Is that the delay of 11 years is great, but these things never go out of date, and according to constitutional provisions. So I'm asking you to take care of that, too. As counterpart Buric said on behalf of the HDSSB Club, we leave time for the government to act and believe, and the HDSSB Club will, as said, be restrained and monitored by your government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u906	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Prime Minister want to speak to you? The MPs, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u907	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I mean, by all accounts, the most attractive person in this House, but this is a very emotional moment for me. For the first time, I have the great honour of proposing to the Croatian government. And right away, let me say thank you and compliments to those who won't vote for this government, thank you for some logical remarks. There are and you can always find them whenever people do something, because this isn't a perfect algorithm, this is a program that's going to need to implement some things that will deny it, some things we don't see yet. We don't go like geese in the fog. We're the Airbus in the fog with a good navigation system. But every new situation is kind of a fog for every man. I don't see any things in it. And so thank you for some logical remarks and for some of them I'll look back here. He spoke to his esteemed colleague, Lesar, about the fact that we missed the mention of financial institutions and our relationship with them in this crisis and the fact that we all see that financial institutions are the biggest if not the only profiter in this crisis. I don't mean anything terrible by profit. Profit when it comes to it is paid tax. What kind of tax is that? What kind of tax is that? And what's the distribution of those taxes? It speaks of the very soul of society and politics. Our tax policy in Croatia has always been progressive less or more. In this sense, Croatia was never in socialism or in the first 10 years or in the other 10 years a neoliberal society and had no neoliberal tax system. There were some things to be corrected. We are talking about dividend tax and capital gains tax, and that is all they are in progressive tax taxation, and these are certainly measures that need to bring more justice and more order towards our seeing things in the tax system and in distribution. We've been very serious about this for years, and it's part of political mythology that we may have lost one election because we talked about it too much at a time when everything seemed to be honey and milk, and it wasn't in 2007, that maybe we started talking about it a little early. We are one of several countries that do not have this type of tax and we believe that this should be introduced rationally, so it may reasonably not be too high but to be there, because there is no reasonable justification why we do not have those taxes. But it will by no means be the pensioning of neither the financial institutions, but merely the introduction of a minimum order that we are talking about all the time. Elimination of contributions as incentive measures at a certain time is not a new cost, at least that's not how we see it, but incentives, incentives for entrepreneurs, businessmen, businessmen, those who commit and create a new value to employ people because right now it's very risky for them and they're afraid. It's not a new cost because these people who get a new job if they get it that way are already insured, so the cost already exists. In Croatia everyone is insured and it's a good thing, a good thing, unlike America, but it costs, we'll keep it, but we have to fortify. There was an objection here at the very beginning from the esteemed counsel Shucker that we had already been denied by some things in the walk. Maybe they are, but I don't think I'd agree that she's the one you listed as public contractors. In fact, yesterday we suspended a half-year of entry into force of certain provisions that should have entered into force 1. January, because we have some serious dilemmas about the system of public perpetrators, not about the Executive Law and some of the solutions found in it and which are not bad, because debts must be paid. No one who sends a different message does well, so you raise your child. The debt is paid. Otherwise you don't make it, you don't do it. And it is no protection of those who try to avoid their human and legal obligations. But we took the time to consider some things because we think that the system is a public contractor, and I didn't talk about it yesterday, so just a word or two, a system that is actually compensation or decompensation of a weak state, a state that admits that it is not able to collect debts through the existing system of courts and repression, and then invents a new category that exists in some countries, but by introducing that category. We recognize to ourselves that we are not a strong state, which, let's wait half a year, we have these deep reserves when it comes to institutions. The fiscal responsibility law. You remember that I was here as a smaller expert than you, or as an unprofessional but politician, talking about the Fiscal Responsibility Act almost 3 years ago when I was making a budget, and then I read something about it, I know some countries that did it, now everybody does it. Even the European Union is discussing far more large and ambitious things that completely alter the concept of sovereignty, and also fiscal, which is fundamental sovereignty. Now everybody's going that way. So I don't know whether to boast or say I'm afraid we'll have to go even more ambitious than the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Of course, we've never mentioned 10 billion bangs, but we'll have to consider the Fiscal Responsibility Act with some things to go even more ambitious. Will you support that and if our proposal will be good enough we'll see about that, but there will be a time very soon. decentralisation, that's both money and obligations, I agree. So not only the money, not just the allowance, but also the obligations. Functional decentralisation, perhaps one in Denmark, Finland or Sweden right away, but very soon. One of the first moves, no matter what the moment is rather difficult but this must not be an excuse, will be a proposal to form one expert body of the National Commission for the Reform of Local and Regional Self-Government in a functional and fiscal sense that will not pass you or the ruling majority of either the profession or the Academy or tax experts. Some countries have been doing it for 5-6 years, we may not have enough time to wait, but we need to see what we can bring down, how much money we can put down without jeopardizing vital social and social functions and placements because we've been developing and taking it healthy for almost 20 years. 20 years, that's how we worked. So the changes can't be abrutic, they can't be shocking, but they have to happen. One more thing I want to say here. Yesterday we had some changes to the laws that you reacted to very badly. I have to admit, it surprised me a little bit. In fact, it is known that every government when it comes, or when Parliament is established, the day before the government's constitution to amend these system laws. Each one has its own goals and projections and political ones. So we concluded that in taking responsibility for the country we needed a very small space, I said something about it and in the opening speech, that we would simply enable people who would take responsibility for complex and large resolutions that if they could not from the order of officials to find associates who are officials. It's a small number of people. These money projections we talked about are more or less accurate, although this isn't about some big savings. So the imperative will be, i.e. not imperative, but my advice and recommendation, and I said hold my word, that as many of the people of the current civil servants who are now on these highest official duties be kept at the same level. Look, there's a lot of professionals out there. I said I came from a system like that. Today when I look at some ministries, not all of them, I don't see any politicians. In some ministries, I see relatively representative and highly-ranked politicians in the mimicry of the directorial function, it's not very fair. That doesn't mean those people are gonna lose their jobs. So that's what the ministers have, they can't abuse him. The choice of local leaders, commissioners, mayors and mayors. That's not the happiest solution, so I agree that's not the happiest solution, but I would disagree with you because I think you're chasing the cause and the reason. The reason for amending the law and for extending this deadline to two years is that at this point, some people are coming into the executive power at the state level. However, these are not laws written for them, they would come anyway to the Croatian government. I would like to propose as part of the government's college, as part of the government. So it's not written for those people. The reason and motive is second and it's a matter of political assessment that we don't have to agree on. The reason is that we believe that practically a year before the regular elections there is no point in materially or politically having people, voters, so voters, but that's our assessment, going to the polls. And now that I'm not going deeper into the analysis so that I don't say when you've personalized those laws, that it's the environments in which in these elections our coalition has received huge support, huge support, and that probably in the next few months this support would remain the same, and that maybe we'd profit from that, and then maybe even a logical objection would be that we did it so we could quickly promote some new people and spend 10 million kunas that would be easier for a year to remain mayors and mayors. And you see how logic is a deceptive thing. So these are our motives, I assure you. One reason is, it is indeed the fact that some people are ours and my choice for the government, that they would go into that government to remain the law like this or like that. By the time that happened, the assessment is that this is some kind of less unfortunate solution, but the whole set of laws on local self-government is unfortunate, some of its aspects are unconstitutional, even so to speak. The relationship between the representative body and the mayor and the mayor is at the very border of the Constitution, a situation in which if the budget of the unit of local self-government is not adopted, if provoked by the mayor or mayor, the council or assembly is disbanded, is contrary to the provisions of the Croatian Constitution which say that the right to local self-government is exercised through the representative body in which representatives are elected directly and is taken from the European Charter of Local Self-Government. That's what we need to talk about, it's in the interest of the SDP and the HDZ and the HNS and all the parties in this House and the citizens. We have unconstitutional laws, we haven't talked about it here, but then. It will also be one of the topics to discuss this commission that we are talking about. For the end of my dear colleague and colleague, I will try to end all my strengths and efforts to hold on to what I said here today. We need strong opposition, we haven't silenced you or we can and we won't do it. Since it was here on several occasions that I was given the great honor of being compared to the government of Gotovina, although he wasn't left-handed the way I might be, but maybe he was more liberal than I am, then here I'll remember one of his verses out there from '81. A year that you don't literally understand because we all have to speak freely, we all have to be poets in some way in politics. And he says, "Shut up the poet, there will be a safer moment, but there will be a time lost." That seems like the appropriate thought of that man. And for the very end of Merry Christmas of Gregory, July, whoever you celebrate, the holiday of faith and the holiday of family and the happy New Year. I hope it gets better! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u908	I thank the prime minister, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. I'm closing the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been established that the government is on duty when it is trusted by most of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Article 107 Article 4 The Rules of Procedure have been established to vote in favour of the Government's proposal as a whole. I am voting to propose that the Croatian Parliament exercise confidence in the President and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that 89 MPs voted in favour of, 28 against, 12 abstentions, and that most votes have shown confidence in first Zoran Milanović – Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Radimir Cacic – Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Economy, Ms Milanka Opačić – Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth, Mr Neven Mimica – Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Branko Pusić – Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and European Union funds, Mr Slavko Linić – Minister of Finance, Mr Anti Kotromanović – Minister of Defence, Mrs Vesni Pusić – Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Mr Rank Ostojić – Minister of Interior, Mr Orsat Milenić – Minister of Justice, Mr Arsen Bauk – Minister of Defence, Minister of Defence, Minister of the Government, Minister of the Minister of the Ministry of Defence and Minister of Transport, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport, Minister of the Ministry of Transport and Minister of the Ministry of Transport, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport, Minister of the Ministry of Transport, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport of Transport of the Ministry of Transport of Transport, Minister of Transport of Transport of Transport, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport of Transport, Minister of Transport, Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport and Minister of Transport of Transport of Transport and Minister of Transport and Minister of Transport, Minister of Transport and Minister of Transport, Minister of Transport, Minister of Transport and Minister of Transport and Minister of Transport and Minister of Transport and Minister of Transport, Minister of Transport and Minister of Transport and Minister of Transport, Minister of Transport, Minister of Transport, Minister of Transport and Minister of Transport, Minister of Transport and Minister of Transport and Minister of Transport and Minister of Transport and Minister of the Minister of the Government of the Government of the Government of the Government, Minister of Transport, Minister of the Government of Transport, Minister of the Minister of the Government of I apologize to Mr. Maras. Mr Tihomir Jakovin – Minister of Agriculture, Mr Veljak Ostojić – Minister of Tourism, Mrs Mireli Holy – Minister of Environment and Nature Protection, Mr Ivan Vrdoljak – Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Mr Predrag Matic – Minister of Croatian Defence, Mr Rajko Ostojić – Minister of Health, Mr Željko Jovanovic – Minister of Education, Science and Sports and Mrs Andrei Zlatar Violić – Minister of Culture. Please, there's still going to be an oath now, and then we'll congratulate. [[Applause.]] So let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic, the Deputy Prime Ministers and all ministers and wish for successful and effective work. I thank the government so far. I thank her for her cooperation with the Croatian Assembly. And now, ladies and gentlemen, by showing confidence to the President and the members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the conditions for the Prime Minister and the members of the Government to give their solemn oath. This appropriation is intended to The Rules of Procedure have been established in the manner in which the oath is made. According to that article, the President pronounces the text of the oath, and then named after that by the presidents and members of the Government who stand up and say the oath. The text of the oath reads: I swear that I will knowingly and honorably act as a member of the Government, respect the Constitution, the laws and the legal order, and advocate all progress made by the Republic of Croatia. Mr Zoran Milanović – Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u909	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u910	Mr Radimir Cacic – Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u911	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u912	Ms Milanka Opačić – Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Policy and Youth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u913	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u914	Mr. Neven Mimica - Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u915	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u916	Mr Branko Grcic – Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and European Union Funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u917	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u918	Mr Slavko Linic – Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u919	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u920	Mr Ante Kotromanović – Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u921	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u922	Ms Vesna Pusic – Minister of Foreign and European Affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u923	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u924	Mr Rajko Ostojić – Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u925	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u926	Mr Orsat Milenic, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u927	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u928	Mr Arsen Bauk, Minister of Management.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u929	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u930	Mr. Gordan Maras, Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u931	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u932	Mr Miranda Mrsic – Minister of Labour and Pension System.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u933	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u934	Mr Zlatko Komadina – Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u935	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u936	Mr Tihomir Jakovina, Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u937	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u938	Mr Veljko Ostojić – Minister of Tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u939	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u940	Mrs Mirela Holly, Minister for Environmental and Nature Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u941	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u942	Mr Ivan Vrdoljak, Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u943	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u944	Mr Predrag Matic, Croatian Defence Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u945	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u946	Mr Rajko Ostojić, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u947	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u948	Mr Zeljko Jovanovic, Minister of Education, Science and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u949	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u950	Ms. Andreja Zlatar Violic, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u951	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u952	Thank you very much. I once again congratulate the president and members of the new government and wish them much success in their work. And I am giving a 30-minute break and informing you that the mandate committee will meet at the stop to prepare the report in the hall of Stjepan Radić room 133, and the Committee on the Constitution. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. Point 11 of the agenda reads as follows: 11. A report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to Mrs Gordan Sobol to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u954	Thank you, Mr. President. At its 2nd session held on 23 December, the mandate-immunity committee discussed written requests by the representatives for the term of office and the election, i.e. a proposal for deputies. The mandate-immunity commission discussed the request because of the incompatibility of the mandate, a request for rest due to the behaviour of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, who is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary post. The SDP shall comply with Article 12(1). The law on election of MPs has been laid down by the party, appointed Ivan Racan as deputy representative of Zoran Milanovic. The commission found that all the conditions laid down by law were met for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Zoran Milanovic, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Ivan Racan, and proposed unanimously to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a decision on the rest of MP Zoran Milanovic's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative Ivan Racan's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u955	Just a minute. Now I'm opening a debate on this proposal. I am concluding the debate and putting the motion to the vote. Who's in? Against? If it's okay with you, we can do it together, but we have to have a full consensus here. All right, thanks. You may proceed with the president, and we will vote in the end for everything, a complete proposal. Therefore, for the proposal for a decision of the Mandate Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u956	Okay. The Mandate-Immunity Commission also received a written request for Gordan Maras to put his parliamentary mandate on hold because of the minister's behaviour in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As deputy MP, SDP appointed Vanju Posavac as deputy representative of Gordan Maras. It has been established that all the conditions have been met for the start of the term of office of Mr Gordan Maras and the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office of Vanja Posavac, and we propose unanimously to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the rest of the representative's term of office of Mr Gordan Maras and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative Vanja Posavac. Furthermore, the commission has received a request from representatives of Tihomir Jakovina to put his mandate on hold for acting as minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia. According to the law, the SDP has appointed Damir Rimec as deputy representative of Tihomir Jakovina and the Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Decision on the Peace of Representatives' term of office of Mr Tihomir Jakovina and the start of the conduct of the deputy representative, Damir Rimec. Furthermore, the request by agent Neven Mimica to put his representative's mandate on hold for the conduct of Deputy Prime Minister's post. The SDP has also appointed Ivana Posavec Krivec as deputy representative of Neven Mimica, and the commission proposes to the Croatian Assembly to make a decision on the standstill of MP Neven Mimica and to start acting as deputy deputy representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. Furthermore, MP Rajko Ostojic's request to put his term of office at rest due to the minister's behaviour in the government of the Republic of Croatia. As a substitute, the SDP has appointed Borislav Kovacic as deputy representative. The commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament that a decision be taken on the rest of MP Rajko Ostojić's mandate and the start of acting as deputy representative for Borislav Kovacic. Also, MP Mirela Holy's request to put her representative's seat on the stand due to the minister's behaviour in the government of the Republic of Croatia, and SDP has appointed Dan Speker as deputy representative Mirela Holly and we propose unanimously to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the rest of MP Mirela Holly's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative of Dan Špicer. Then, a request by MP Milanka Opačić to put the mandate on hold for the conduct of the post of vice-president and minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia. The SDP has appointed Sasa Djujic as deputy representative of Milanka Opačić and we propose a decision on the rest of MP Milanka Opačić's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative of Sasa Djujic. The request of Representative Slavko Linic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to put his representative's mandate on hold, and SDP has appointed Josip Bencic as deputy representative of Slavko Linic and we propose to the Croatian Parliament that a decision be taken on the rest of MP Slavko Linic's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative Josip Bencic. Next, the request by Representative Mirand Mrsic for acting as minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia to put his parliamentary mandate on hold, and SDP proposed that Zeljko Mirkovic be deputy representative of Miranda Mrsic, and we propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the rest of MP Slavko Linic's mandate and the start of acting as deputy representative Zeljko Mirkovic. The request of MP Zeljko Jovanovic to put his term of office on hold because of the minister's behaviour in the government of the Republic of Croatia and as a substitute, the SDP appointed Lidija Bagaric as deputy representative Zeljko Jovanovic, and we propose to the Assembly a decision on the rest of the parliamentary mandate of MP Zeljko Jovanovic and the start of acting as deputy deputy MP Lidija Bagaric. The request of Representative Ranko Ostojić to put his term of office in retirement because of the minister's behaviour in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the SDP has appointed Daria Rilja as deputy representative Ranko Ostojić and we propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Decision on the Peace of Representative Ranko Ostojić's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative of Damir Rilja. Then, the request by Agent Ante Kotromanovic to put his mandate on hold for the conduct of the minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and SDP, in exchange, has appointed Ivan Klarin as deputy representative of Ante Kotromanovic, and we propose to the Croatian Parliament to take the decision on the rest of MP Ante Kotromanovic's term of office and to start acting as deputy representative Ivan Klarin. Arsen Bauk's request to put his mandate on hold because of the minister's behaviour in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and as a substitute, the SDP has appointed Mladen Marelic as deputy representative of Arsen Bauk, and we propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the rest of MP Arsen Bauk's term of office and to begin acting as deputy representative of Mladen Marelic. Afterwards, the request by representative Branko Grčić to put his mandate on hold because of the minister's behaviour in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and SDP has appointed Djurdzica PLančić as deputy representative Branko Grčić, and we propose to the Croatian Parliament to take the decision on the rest of MP Branko Grčić's term of office and to begin acting as deputy deputy representative for Djurdice Plancic. Then a request from MP Vesna Pusic to put her mandate on hold for the minister's behaviour in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats has appointed Igor Coleman as deputy representative of Vesna Pusic, and we propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the rest of MP Vesna Pusic's term of office and to begin acting as deputy deputy MP. Then, the request of MP Radir Cacic to put his mandate on hold for acting as Vice-President and Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and HNS Liberal Democrats appointed Dragutin Glavina as deputy representative of Radiir Cacic, and we propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the stilling of the representative's term of office, Radiir Cacic, and to begin acting as deputy representative of Dragutin Glava. Then, the request of MP Ivan Vrdoljak to put his mandate on hold because of the minister's behaviour in the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HNS Liberal Democrats appointed Ivica Mandić as deputy representative of Ivan Vrdoljak, and we propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the rest of MP Ivan Vrdoljak's term of office and to begin acting as deputy representative of Ivica Mandić. Mr. President, this is one package, so I would like to ask that this package be voted out and, for the record, that I did not repeat all of this all of the requirements for rest are with the date of 23 December 2011 and all the beginnings of the replacement of the mandate are also on 23 December 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u957	I thank the president and open the debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the proposals of the mandate-immunity committee. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. I find that the decisions proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission have been unanimously taken. You have more demands, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u958	So, we also discussed this next request or replacement for the elected representative, Josip Fristic, who was put into office yesterday, which we voted on, and his replacement from today's day begins the conduct of the mandate, so I would like to request that we especially vote on it. So, the report on the start of acting as deputy representative of Damir Bajs. The mandate-immunity commission discussed at the 2nd session of the Croatian Peasant Party's notice on the replacement of Representative Josip Fristic from 19 December 2011. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate for Representative Josip Fristic began on 22 December 2011 and the HSS in accordance with Article 12. The law on the election of MPs has appointed Damir Bajs as deputy representative of Josip Fristic, thus fulfilling the law laying down the conditions for the start of acting as deputy representative of Damir Bajs. Following the above-mentioned Mandate-Immunity Commission, it unanimously proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the start of acting as deputy representative of Damir Bajs on 23 December 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u959	Thank you very much, President. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. Then I put to the vote a proposal for an immunity commission now read by Mrs. Sobol, please. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you very much. I can confirm that this decision has been unanimously made. Here's another Mandate-Immunity Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u960	Just that another one, however, that is to be recorded yesterday, we have determined that the terms of office of the current government and in the Decision that we have then made only a reminder of being clear advocates, they will also now be sworn in, we read them yesterday, the mandate begins at the time when the new government's trust is voted, and then I call on Mr. President to swear that when the former members of the government are sworn in with former President Kosor as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u961	Thank you very much to the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we have made our decision and decisions in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, we move on to making an oath. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, after which he or she shall call the representatives by name. A representative when called rises and answers the word I swear. I'll read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will exercise my duties as a representative in the Croatian Parliament knowingly and responsibly, that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will take up all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Mrs. Jadranka Kosor-I swear, Mr. Darko Milinovic-I swear. Thank you. Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic-I swear. Thank you. Mr. Petar Čobanković-I swear, Mr. Domagoj Ivan Milosevic-I swear, Mr. Đuro Popiac-I swear, Mr. Bozidar Kalmeta-I swear, Mr. Branko Bačić-I swear, Mr. Tomislav Karamarko-I swear, Mrs. Martina Dalic-I swear, Mr. Davor Bozinović-I swear, Mr. Davorin Mlakar-I swear, Mr. Jasen Mesić-I swear, Mr. Tomislav Ivić-I swear. Now we'll move on to the deputy's oaths. Mr. Ivan Racan-I swear, Mrs. Vanja Posavac-I swear, Mr. Damir Rimac-I swear, Mrs. Ivana Posavec-Krivec-I swear, Mr. Borislav Kovačić-I swear, Mr. Dan Spicer-I swear, Mr. Saša Djujić-I swear, Mr. Josip Benčić-I swear, Mr. Željko Mirković-I swear, Mrs. Lidija Bagarić-I swear, Mr. Damir Rilje-I swear, Mr. Ivan Klarin-I swear, Mr. Mladen Marelić-I swear, Mr. Djurdica Plančić-I swear, Mr. Igor Coleman-I swear, Mr. Dragutin Ivica Mandić-I swear, Mr. Congratulations to the MPs and MPs on their sworn oath, and I wish them success in carrying out an honorable and responsible representative's duty. ... [[Applause.]] We move to the next item of the agenda, which is 15. The election of the vice-president of the Croatian Parliament In accordance with the inter-party agreement in the 7th term, the Croatian Parliament will have 5 vice-presidents. 3 Vice-Presidents were elected yesterday on a parliamentary majority proposal, today we elect 2 vice-presidents on a parliamentary minority proposal. The opposition parties' agreement will elect the two vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament from the HDZ ranks. The HDZ representative club has tabled a proposal to elect Mrs. Jadranka Kosor and Mr. Vladimir Seks as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament. Would the proposing representatives like to explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. I guess she's not going to be there, so I jumped this one. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal to elect Mrs. Jadranka Kosor as vice-president of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 140 votes, representative Jadranka Kosor has been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations. ... I am voting on the proposal to elect Mr. Representative Vladimir Seks as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] There's been a united debate. That's what you wanted. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 140 votes, MP Vladimir Seks has been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations and I want a lot of success in the work. ... And good co-operation with the parliamentary majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u964	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, distinguished ministers and ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. It is a great honor to stand here on behalf of SDP, HDZ, HNS, IDS, HSU, SDSS and National Minority Representatives' Clubs to present to you the proposals of three decisions that we de facto bring to an end parliamentary work in the process of joining the European Union and which we leave the key decision on membership to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As you know, the European perspective has been in all key documents of Croatia since independence, and in the last 10 years intensive work, sacrifice and vision have brought us to the very threshold of the European Union. This trip was not easy, from war destruction, through the democratic maturation of the state to almost full membership in the European Union. I dare say that the European Union itself was created on the ruins of World War II and I dare say equally that our way to Europe through the negotiation process has helped significantly transform Croatia into a democratic rule of law. This is best seen in some examples from a close past. The European path of Croatia began in 2003 when the government of late Prime Minister Ivica Racan submitted its application for membership in the Union. As you know, Croatia's candidate status was won in 2004, and negotiations began during 2005. Six years later, Croatia successfully concluded them, and Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor and President Ivo Josipovic's signatures on the accession contract led the way to almost the end. Fellow Members and colleagues, today the Republic of Croatia is ready for membership. A large job has been done in areas of adaptation and information and is now a key decision for citizens and citizens. Croatia must answer the simple question: whether you are for membership in the European Union. In order for our citizens to make such a decision, some advances in the Parliament are also needed. That is why you are facing a preliminary decision on the accession of the Republic of Croatia, which we are initiating the process of association with the existing Member States of the European Union and the Proposal for a decision to call a State referendum on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union because, as you know without a decision, citizens have no association or association with other countries in any integration with the transfer of sovereignty. Also, you have before you an amendment to the Declaration on the Fundamental Principles of Full Membership Negotiations because under the current text the referendum should be held within 30 days of the signing of the Accession Treaty. With these amendments, the initial date shall be moved on the date of the previous decision and the date of the referendum shall be moved on 22 January 2012, the date clearly stated in the decision to call the referendum. This way we call on all citizens to respond to the referendum in as large a number as possible because membership in the European Union is not due to the SDP, is not there because of HDZ, HNS or any other political party or individuals. Membership is here because of our fellow citizens and their improvement. It is here because of our young people opening up a whole range of new opportunities, mobility in study, mobility in work, new skills, skills and experience. It is there because of our craftsmen, entrepreneurs and our workers who are opening up the entire European market, it is there and for our units of local self-government that can be built and reborn with the help of European funds. It is there because of our academic community that opens up a whole series of opportunities in science, innovation and it is there because of our farmers who are opening a new system of support, new production models and a huge market. So membership is there for all segments of Croatian society, but we must also clearly say that none of this falls from the sky, that European funds are not a gift or Europe will save us that recently some media have written or Europe will do our job for us. The European Union integration is significantly different from those in which Croatia has participated so far. In the EU, unlike some mergers from our history, we enter prepared as never before and thoroughly informed because in this integration we are the masters of our future and as much as we ourselves will do and as much as our institutions will function will be as good for our citizens. Therefore, using the words of great politician Winston Churchill, I will describe the date of the referendum as the end of the referendum and where the continuation is a long-term process in which Croatia as a full member will have to work even more on many adjustments and reforms. It is also one big job of our new government, the government of Zoran Milanovic. This way, we call on all the representatives' clubs to support this proposal and once again prove that the political consensus on our European future has never been compromised. And for the end, let me just have two things. In light of yesterday's debate in the Assembly on these points, I would like to point out that during the 6th session, this Assembly passed 300 European laws, held several dozen round tables on the subject of the European Union and thematic sessions, and that the first regular session of the 7th called for European topics. I say this because simple mathematics shows that in the past few years at least one European topic has been opened every week where European integration and its content could be discussed. I ask you to take this into account when discussing how many EU lawmakers have been referred to and how much this issue has been discussed. And for the end of this road, I want to thank all the sacrificial people, all the officials, experts and officials who have started and done the work of the negotiations. We congratulate you all once again and thank you for your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u965	Thank you very much. Does Mrs. Jadranka Kosor want to take her word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u966	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Let me begin by congratulating on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club members and members of the new Government, I want success, and I want to be as dedicated as we have done today in the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, our only beautiful country. So I am glad that yesterday in the consultations we agreed that the Croatian Democratic Community Club supported this initiative because we worked hard to conclude the negotiations, as the government that I had been honored to do the job and signed the accession contract. I think that many times, countless times during the negotiations, I would particularly say in the last two and a half years of my government's mandate, we have proved that the state interests, the interests of the Republic of Croatia are absolutely above each individual or overall party interest. We have proven this and I say once again in the past two and a half years that have been extremely difficult, in which we were first engaged in stabilising finance but also in the big and difficult business of deblocking negotiations. Let's just remember it wasn't that long ago. So, the negotiations are ladies and gentlemen, and I think this is the moment I can remind myself of, and I think I have the right to do it on behalf of my party, on behalf of my club. So the negotiations were hopelessly blocked. We have also invested a lot of strength and patience to unblock the negotiations. The agreement with the Republic of Slovenia on the arbitration agreement, so the agreement on how to resolve the issue on the table for 18 years was unresolved and at that moment it seemed hopelessly indecisible we managed to resolve thanks primarily to the construction of bridges and understanding. But thanks to each other's respect and respect. And I would also like to say to this occasion that it would be good for us to resolve all other misunderstandings or open issues with our neighbours as we have managed with the Republic of Slovenia. So, ever since we unblocked the negotiations, there's still a lot of hard work to do. Of course, we didn't have the kind of support we were supposed to have as a government. I'm sorry about that. A lot of things would be simpler and faster to solve. But that's the past now. It's behind us. As long as we're done with the negotiations, we'll sign the contract. So, a lot of hard work. I'll remind you ladies and gentlemen, we're the first country that since '82. Years after Greece's entry, it enters itself individually. We had 35 chapters to negotiate an extremely difficult especially specific chapter 23 regarding the judiciary and fundamental rights. I think that in this particular chapter, that is, by doing business through meeting the criteria for opening and closing this chapter, we have proved that we have a strong state and that we can solve our own problems because we have had to solve a part of this job under the pressure of the severe legacy of bloody aggression on the Republic of Croatia that took place in the 1990s. So, the issue of refugee returns, but certainly the issue of resolving war crimes trials and all others – judicial reform, reform of many processes. And what I want to say now on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, what is important and what is good is that these processes are irrevocable in the best sense and in the best interest of the Republic of Croatia. So twenty threes and eights, chapter 8, related first of all to the resolution of the shipbuilding site, etc. etc. I don't want to pick it up. It would be necessary and necessary to have a very long time to list only all the difficulties we have faced. I also want to thank all members and members of Croatian governments on this occasion and here in the Croatian Parliament, but especially all members and members of the Government since July 2009 for their dedicated and persistent work. We did not stop during last year when a procedure was launched in this House to bring down the government if we had dried up ladies and gentlemen would not be the end of the negotiations. We did not stop in the spring of this year, nor during the facebook protests and various other protests, even when there were very few in both Croatia and the European Union who believed that we could finish this job. And I would also like to mention the fact that we ended negotiations in an unfavourable atmosphere in the European Union itself, which, as you know today, deals with crisis problems, recessions and in this atmosphere that no one has dealt with Croatia in a special way. But I thank my colleagues in both the European Council and the European Commission who have given strong support, who have understood our efforts and who have certainly seen that we are really ready to finish this job. For me personally as Prime Minister and I believe for all of you it was particularly important to be in Brussels on December 9th, it was touchingly impressive. It was a historic moment when we signed an access contract. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club supports these three proposals and amending the declaration and launching the procedure, but certainly by setting the date of the referendum for 22 January. Why? Because the deadlines started to flow. Because we don't have much time. Because the European Council at that first session where I was honored to take part made a decision and entered into the documents that was 1. In July 2013, the date Croatia will become a full 28 member of the European Union, and the Croatian language 24 the official language of the European Union. If we don't leave right now, and I don't think we've really done a huge job, we won't be able to do all these jobs. I mean, of course, the work that is still ahead of us in Croatia, but also in the Member States of the European Union. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club also supports the proposal to hold a referendum where citizens and citizens will finally decide to hold on January 22nd. And on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, on behalf of my party, I call on them to actually come to the referendum in the largest number and of course give their support in order to 1. July 2009. Croatia became the 28th member of the European Union, 2013 well became the 28th member of the European Union. So, full support for these proposals, and I am certainly pleased, i.e. we are pleased that our proposal is also accepted to be held at the first session of the Croatian Parliament after the constitutional deadline permits. So after 15. This January is held on our proposal and a comprehensive debate on Croatia's accession to the European Union, on what this entry brings us. And I believe that this meeting on the very day of the referendum will be an additional incentive for citizens to come out and round up. Because I believe, since we have been elected by citizens and citizens and that we represent the Croatian people and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that our unity around this historic goal will give an incentive to many to go to the polls and circle for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u967	Thank you very much to the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Jadranki Kosor. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Please, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mr. Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u968	Dear colleagues and colleagues, my thanks on behalf of the current Government of the Republic of Croatia to all who have worked on this difficult job. Not congratulations, but thanks. It's a job that's been well done, that's been hard and hard, and I'm going to look back on that, too, in the end. Yesterday we had a good meeting where we agreed very quickly on important things, we accepted the HDZ proposal that after 15 January, in the first regular session of the Parliament here, the debate on Croatia and the European Union, not the first, but perhaps the last, at an important moment just before the referendum on 22 January, which is the date on which we agree. Not all of them. And I'm going to say the same thing, because I don't want anyone here to remain isolated and feel isolated and out of place. The theme is too important. That's an easy deal, and that's how it's gonna be. It's not an activation, it's our political program. The pool of percentages that the parties in this House receive among voters is actually greater than the collection or percentage that the European Union receives in the polls. We need to work on that a little bit more. So people are part of Croatian citizens for a reason skeptical and reserved. And we have to respect that. Why January 22nd? Not everyone agrees with that date. Let's go this way, so according to the existing declaration, according to the current declaration we voted together on the government's proposal, but we all supported it, so our current date of the referendum should be before 9 January, so 30 days from the date of the signing of the accession agreement. That's impossible. It's even legally impossible, because it's not enough days from a call to a referendum. That's what we're moving, that's what we all agree on. We're all for the European Union. How much are we moving? Is it three weeks as good as we think it is, or three months or four months? We think it's good for three weeks and we can explain what's important to people in those three weeks. Three months? It's possible, but then we can do three years. My experience with the European Union shows that it is a body that is constantly changing, which is substantially changing, and which is actually difficult to fully understand and understand. Of course, I am not saying this to avoid enthusiasm for the European Union, but to say how complex this is. In 4 months, the European Union will probably be slightly different than it is now, regardless of the Croatian Accession Treaty which will not change, but some, some, measure, some criteria of membership in the European Union want to change and constantly change, and here we come to a referendum issue, which is also part of the joint proposal, and it is very simple and it says whether you are for the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. Point. For or against. That's correct, but still someone can make a complaint about it. It can, for example, make an objection that it would be more correct to write whether you are for the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union under the terms and criteria of the accession agreement or whether you are generally for membership in the European Union as we know it, we understand and see it now. Or are you in, do you agree with chapters 17, 18 to 30 and someone? And that could be one of the possible and imaginary questions, but we think this is the correct thing to do, that this is the correct thing to do. Why? Because it's a millennium question for Croatia. It's simply a choice of path, the final path of this generation of people. The contract is negotiated, some of us have read it, which is due to interest, which is due to profession, passion, some are not and it is not a shame, it is a great text, it is never fully understood, it is complex mechanisms, but it is a key question after 10 years whether we want Croatia to be a member of this supranational, supranational formation that will largely determine our lives. And our opinion is that we should. If we wait more than three weeks, so as far as we're proposing to move, we put ourselves at risk of running some deadlines without explaining anything to ourselves or to the citizens. So on February 15th and 22nd, there is no significant difference, and it is important that we start with the end of our work, with this beginning of the end, as Mondekar said, that even those who have received some deadline for Croatia to become a member of the European Union leave enough room for their work. That deadline was set in the European Council on 1 July 2013, it is a clear deadline, but in nature things are not ultimate because it depends on us. He's more instructive. We can also question it by our actions or by our inaction, and therefore we think it is good. The lack of the Law on Referendum is facts, and it is not entirely our honor. Perhaps we should have changed that before, but based on existing rules and in conversation with experts and committee, we conclude and conclude that such a referendum, if everything was prepared in the next few weeks, would have been as legal and legitimate as these last parliamentary elections, which no one had disputed from that base. The parliamentary elections have not been held in the perfect regulatory atmosphere and ambience, as well as the voters' lists, and too many voters by election units, so it is all a basis for one to dispute, but the general will of the political people is clear and in parliamentary elections is more or less clear and there is no reason not to be in the referendum. Therefore, I call on all of us to support this important Croatian story, to bring it to an end, to the end of a big start, to call on the parties that are accordingly, but only on this basis and on this side are reserved, and are essentially for the European Union to do so, and I believe that these parties here in the Parliament will also discuss here on January 16th or 17th next year with a favorite, so for the European Union, for the success of the referendum. And finally, I know and I'm aware that the burden of this kind of government and administration is difficult, and that sometimes you seem to encounter a lot of obstructions and plantings. I assure you, Mrs. Kosor, dear colleagues, that these were not our intentions and that we have always acted in these matters in the best way, and when you say that we have obstructed, or that we have not helped unblock the negotiations, that's not how I see it. Something else we've been looking for, and that's the end of this story, this end of the beginning, when the arbitration agreement was negotiated, then I personally insisted on a full clarification of that contract that was in such a condition, the categorical condition for the closure of the blockade, sign and the blockade goes away. And that happened in the end. However, the reserves I made at the time, and what I had on my own request talked to the President of the European Commission, and before me were some of your closest associates that same day, you know what they were, was just to clarify one provision of an arbitration agreement on the list of arbitration tribunals, on a list of arbitarians to be proposed by the President of the European Commission on a proposal from the Commissioner in charge of enlargement. In fact, I didn't get the exact answer, and I saw in it a potential collapse. Today, on December 23rd, 14 days have passed since the signing of the accession treaty, and 9.12 are due to begin deadlines for arbitration, so the list of arbitration tribunals should be completed. It's not over, and since that meeting, it's been more than two years. And it was my dilemma, I've got it now. That's the first thing we have to solve together. You and we with our ties because it is about respecting the contract Croatia signed in good faith and in this good faith those who need to implement it we continue to believe, but we will have to make sure of it. Well, that's what I was going to say for the end. If you saw it as a blockade and as an obstruction of my intentions, it was like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u969	Thank you very much to Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the clubs we have registered three representatives of the club, Croatian Labourists Mr Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u970	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. Unlike some truly EU topics, it often requires, deserves, deserves the words of great gratitude and speech, but I believe that the most ideal moment of thanks and praise in Croatia will follow the referendum because it is true that Croatia has achieved a high degree of inter-party political consensus on the EU project, and whether we will succeed, this consensus will also be achieved with the citizens of this country. A Millennium project yesterday at a working meeting of parties is indeed said to be now a Millennium project for the future of the country indeed is. We're deciding three papers today. The declaration for the third time since the Croatian Parliament first adopted a Declaration on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU in 2005. Some who were not presently in the Assembly cannot remember those nights and days when she was writing and composing, but it was important that all the parties in Parliament signed that declaration on that day because it was necessary for the Prime Minister to travel to Bruxelles the next day. One of the most important documents of the moment, and in it was agreed by all parties in Parliament that the negotiations would end, the referendum would be called before the contract was signed. A unanimous decision in the Croatian Parliament, if I recall correctly. In 2010, it was said that it was not good and that first we had to sign the contract and then call a referendum. As much as we tried to warn ourselves that the 30-day agreement will not be implemented due to the expected elections in Croatia, and those who voted against the amendment were declared Eurosceptics. Now again, the Croatian Parliament and that provision must change the declaration. And now I wonder if the proposings are Eurosceptics? Of course not, because respect for the Constitution and the legal deadlines is more important than the Millennium project. So now we have to change this declaration and comply with the legal provisions it has. The second document is the previous decision on Croatia's EU accession. And as far as the Croatian Labourists are concerned, we have no objection. We will support the amendment of the declaration, we will support this previous decision on the procedure. However, as regards the third document that we are deciding and discussing today, this is the decision to call a referendum. We do not have a question or a referendum issue, and I think it is very well done, very clearly, briefly, everyone understandably, and I do not see any need to further spread the complexity or cause any dilemma in the referendum issue. We don't have a problem with that either. And if it was just one decision and they'd back it up. The problem is January 22, 2012. So, the date of the referendum. I asked the question last night whether we are sure that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are sufficiently informed about the EU, the content of the accession treaty, the content of the negotiated chapters, but not only in the context of information, but what is far more important to us to achieve as much response to the elections as possible. The truth in the package of preparations for Croatia's entry into the EU was also changed by the Constitution in the part that speaks about the validity of the referendum and abolished the provision that it is valid if the turnout is greater than 50%. However, politicians should aim to achieve greater than 50% of the turnout regardless of whether the constitution or the law requires it. Following this general agreement with the largest number of citizens in the election will be the crown of success for all those who have negotiated and brought Croatia into the EU from the first to the last day. Wouldn't we all feel bitter if the turnout at the referendum was 30% because we could say that it was the citizens of this country's project if the turnout was 30%. For us in the Croatian Labourists, it is the goal, not that President Josipovic wanted the decision to be 70%, but that the turnout to the referendum was 70%, and it is not important for the prominence, percentage or 10% more votes to make a decision to join the European Union or not. The more citizens participate in the decision-making process, the more citizens will feel this as their project, with their voice making and making their contribution, and all those problems that arise on that path and after entering the European Union will understand and understand. They say and that's what my colleague Milanovic, Mr. Prime Minister, has repeated, we don't have time. On February 12th, there was a proposal for a referendum, which is three weeks later than the proposed deadline, whether it was really three weeks of time for citizens is so fateful, so irrelevant that we do not want to give it to them from 2,000 days to more expensive. I will not now open the dilemma whether the complete state and public administration in Croatia is prepared enough to join the European Union, whether the Croatian economy is prepared enough because I hope it will be one of the main tasks of the new government to prepare this as much as possible by 7 months 2013. We supported the idea of having a quality, thematic and good debate in January on how to contribute as much citizens respond to the referendum as possible. But if Croatia has no alternative but the European Union then I ask whether the European Union will 1. Seven. In 2013, be who it is today. What happens to the Euro Zone then, Schengen? Whether two concepts of the future of the European Union would be one that would make the United States of Europe and the other are fighting to preserve most of the national sovereignty, so that Europe will look about the same as it is today. Or God forbid what if Europe snaps in the meantime, if we have no alternative what that would mean for Croatia, we have no alternative either. Not in such a dictionary, not in this way attract people to participate in the decision - making process. And I will conclude the following, quite clearly Croatian Labourists will support the decisions on the amendment of the Declaration, decisions on the previous procedure, we will do everything and invite citizens to participate in the process of formation, all organisations of employers' unions and civil society to be active in this area and we will suggest that they vote for Croatia's entry into the European Union but we will not support the referendum decision because there has been no minimum effort to reach a compromise on February 12th and we believe that these three weeks dedicated to citizens deserve it to get greater quality, greater security and instead of the debates in Croatia emotionally when you ask someone whether they are for or against Europe, everyone knows whether they are for or against, no one knows why. These are our reasons for abstention at the time, the date of the referendum. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u971	Thank you very much. He's got a word on behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Damir Cain. Well, he's not the only one in the House long enough. You've been in the Parliament long enough to let the gentleman speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u972	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Europe, yes or no. Yes, as soon as possible. I think 22. 1. be that date, based on this Declaration that we have now, that date was supposed to be 8 January, it was inexecutable, it was in one word incontrovertible. I am pleased that last night the consensus continued, that he had spilled himself today, if I may say so in this House, no one should be excluded, no need to exclude the Government of Ivica Racan, no need to exclude the Government or Ivo Sanader, no need to exclude Mrs. Kosor's government, no one should rule out the President of the Republic of Mr. Mesic or the current President of Mr. Josipovic, I think that whoever was at the moment I think it was unique and so much I want to believe that we will soon end this process under the new government. The second thing I want to say in the '90s, everyone I know was for the European Union. Today, at least half of those who were held back at the very least. I command them that ye sin, but in our land every one of us has the right to sin in the same way. To say today in 2011 that the mood when it comes to the European Union was the same as it was in 1991, as it should also be said that the Constitution has not changed in part that enough to join the European Union is the common majority for a positive decision on the accession of the European Union, so I do not think that this referendum would have passed. And I think that in that part of the HDZ government is bravely proposing something that is, I won't say at the border of constitutionality, which may have been difficult to support but if it was their fault I voted for it, so it's also my fault, but I don't think it was wrong. I do not believe, gentlemen, that today in this referendum that will be held within a month of the circus, we could get 2 million 250 thousand citizens on their side, in these elections, parliamentary elections, and these are always parliamentary elections of all elections, 2.7 million citizens, and now of those 2.7 million citizens, 2 million 250 grand would be for, so that would be a real win or Bing somewhere on the lot. Now, should we support a Europe that is as possible as Lesar said not to survive the people's decade. I personally think so. I won't talk too much about Croatia now, but I will speak more in Istria. I still think the citizens of Istria before the others in Croatia should be in favour. And why am I saying that? Because perhaps the mood below which Europe needs perhaps is different from in some other parts of the Republic of Croatia. I can and understand when citizens say about us are against, we have small companies today, competition tomorrow will be ruthless. Maybe it's better for us to, say, stay out of that association. These people need to be understood. It is good that under Europe there will continue to be control over the fight against some corruption, human rights surveillance. But many down there today question what will happen to shipbuilding. I can even talk about it in public. I remember when Gian Carlo Zupić was mayor of Pula, Stevo Žufić Mayor, Damir Caine when we de facto wrote off claims at the height of the city's Pula budget. Today if we did, we'd all be in jail. But at that point, it helped one such system simply stabilise, to save not three but five thousand people in jobs, to export $500 million a year, to have 5% of Croatian exports. Why am I talking gentlemen about Croatian shipbuilding? I've been saying that for three or four days because the problems are such that the question of what's just going to happen tomorrow. Since '97. until 2011. We have approved 35 billion kuna guarantees for shipbuilding. Only Split, only Rijeka Shipyard from 2008 to 2011 The state from the budget serviced loans worth 2.7 billion kuna. This year, 2011. 11.3 billion kuna shipbuilding obligations have been turned into public debt. So in 17 years, we've delivered ships for 40 billion kunas as much as we've spent on the recovery itself. People are asking what's going to happen to us in due time with a branch that's almost out of order at the moment. I'm personally afraid of what might happen to Ulysses in 2013. The years that he's successfully done for 11 or 12 years. Agriculture O.K. I guess that's where it's going to profit, but that's the amount of money that's been said about in the first few years, it's hard for me to believe that. However, as much as it is worth warning about all aspects of entry, because after the referendum there is no clear repair, I think it is, and I will talk about Istria where today's mood is important differently than 10 or 20 years ago worth being for. And why is it worth it? Let us release these phrases, the values you live are the same as in Europe, more money is managed to get out of Brussels, Strasbourg than from official Zagreb. It is clear that the one who gives money from Europe today is asking that of his companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u973	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u974	They build individual facilities for which they finance, etc. It is also clear that Europe has received a great deal from Croatia. It is enough to mention the banking system, enough to mention the acquisition of telecommunications that we have granted to Germans, INAs to Hungarians, etc., etc. Why do we need Europe? We need it primarily for export purposes, for tourism, for investment, for funds, for cross-border cooperation. How will this or how will inter-border cooperation be between Slovenia and Croatia? We'll see about that. As for the arbitration agreement itself that the former prime minister spoke of, I'm afraid we'll pass as barefoot, but the decision should be respected without any reservations because we simply made our declarations or our signatures or I don't know the resolutions. I want to believe that in Europe, they'll get rid of the crisis. With Europe, I want to believe that Croatia will come out of the recession in some way. 30 days ago, the bank almost had no money, today they're offering again after that pre-accession money negotiations, so there's money again. Croatia has 4.3 million inhabitants, Europe over 500 million people. So it shouldn't be difficult for Europe to whisper about one of its larger cities, but I have the impression that Mrs. Merkel will no longer pat anyone else and that's why I am giving her absolute right. It is clear that we will be for the EU, clearly calling on citizens to vote for the EU. I want to believe that those who work will profit, and those who are on syncure I don't think they will, and finally that's fair. Let them all live on their work. It'll be for one, it'll be for the other, but I really want to believe that at this point, one "million-dollar" project is worth supporting.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u975	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, please take the word from Mr. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u976	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that we are all together aware of the fateful and proud importance of the documents that are before us today. In recent years, the Republic of Croatia has had the privilege of making a lot of efforts to overcome many obstacles to the status we have today. Negotiations with the EU have been completed and this should be congratulated. But the problem is, little does anyone know what we're negotiating. We and all Croatian citizens are now asked to go to the polls for a full month and vote for something without even knowing what it is. Will Croatia's entry into the EU really benefit Croatian citizens and improve? Why is he hiding what we gain and what we may lose in the EU? There is no doubt in Croatia a significant number of citizens who support the entry into the European Union, but it is equally undeniable that there is also a significant number of those who are wondering whether or not to be, and the number of these citizens is not negligible and is not small. All who wonder have the right to know the answers to these questions, for the truth cannot and must not be exclusively available to one and to others inaccessible. Croatia's history is filled with tragic consequences, hasty and under-thinking decisions by Croatian political elites. Questions that are plagued by not a small number of Croatian citizens, to which no one gives answers because they are numerous, and I will now only ask some. It also refers to the unknowns about what the Republic of Croatia negotiated with the European Union during the pre-accession negotiations, but also what it means for the Republic of Croatia to apply the provisions of the Constitution of the European Union, etc. The Lisbon Treaty. In addition to a very small number of people within the Croatian political elite, the number of Croatian citizens and even representatives in the Croatian Parliament who know what the Lisbon Treaty says and what consequences for Croatia the application of the provisions of the contract can have. That is why, on behalf of the HDSSB club, we are asking today's proposings to answer the following questions. Is it true that Croatia loses important elements of statehood by entering the European Union, which the Lisbon Treaty brings to the Croatian people. Is it true that this contract that the European Union has received the elements of a Member State loses important parts of its state sovereignty and becomes an autonomous province within the new European mega-state of half a billion citizens? If this document makes Europe, which is a country with its external borders, single money, a single market and supreme legislative and political authority over clearly defined territory, whether Croatia's entry into the European Union is losing attributes of an independent state and becoming one of the smaller provinces within the vast multinational state. Secondly, is it true that Croatia is losing its independence by entering the European Union. The key difference between states that are independent and administrative provinces is that independent states are sovereignly ruling their territory and their external borders until the administrative provinces have no sovereign right. At the very beginning of the Lisbon Treaty, I will remind you of Article 3. The European Union is defined as a political state, I quote: without internal borders guaranteeing the free movement of individuals, which means that all persons within its borders can move and settle uninterrupted and without verification in any Member State. In this way, the Republic of Croatia will lose control of its current external borders, and our external borders will become internal administrative borders, and they will eventually disappear. By losing control of its external borders, Croatia will lose one of the most important components of its sovereignty and its statehood. Does this not mean that we, the Republic of Croatia, will become a common province from a sovereign and independent state and a small one within the vast European mega-state? In this way, the European Union takes over the most important elements of statehood from its internal provinces. The sovereign state has all attributes of sovereignty and clearly defined external borders and clearly defined state area and clearly defined population, legislative, executive and judicial authority, including its own armed forces, own money and the ability to manage and apply authorities. Those countries which do not have exclusive and supreme authority in their territory but are subject to other states' or foreign authorities' rights from an international point of view are not de facto nor legally sovereign. That Croatia did not have the attributes of a sovereign state, its external border, its state territory, its armed forces, its executive and legislative power could not even be recognised as a sovereign state under the criteria... The commission. [[You don't understand.]] Third, what will happen to the Croatian people in this European megastate. Taking into account the fact that the total number of Croats in the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina is around 5 million, and that the EU population has reached half a billion is clear that Croats in their future country will account for less than 1% of the total population of the European Union. With that in mind, is it not possible to say that the long-term fate of the Croatian people in the European Union can even be seen as worrying. Fourthly, how to comment on Article 17.b of the Lisbon Treaty, which reads: Citizens of the Union will have the right to move freely and to live freely in the territory of Member States and to vote and to be candidates in the European Parliament elections and local elections in Member States where they live under the same conditions as nationals of that country. Does this mean that, according to this article, citizens of other European Union countries who come to live in the Republic of Croatia will be granted automatic rights as well as the domestic Croatian population. If that is the case, it can be concluded that in this way, foreign citizens from Croatia, the richer countries of the European Union, who have moved to Croatia, will have far greater economic power and then political rights that will allow them to take over local government in those environments where they wish to. The difference in purchasing power between Croatian citizens and citizens from other significantly richer European Union countries is now huge. With the entry into the European Union, the difference in purchasing power will be even greater, so the delay in selling real estate to foreigners by 7 or 10 years does not bring anything to the Croatian people anyway, because most Croats have already been so poored that it is expected that we could easily become aliens on our own hearth. The fifth question, how to comment on the growing fear of the threatening political subordination of Croatia in the future European Union. So far, all major decisions within the important bodies of the European Union such as the Council of Ministers have been taken by consensus, which means that for the validity of a decision, each of the 27 Member States of the present Member States had to give their consent. In this way, each member could block those decisions that she considered harmful to her own interest. But is it true that the Lisbon Treaty also lays down new rules for decision-making in the future for individual, especially small members and peoples to be unprotected? Is it true that, pursuant to Article 9c of the Lisbon Treaty, the Council of Ministers' decision of 1 November 2014 will be made by a majority of only 55%, provided that these 55% include at least 15 of the 27 members and 65% of the total population of the Union. Is this not even just a transitional phase, or is it not according to the Declaration on Article 9c as an add-on to the Lisbon Treaty of 1 April 2017, that it is envisaged that a qualified majority will no longer need a consensus but that votes of 55% of the population or 55% of the member of the Union will be sufficient. If only 6 of the largest members of the European Union are Germany, France, England, Italy, Spain and Poland account for 70% of the total population of the European Union, and the other 21 members are only 30% of the total population, then this would mean that no decision can be taken without the will of the ruling six. Is this correct, gentlemen? If it does not mean that in this way small peoples, and in this way our Croatian people, will not in practice have almost no political power, if it is so quite a danger that great nations rule small nations. If all of this is not true tell us and resolve the doubts and fears about it, but if that is true then let's say it to the Croatian citizens and let them decide with all this knowledge that they will vote in the referendum. Let Croatian citizens decide, not just political elites. And the sixth question. Agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy of the entire Republic of Croatia, especially Slavonia and Baranja, and there are many issues that our farmers are struggling with. Here's just some. In principle, the country's common agricultural policy with smaller GDP has fewer incentives. For example, the premium for farmers in the Netherlands is 469 euros per hectare and for farmers in Latvia 83 euros. Where is the Republic of Croatia in this regard? Furthermore, it is said that only peasants in the VAT system will have the right to incentives, and those are very few in us. Most farmers are not in the VAT system because they do not have enough income to be able to allocate 1700 kuna per month for pension and health insurance. If, therefore, the danger that some 100,000 peasants in Croatia will not be in a position to get any incentives, which would mean their likely and certain collapse. If this is added that as owners of the country have no right to social assistance, the question arises, so how and what will those families live on in the first place. The fact is that, upon entering the European Union, the market for economically weak members will be flooded with product of questionable quality and economic strength. This could also be a real threat to the total destruction of domestic production of small farmers and entrepreneurs. Finally, since the rise in unemployment and an even greater drop in purchasing power for citizens of weaker members. It's final. These were just some of the issues that bother a large number of Croatian citizens and they deserve answers to these questions, as they are Croatian citizens no less valuable than those who do not ask questions. It is absurd to ask questions equalise with Euroscepticism, and even worse is people who rightly ask questions to treat them as less valuable people. That's why the other day Professor Nenad Zakushek said, "It's fair to say that Eurosceptics are uninformed and leftover or right-handedly blinded people." Paraphrasing the famous Croatian politician Stjepan Radic, said on 24 November 1918, "Lords are not too late yet, don't gush like geese in fog!" Now the new president of the Croatian government, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, said the other day and today that we are not like geese but as an airbus in the fog. It sounds hot, but the fog is fog, and what usually pours behind it is at least discomfort and a certain amount of fear. We are not plagued by fog, nor by what is in the fog, but by what is not seen by this fog, and by what is behind it. And taught by the experience that brought the fog from the message of Stjepan Radić to the Croatian people we have the right to fear this fog and fly through it geese or airbuses. Another old folk wisdom says it's not just about flying, it's about flying. The HDSSB is a regional, national, pro-European and democratic party. It is clear from these features that we are not against the European Union but our European focus is on a more appropriate and transparent approach to the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. But it is precisely from the fact that we are both regional and Croatian national parties of democratic principles that we also believe that these doubts that the Croatian citizens have to talk about and get answers to questions asked before any of the Croatian citizens ask for an indication in the referendum whether or not they are for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union. And where else to ask these questions first, but here in the Croatian Parliament. This decision is too important for the Croatian state and Croatian citizens. Fateful not only for our generation but also for our children and children of our children, so that these questions remain unanswered especially when it is known that it was also quite unreasonable to make a decision to amend the Law on Referendum, which makes such a fateful decision for the entire Croatian state and the Croatian people can be made by the will of not most citizens, but by the will of the majority only of the citizens to the referendum, even if only three. The fact that only 12 out of 763 members of the European Parliament will be sitting in the European Parliament after Croatia's entry into the European Union, therefore only 12 out of 763 speak for themselves. We in HDSSB have confidence in Croatian citizens and we believe that they will choose what is best for themselves, but also for the entire Republic of Croatia. Therefore, there is no need to fear the fate of Croatia in the hands of those to whom it really belongs – all Croatian citizens are already on the contrary. Finally, the HDSSB Club is against the referendum on 22 January 2012. We think it's best to postpone the referendum by six months, but the minimum we can agree to is a three-month delay. Without delay for at least 3 months and until we get answers to all the concerns or unknowns that clearly exist, but it does not want to speak openly and honestly to its own people because they do not want to open up unpleasant topics all the way to the HDSB club can neither support the proposed amendments to the Declaration on the fundamental principles of negotiations for full membership nor the previous decision on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. If these proposals and requests are not accepted, the HDSB club will remain restrained on this issue regarding both proposals. I hope that our debate in January next year will raise many more questions and that we will not only open questions but also give answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u977	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go. And let me let you know, there are six more individual registered speakers.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u978	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I know it's more or less familiar, there are clear views on this subject. But it's a very important decision, and it's an even more important topic, so let me say something about it. The European Union is the second major consensus that has occurred in Croatia and thanks to this consensus that has actually happened, we have managed so successfully to pass this long and very complicated, unique path. The Republic of Croatia has had a unique path towards the European Union and, of course, it must always be conventionally and protocolly reiterated its thanks to all those involved and contributed to this. Therefore, all the governments of the Republic of Croatia from signing the Stabilisation and Association Treaty until the signing of the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. But it might be unfair not to mention here the role of the Croatian Parliament, the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations, which is also unique. The Committee acted on the basis of, therefore, a political consensus and on that committee each party's representative had the right to veto. And despite such very strict and very unusual rules of operation, this committee has made a great contribution. And it is therefore necessary to mention here the president of this Committee, Mr Ivica Racan, the chairman of the Committee for a short period of time, Mr Zoran Milanovic, and especially Mrs Vesna Pusic, who was the chairman of the Committee at the time of the most active part of the negotiations with the European Union. I'm not going to go into procedural matters here because things are pretty clear. I think all these procedures and communication strategies of the government and 300 laws in the Parliament, 20 public debates, 12 reports and 12 plus 12. There have been reports of both the Government and the National Committee. 24 reports over the last 6 years have been sufficient to know what the European Union is, and it has always been a sense of vision, it is of course knowledge and it is very, very complicated and great knowledge, but it is always at the time of its establishment and day today and at the time of its crises was a feeling and vision, and not a thousand questions to which you would get answers would not be... Because he can't rest just on his knowledge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the European Union has had very concrete achievements. The postwar recovery of Europe in 20 years, and this very quickly is certainly due and... First of all, the European Coal and Steel Community, and then the European Community, and then the European Union after that, are very concrete achievements and not only on the vision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that integration has shown that complicated political, yet successful political structures are being built, it has had a stalemate, it has had a lot of difficulties, especially in the political, security and defence areas, but it has never stood, it has always prepared for further, and always the next step has always been a step more and the European Union is therefore certainly also in some way an example of how complicated political problems are being solved, and how successful political structures are being built. From the very beginning, the CNS has therefore been very clear beyond each political, daily political account, supporting and participating and giving its contribution and, therefore, in the expectation of a successful referendum, in the expectation of gaining the ability of this state, this Parliament, this government and all institutions to take advantage of these potentials that the European Union gives, in the expectation of a third Croatian consensus on a strategic issue that will not be as high, of high importance as these first two Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party support these decisions and calls on citizens to come to a referendum in their highest interest and vote on Croatia's accession to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u979	Thank you very much. An individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u980	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr Minister, Minister, fellow Members and colleagues. At the very beginning when the former prime minister spoke about the European Union, I was surprised that she did not mention one fact that she signed a referendum agreement with the unions in that citizens' referendum on 200,000 votes and took the obligation to warn this government, the government of Zoran Milanovic, at that time did not know that the government would be, but the future government would implement what they had promised the unions. So now I'm asking Mrs. Kosor or someone from HDZ if she can answer Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic as well. What is the purpose of joining the European Union, for Croatian citizens to live better, and for who to decide to join the European Union. Croatian citizens will decide. Now the question is, what are they going to decide on? On the basis of which Croatian citizens will decide whether Croatia really needs to join the European Union. Probably based on their own experience of living very badly in Croatia. On the basis of the fact that Croatia is not ruled by law, but by a stronger right, based on the fact that an increasing number of citizens are digging through containers. It will vote in favour of entering the European Union out of despair and the assumption that a series of rights, jobs, food, some miracle in Croatia will come from that side of the border. There is one example of a dozen journalists, one from Croatia and the other from countries that are not in the European Union, were on one lesson a few months ago in Zagreb, then they went to Luxembourg. First, the Zagreb lecturers taught them what the European Union means for a country that will soon become a member of the European Union, all lecturers except for Mr. former Secretary of State Plenkovic were actually apologists, only he spoke to both sides about the advantages and weaknesses. When they came to Luxembourg all they heard, they heard about the shortcomings of the European Union. This does not mean that they are Eurosceptics in the European Union, but only means that they are speaking realistically about the European Union. How we prepare Croatian citizens to make a decision. Earlier in the debate, I heard that in Croatia everyone knows what brings the European Union to ordinary citizens, 90% of citizens, perhaps I said too little, does not know what awaits them in the European Union. For 10 years, the European Union has been spoken of by political elites, no one informs citizens, I myself have proposed several projects on, in various media to produce different emissions, let's say on Croatian television about what the European Union is, not apologetically, unprofessionally done videos, but precisely good information about the European Union. But it's not accepted. What I personally advocate and what Croatian Labourers, who are not Eurosceptics, are already skeptics according to the way Croatia prepares to decide on the European Union, to postpone a referendum on the environment, only until the middle means the month of February. Nothing else. I don't think that you can scare us by the deadlines that we have until a year and a half after the referendum that all countries ratify the agreement, I think that we here in the Croatian Parliament are obliged to pay attention to citizens, we are obliged to those who will enjoy or not enjoy the European Union's rights and shortcomings of the European Union, to know what awaits them and to have tools to decide whether or not to join the European Union. We are Croatian Labourists – A Party of Labour, a party that will support the entry into the European Union, which will explain why we should go, but certainly we ourselves are too weak and too little time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u981	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u982	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would correct Mr. Vuksic's incorrect claim. Namely, Mrs Jadranka Kosor did not take the obligation to call a referendum, signing an agreement with the unions, but the agreement was signed by the Prime Minister who was the Prime Minister at the time. Whether the referendum will be called now, whether the current Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic, will implement the agreement, whether to call on the unions and agree with them in a different way to organise the referendum, is now in the power of the current Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u983	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, our representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u984	Thank you, Mr. President. I will shorten this debate because the debate will take place on 18 January, so 4 days before the EU referendum and I will repeat the HDZ's request to request a postponement of the referendum. We are not against the EU, but we believe that this is an extremely short time for all Croatian citizens to meet Quo vadis Croatia or Croatia – where Croatia is going. These are just some of the laws, i.e. some of the inscriptions that perhaps far smarter people have drawn up, written that it is coming out of the EU, the procedure is not simple at all. The EU acquis cannot be studied for two lives. A common agricultural policy of inequality. The EU is expensive, pay attention to the order of the flags. A guide through European democracy, a demonstration of myths about EU democratic legitimacy. Differences in legal culture. Spectacular agricultural injustice, etc., etc. Here is also an indication of the mood of Croatian voters in the spring of 2011 only 30% of citizens are for the EU. It may also have changed the Law on a referendum where indeed the legal and formal three citizens will be able to drag Croatia into a new association. That's why the referendum law was amended. Is the EU a sacred historical goal of Croatian citizens or the selfish interest of Croatian oligarchy eager for comfortable Brussels chairs? It is also a question to which this Croatian Parliament should answer. I don't know if the marble was 1918 when Croatia first went to an association, then Balkan, to the dungeon of the Croatian people. '45. The Croatian Parliament couldn't even influence that. But I hope that this is what Croatian citizens listen to who do not have a job at the moment, let alone the Internet where they could look at what our very successful under quotes "negotiation team" managed to negotiate. Croatian politics, and let's just remember how we came to sovereignty and independence with a bloody war, the Croatian policy that has been led all these 20 years has led to the fact that the EU is the only way out for a desolated, robbed, robbed Republic of Croatia. Croatia currently has almost 300 thousand unemployed. It is therefore a legitimate request to postpone the referendum by 3 months. Here, an icon of the anti-communist dissident, a symbol of the rebirth of democracy in Eastern Europe, a former Czech president and writer Vaclav Havel who died Sunday morning at 75. Among other things, he published 10 points in 2005. Well, here's all those who don't understand, I'll read it very soon. In point 1, and he published 10 points against the EU where he expressed his concerns about where the Czech Republic is going, and our intention, especially in the HDZB, is not to pass as Hungary that no longer has its own agricultural land anymore, to pass through as Romania and pass through as these countries of the eastern bloc because we have never been in that eastern bloc and we do not want to carry out a particularly similar state as it is now. Where exactly the EU's founders have a far better position in the EU itself. The European Union, therefore, means Vaclav Havel, will become a state and will have all the basic features of a country. He will have his constitution, his citizens, his territory, his external borders, his currency, his president, his foreign minister, his flag, his anthem, his state holiday. In this newly created state, the current Member State will be a common region or province. The Constitution of the EU state will be governed by the constitution of the member states. Even the overall legal order of the EU will be governed by the legal order of the member states. The term constitutional contract as such is imprecise and only temporary. This document will be a contract between sovereign states only until the agreement is confirmed in the Member States then the document will become the real Constitution. The notion of common sovereignty that has so far been prevailing in today's old EU has been abandoned and a new pan-European sovereignty has been created instead. Countries in the new EU are losing their exclusive right to create their own laws so far. It is visible in this Croatian Parliament. Citizens of separate countries will become citizens of the EU state with direct rights and obligations of this European state. The European Union, not the Member States, will conclude international agreements with other countries. The importance of smaller member states, which means the Republic of the Czech Republic itself, is being reduced by voting procedures compared to the current situation resulting from the contract. Even in decision-making areas where Member States will retain the right to veto in the future, these decisions may be subject to the majority vote at any time. I think that's smart enough. So what we want to do is open the debate and give time to Croatian citizens who are more on their minds today and those in Sisak, Željezara in Herbos, those in Đakov, those who were fired in Đakovština, those workers from KIO. Those who care more about jobs, kilos of bread and liters of milk, but to allow that in Croatia, especially in this House, because this House has not debated the European Union so far, probably did not discuss Yugoslavia in 1918, so we ended up the way we ended up. We are not against the European Union, but we are looking for a broad debate and a postponement of the referendum, for a minimum of three months, for Croatia to lose nothing, and for Croatia to gain much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u985	Thank you. Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u986	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The issue of Croatia's accession to the European Union is primarily related to Croatian national interests. We think that these are two inseparable issues, therefore, whether Croatian national interests are defined during the accession process at all or are only the accession of Croatia's national interest. The HDZ's previous government and current SDPs also defined the entry into the European Union as Croatian national interest. So we believe that the Croatian national interest can be the geostrategic position of the Republic of Croatia, that it can be its energy independence, the protection of vital resources, water, land, air, sea, strengthening the economy of the protection of agriculture, and other topics. If these criteria are met in the accession process of the European Union, then national interests will be met. Negotiations themselves have been conducted from the beginning in a way that only meet the criteria at any cost and in any way. So, about that, we have homework, we have to change 27 laws, we have to abolish 10 courts, we have to catch a few people, and that's how we meet the criteria and criteria, and that's how we negotiate. And finally, these negotiations were conducted non-transparently and without any public contact that was familiar with them after they were completely completed. The pre-accession agreement was also signed, signed by both the Prime Minister and the President of the State, set the date of Croatia's entry into the European Union and after that, the people will now decide something. So we know how we get in, when we go in and why we go in and then we ask the people what they think about it. There was a speech early this year that the referendum would take place before the contract was signed, but it was said to be inconclusive already the first accession contract to be signed and then going to the referendum afterwards. This referendum situation in some ways if I can express myself in such a way as to remind me of a wedding. The wedding is arranged, the hall is bathed, certain musicians are going to church, all guests have envelopes in their pocket and now the bride is being brought in and the bride should be said yes or no. So it's about the state of the Croatian referendum. It's hard for a bride to say no, very hard. But if he says no, then we can't talk about it, so it doesn't matter for six months he'll ask me again, or in a year at least so much honesty to the people's will, if the people really do say no, then we'll respect that will and respect it, if the people say thank God. Given the way the process is led and the fact that most people are indeed, it is not the question whether people are for the European Union but whether for this way they are entering themselves, their families and their households and their homelands into that community of states, primarily because of lack of information. We believe, I support in my debate and our Club so believes that this debate, i.e. that the referendum should be moved for another 6 months and at least three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u987	Thank you very much. We still have two registered speakers, Mr. Representative Igor Cešek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u988	Honored President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Ours and my position because by January 22, there is not enough time for citizens to be sent important messages that bring membership to the European Union. People are not educated enough, nor informed of what awaits us by entering the European Union. Legal gain is so complicated that it needs to be simplified and explained to people. The Croatian peasant seeks answers to certain questions, is not enough just to tell him that he will be able to further roast the brandy for his needs and have a pig's car for his own purposes. The Croatian peasant seeks answers to the... directive, which is with environmental protection, which is with genetically modified organisms, and what conditions are needed to obtain incentives. And we all know that these incentives are not equal for all European Union countries. If the Dutch peasant gets 469 euros in incentives, Belgium's 447 euros, Romania's 118, and in Estonia, the boost is 112 euros. The question is how many Croatian peasants will get incentives and how competitive they will be to the European market. It is clear that by entering Croatia into the European Union we get a unique area where freedom, free flow of goods and products are guaranteed, but with this distribution of incentives cannot certainly be competitive. I also ask the question of how much we will pay the membership fee to the European Union and how much we have so far prepared projects for structural funds that can give us the security to withdraw more funds... I must show concern that the Republic of Croatia could go the same way as Romania, i.e. that the rate of exploitation of the European funds could be very low. Because Romania reportedly managed to withdraw only 3.4% of the 20 billion euros from 2007 to 2013. I therefore propose on my behalf and on behalf of the HDSSB Club that we explain urgently to the citizens what are all the conditions that await us in the European Union, and we extend the referendum in six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u989	Thank you very much. Finally, the representative, Mr. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u990	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian National Assembly. It is important to know that the decisions taken today and this debate will no longer be held in the Croatian Parliament are far-reaching decisions. Not for one generation, not for two generations, not for great-grandsons, but forever. Croatia enters the EU forever and will never again be an independent state. Are we all aware of that? Never again independence of the Republic of Croatia. She loses her independence forever. And what this means for Croatia in which the Lisbon Treaty liberalises not only the flow of goods and services but also the flow of labour. What will it mean in demographic terms for the Republic of Croatia in about 50 years and in the structure of the population? I'm talking about school preparation and the national and other structure of the population. Croatia, which has such a demographic loss and without the EU, Croatia, in which 465 thousand inhabitants more than 10% of the working population are declared to be willing to seek work abroad. Croatia, based on the Lisbon Treaty, will receive workers here from me to say closer to the environment and thus change forever and there will be demographic movements that are not favourable to the Republic of Croatia. And with the right to vote, there will be significant political changes in the political system, especially through the elections. That is why I warn citizens that they do not know, that the one... who, as the Bible, is a priest for the mass, waved, and from which nothing is clear, and in a situation robbed, devastated by Croatia and the economic crisis, when citizens in despair see some way out of the dark tunnel by entering the EU, they see it as the only way out even though they do not know what it brings. What brings to the worker, which brings to the student, which brings the pensioner, which awaits the farmers, but sees it as some kind of rescue and then clearly this simplified and I would even say the adjusted referendum law is such that 3 people can really come out, 2 say about the EU, 1 against and we leave. Based on such a number, which is not a representative of Croatian citizens, we can go to the EU. Isn't that right, Mr. Radosh? You laugh there, but that's the way it is. That is why we are looking for it, not because we are against the EU, but because we are asking for it to be explained in each segment, especially in this demographic, which is what Croatia is waiting for and what Croatia will be like in 100, 200 years. Because we are truly losing our sovereignty forever. No more independent Croatia. That's what this is about. That's why I won't repeat those words of Radic, and we don't want to. There's something else I'd like to add. It's about the phenomenon of Estonia in the Soviet Union. And today, when Estonia has some independence within the EU, the number of Russians in Estonia is still higher than the number of Estonians. That's what I hope you understand. 60-40 for the Russians. Therefore, consider or consider all together and postpone the referendum, but to explain to citizens exactly what is negotiated in every segment of the life of Croatian citizens. Not like we're being swept across by the thirsty across the water into the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u991	Thank you very much. One of the MPs scared me that he was going to cause a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but then he hung up. Thank you very much. Is it possible in the end that a representative of the government would take his word? Yeah. Here you go. Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u992	This debate is giving me a lot of optimism because I see that they are HDSSB representatives or I put things like this. If their voters, and each of us in this House first and foremost corresponds to their constituents, and then to all citizens in some way. But if their voters, which is partly worth it, and the Labourists know half as much as you know about the EU, Havel, the funds, then they're informed, then there's no fear, then in three months they won't know anything more. I usually know that you are a party and a region that is quite active in Brussels that is relatively successful in attracting those funds that we can now attract that you can attract. So, you know that pretty well. So, once again, I'm calling on everyone to back this up. I just needed a few more sentences to say that it is here that will obviously remain in the great minority that do not feel isolated completely. But I see you know what you're talking about, so I'm saying, if your voters know at least half that much, the situation isn't bad. And finally, at one point we have to make a decision in life, and in politics, and in this story that lasts for 10 years which is only the end of the beginning as my colleague Mondekar said quoting Churchill at... But at some point it should stop. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because so a professor of my Roman law interrupted me when I talked too much, and told me a colleague, Professor Boras,... who proves too much, in the end doesn't prove anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why we don't prove too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u993	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Correction of an incorrect allegation. You're giving up, aren't you, as a sign of our contribution to go? You won't give up. Here's a correction to the incorrect quote by Mr. Zoran Vinković.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u994	I want to correct the incorrect assumption. Our voters really do know, and I'm not sure if all MPs know. We are looking for a broad debate in the Croatian Parliament can be called where you are going Croatia because it is not clear where everyone is going. Call the SDP club and you'll see that not everyone knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u995	Thank you. Here's the conclusion of the debate. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Did you see him lift the plate? I didn't see him lift the tile. I didn't see, I'm sorry, my colleagues didn't see it here. ... /The noise in the hall./... I can't give you the right when you haven't achieved it. Don't be angry, please. Maybe you picked it up so you didn't pick it up fast enough, you didn't lift it high enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u996	Mr. President, you're making me come over next time and wave to you with a six-foot plate. Don't make me do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u997	So all your colleagues next to you claim that you've lifted the board. Okay, then I'll appreciate it. Here you go. Mr. Drmic, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u998	Thank you very much. You did the right thing. I would correct one of the incorrect allegations of our new prime minister that HDSSB representatives know a lot about the European Union. That is not true, and you can only hear a lot of questions from our presentations on which we are looking for answers and some of our colleagues who must remain silent here and a large part of Croatia's citizens. These are open questions that I initially thought were answers to, and today I even think that even those who have negotiated with the European Union do not know the answers to these questions, and that is why we are asking for a delay in the referendum for a minimum of three months, that we simply know on the basis of the information we are looking for as we enter the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-23-0.u999	Thank you. I'm closing the final debate. First, I am voting in favour of the previous decision on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in accordance with the proposal of the Proposer. I note that this decision requires a 2/3 majority vote. In accordance with Article 142(3) of the Financial Regulation, The constitution is 101 votes. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I find that most votes, with 129 votes for and 6 abstentions, have made a preliminary decision on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in line with the proposal of the Proposer. Thank you, everyone. [[Applause.]]
