ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 3(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have given me the honour to address the first constitutional session of the 7th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and to chair it temporarily until the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all and congratulate you on the election for representatives and representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I particularly welcome the President of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Ivo Josipovic. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. [[Applause.]] Mandate for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic. [[Applause.]] Former President of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Assembly of Mr Stjepan Mesic. [[Applause.]] Attending Vice-Presidents and Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, Mrs. Jasna Omej. [[Applause.]] President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia Mr Branko Hrvatin. [[Applause.]] Mr. Mladen Bajic's Attorney General. [[Applause.]] Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces, General Drago Lovric. [[Applause.]] So far, the presidents of the Croatian Parliament of Mr. Zarko Domjan, Nedek Mihanović and Vladimir Seks. [[Applause.]] Croatian Academy of Science and Arts President Zvonko Kusic. [[Applause.]] I welcome Mrs. and Mr. Rectors of the Croatian universities. [[Applause.]] I welcome the representatives of the religious communities, the model Cardinal Josip Bozanic, the archbishop of Zagreb. [[Applause.]] The superior Monsignor Marin Srakic, president of the Croatian Bishop's Conference and archbishop of Djakovci-Sekjek. [[Applause.]] Monsignor Enca Rodinis, Secretary General of the Croatian Bishop's Conference. [[Applause.]] Dr Aziz Hasanovic's aide to the religious issues of President Mesikt Mufti Ševka Efendija Omerbasic. [[Applause.]] Dr. Ognjen Kraus, president of the coordination of Jewish municipalities in the Republic of Croatia and president of the Jewish municipality of Zagreb. [[Applause.]] Mr. Luciana Mosu Prelević of the Jewish municipality of Zagreb. [[Applause.]] Mr. Kotel Da-Don's main rabbi for the Croatian religious community bet Israel in Croatia. [[Applause.]] Dr. Crescent. [[Applause.]] Vladimir Sholomon vice president of the Jewish religious community between Israel. Mr Branimir Bucanovic, secretary of the Synod of the Reformed Christian Calvin Church in the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] Mr. Branko Beric of the General Vicar of the evangelical Church in the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] Mr. Tom Magda President of the Federation of Baptist Churches in the Republic of Croatia. [[Applause.]] I welcome the Mayor of the City of Zagreb and Mr. Mayor of Croatian County. [[Applause.]] I welcome Mr. Yuri Mancic's attorney general. [[Applause.]] I welcome the representatives of the Associations of Homeland War representatives of the Union of anti-fascist fighters, representatives of union centres and other present guests at the session. [[Applause.]] I welcome the diplomatic assembly in the Republic of Croatia at the head of the Doomed and Nj. [[Applause.]] E. the most sublime monsignor, Mario Robert Cassari. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the provision of Article 97(1), Rules of Procedure, subparagraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 5, 6 and 80(2). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, the president of the Republic, decided to call elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which took place on Sunday 4 December 2011. [[Applause.]] Elections at polling stations in the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia took place on Saturday 3 December 2011 and on Sunday 4 December 2011. On 13 December 2011, the State Election Commission announced the official results of the elections for MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Republic of Croatia shall, on the basis of Article 97(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia called the Croatian Parliament for the first session. I would like to inform you that according to the State Election Commission report of 13 December 2011 151 MPs and MPs were elected to the Croatian Parliament. According to the records, the presence of 118 MPs and MPs has been recorded so far. Now allow me to address the Parliament according to some tradition. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of this solemn moment of democracy and freedom before we go to the session to briefly refer to the work of VI. It invites the Croatian Parliament. Four years of chairing our highest representative and legislative institution fills me with sincere satisfaction in view of the results achieved. As in all democratically elected parliaments of the world and in the Croatian Parliament as the highest representative body of Croatian citizens, we were participants and witnesses of various often and conflicting political opinions through which MPs sought to articulate the same different and conflicting aspirations of their own voters. All of this was aimed at achieving national strategic objectives, primarily within the framework of a legislative upgrade aimed at achieving the highest democratic, economic standards of developed societies. During the four years of office, MPs were very active both in the work of the parliamentary committees and in sometimes very lively discussions during the plenary session. The period behind us fills us with pride because, despite many obstacles and difficulties on that road, we have achieved two strategic goals that we have set together with the declaration of independence. We have concluded pre-accession negotiations, signed the treaty, and thus the most important share on the road to EU membership and have achieved NATO membership. The Croatian Parliament has played a significant role in this, and I always love to point out that there has always been consensus among parliamentary parties given these national strategic goals that have never been questioned. Out of a total of 500 laws adopted in previous years as part of the adjustment of national legislation, the EU acquis was only adopted in the sixth, so last meeting of the Croatian Parliament, round 300 so-called. "European laws". Already, that figure itself speaks of the vast scope of the work done. In addition, it was necessary to amend and supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by establishing a constitutional and legal basis for Croatia's EU accession and allowing its smooth functioning in the EU. A strong contribution to the EU accession process was also made by the Committee on European Integration, the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, the Committee on Foreign Policy and the National Committee on the Monitoring of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia and the EU. By participating in the work of these, as well as the Committee on Interparliamentary Cooperation and a series of delegations such as the delegation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly has contributed significantly to strengthening Croatia's international reputation and position in the world. This also strengthened the engagement of the previous Croatian Assembly in foreign policy through a series of bilateral and multilateral meetings and joint lobbying with representatives of the Albanian Parliament to strongly encourage the process of ratification of the accession protocol, which ultimately resulted in Croatia's strongest defence alliance in the world. I am proud to point out that the Croatian Parliament hosted the autumn session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Dubrovnik in October this year. As an event that, without any exaggeration, I consider it historically important, I would also single out the establishment of interparliamentary cooperation with Israel's KNESET, which strengthened Croatia's friendly relations with Israel. I also recall the address made to this High House of Presidents of the Slovak Republic of Mr Ivan Gasparović, President of the European Commission Mr Jose Manuel Barroso and President of the Italian Republic of Mr Giorgi Napolitan whose political messages have impressed us deeply and permanently. At the same time, the Croatian Parliament is constantly taking care of the transparency of its work and better direct communication with citizens and information to the public. In addition to allowing representatives of civil associations and various institutions to take part in the work of a number of committees in the Croatian Assembly in cooperation with civil associations and interested institutions, round tables on various topics are often organised. A whole series of reports are published, citizens can visit the Parliament, and in the entire work of the Croatian Parliament, the public can be informed through all media and, I stress this with special satisfaction, through the Croatian Assembly website. In fact, the 2010 World Parliament Report included the Croatian Assembly among the world's most open parliaments. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also returning to the very essence of parliamentaryism in which democracy must be represented as well as a mature and responsible approach to acting on its own parliamentary duty. In this respect, unfortunately, not only can the commendable evaluations of work of VI be made. It calls on the Croatian Parliament and some criticisms of the public were fully justified. Representatives in the new assembly of the Parliament will face new challenges that, as the only direct link between the citizens of Croatia and the institutions of the European Union, Croatia is properly and responsibly represented in the European Parliament, and I sincerely hope and believe that some unloved episodes from the previous period will no longer be repeated. I'd like to remind you that today is 21 years from the so-called. The Christmas Constitution of the Republic of Croatia when it was adopted and declared 22. 12. 1990s. This anniversary of the 21st anniversary, which can be considered in general terms as maturity, including the maturity of parliamentaryism in Croatia and in general Croatian democracy, I think it is good to remember today and remember these days of passing such a significant, fundamental, basic Croatian law, the Croatian Constitution. With the desire for successful, fruitful work in VII. The meeting of the Croatian Parliament, thanks for the attention and for the president of the new Croatian Parliament VII. I want every success in the work as well as in all of you MPs and MPs. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, respected high officials, for the Croatian Parliament to be established in accordance with Article 73. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, with the presence of most MPs, should be joined by the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 5 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament found that the right to submit a proposal at a constitutive session to elect the president of the Croatian Parliament was held by representatives' clubs. On the basis of Article 5 of the Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament and these clubs of representatives of SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU propose to elect a representative of Mr Boris Šprem as president of the Croatian Parliament. Would anyone like to explain the proposal that was delivered? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Before we vote, I would like to inform you that the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament requires most of the votes of the present representatives. As we have determined from the record so far that the presence of 118 representatives is, there is a quorum for the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament. So, I am voting on a proposal from the clubs to elect a representative for the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Boris Šprem. Please, by raising your hands because they're not doing these to us yet, it'll be later until everyone gets their number, their name. Who's up for Mr. Spremo's election, please raise your hand and the counters count. Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 134 votes for, no abstentions and nothing against the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Boris Šprem was elected, to whom I congratulate him on the election. I declare that on the basis of the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia on the meeting of the Croatian Parliament at the first session, the number of present representatives and the election of the President of the Croatian Parliament were established. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I invite you to pay tribute to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem to be performed by the Croatian Radio-Television Assembly. - The performance of "Beautiful Our Homeland" – I call on all MPs and MPs, all guests to pay tribute to the fallen country for a minute of silence, free, sovereign and democratic Croatia, heroes of the Homeland War, defenders of Croatia and all civilian victims of war. - A minute of silence - May eternal praise and glory be to them! - Praise them. - I congratulate the President of the Croatian Parliament again Mr. Boris Šprem on his election and I invite him to address those present and then to take his seat at the Presidential table and continue to chair the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, Mr. President Šprem.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic of Croatia, Madam Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister for the composition of the new government, Presidents of the Constitutional Court and President of the Supreme Court, distinguished high-ranking guests, respected fellow MPs and MPs, and in particular citizens and citizens who have given us the mandate to represent you and to serve you. Let me thank President Luka Bebić for the successful conduct of the Croatian Parliament in the past term. ... I thank the respected colleagues and colleagues for the trust you've given me, which I first see as an obligation to continue the development of democracy. [[Applause.]] This is Parliament's 7th session of the country's independence. It has been 20 years since the creation of a sovereign democratic Croatia. Six previous parliaments contributed to the construction and consolidation of democratic institutions and the rule of law. It was also a kind of school of democracy in general and parliamentaryism in particular. At that school, our predecessors were once at the level of their great responsibilities, and sometimes unfortunately, they did not justify the trust that the people showed them. We had a stalemate, we were stopping. Still, there's no doubt we've made progress. We built the country's democratic architecture and showed a lasting commitment to the pluralist democratic option. The people just lent us their sovereignty, not unconditionally. It is our imperative task to keep in mind at all times the greatest values written in the Constitution. And these are freedom, equality, national equality, gender equality, peace, social justice, human rights, integrity of ownership, nature conservation and the environment, rule of law and a democratic multiparty system. And all of this in the function of preserving the state sovereignty and creating conditions for the better life of all our citizens, which we will do best by creating legislative frameworks for the country's exit from the deep economic and social crisis, the most difficult crisis Croatia has faced since the Homeland War. We'll have to decide, and then we'll be responsible sometimes for unpopular measures, because they're a necessary part of the future improvement. We must show by our actions that we serve the citizens, that we are not guided by personal, group, corporate, scrupulous or ideological goals. By doing so, they would betray the foundations of our Constitution, all that we inherited by the anti-fascist struggle and all that was fought for and died in the Homeland War in a war we didn't want, but which we were forced out of and from which we came out as winners. We live in difficult but challenging times. The whole world is at a turning point. It's boiling all over the place. Burns are still in the final outcome of uncertain events in Arab countries, wars are still under way. The crisis has gripped the heart of capitalism. There are dramatic developments in Europe and the European Union. It is increasingly clear that the concept of liberal capitalism needs urgent redesign. The global crisis account cannot only be delivered to the world of work or to the poorest countries of the world. One of the first decisions of this seven. It will call for a referendum on entry into the European Union. Respecting a different view as legitimate and legal, I expect the vast majority of citizens will say historically yes. So it is up to us to end this long journey, end up becoming successful in starting previous assemblies and governments, and the main part and presidents of the Republic, and the main part of the final part of our predecessors and the Government on their way out, and thank them for that. But after the referendum, we must continue to strengthen and develop democratic frameworks and fill them with content and values that will bring us closer and equalise us with the most developed EU countries. In particular, this concerns the rule of law and an even more energetic fight against corruption and crime, the more effective functioning of the legal system, the protection of human and minority rights and, of course, as a prerequisite for any real democracy and economic development that Croatia does not remain forever on the periphery of Europe. Membership in the Union is a dynamic category of current turmoil, and therefore it is up to us to adapt and adapt to turbulence and change and to take advantage of our advantages and opportunities. Democracy is not a river without shore. She has her own firm rules. In order to protect herself, she needs to be recognized in time when anarchy threatens her, and when an attempt to introduce a firm hand because of its higher interests. One of the fundamental rights within democratic parliamentism is the right to vary, the right to think differently and behave. Although I sincerely hope that on strategic issues we will not have major obstacles, it would be naive and democratic and think that in this House we will achieve unity and unanimity because its composition reflects differences within our society. Therefore, there is no need to be afraid of bile debates, but I plead that they should be within a democratic procedure with a lot of respect for each other. Let's make a difference, let's make it a living, let's make it a tough verbal conflict, if that'll lead us to the right solutions, if that'll be the way out of the crisis. Every crisis and ours, which is partly imported, but is primarily our indigenous product, is not only the fall of old, surviving and incompetent but also the possibility. This crisis should be grabbed as a precious historical moment in which new opportunities, new social relations, new ways of thinking and new forms of social gathering and action can be realized. Otherwise, we will be condemned to repeat the old and the surviving or on trips outside the cover of democracy. I will personally listen carefully to the voice of citizens, union organisations and civil society. I'm going to make sure that voice is fully respected in our work. Like I said, times are hard, problems are big. The challenges facing Parliament and the new government are extremely serious. We are facing decisive measures and reforms to get us out of this deep and dangerous crisis. Croatia is once again at a historic crossroads. We need a material but moral restoration of society. Recently, one chronicler wrote that December 4th was the power of 12 hours in the hands of the people. We must be deeply aware that this rule of the people should last all the time, and not just those 12 hours, and that is precisely through the highest representative body of our country, through this Parliament that we are inauguration today. I want all of you, all of us, a lot of success in our work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I suggest we approach the agenda of the session. [[Applause.]] In the materials you have received for this session, a possible agenda has been announced, which would be complemented by another point, which is the choice of President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Justice. Any of the MPs object to the proposed agenda? If not, I'd like to confirm that the agenda has been accepted. We are now moving to work according to the established agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I suggest we approach the agenda of the session. In the materials you have received for this session, a possible agenda has been announced, which would be complemented by another point, which is the choice of President, Vice-President and members of the Committee on Justice. Any of the MPs object to the proposed agenda? If not, I'd like to confirm that the agenda has been accepted. We are now moving to work according to the established agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u83	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 1st session held on 22 December 2011, the mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the published final results of the elections for representatives in the Croatian Parliament of the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia of 13. December 2011. Years. The commission found that 151 MPs were elected to the Croatian Assembly under the provisions of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament and that: 140 MPs were selected from the list in 10 constituencies based on the provisions of Article 38 of the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament. The three MPs were selected from a list in a special constituency based on the provisions of Article 44. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and 8 representatives of national minorities were elected from a list in a special constituency based on the provisions of Article 16. And 17. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Commission has established that they are based on Article 12. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, after the disbanding of the Parliament, continued to act on their duties and powers until a new assembly of parliament was established, and that the term of office of representatives of the previous Assembly ended on the day of the constitution. On the same day, it shall cease to convene representatives of the previous assembly of members of the bodies and organisations outside the Assembly appointed by the Assembly of MPs if the appointment is conditional upon the conduct of the duties of representatives, and that day the membership of the working bodies of the members appointed shall cease. The Committee shall be based on Articles 6 and 12. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament reached the conclusion: On the day of the constitution of the Parliament, the term of office of representatives of the previous assembly of the Parliament ended, and in the Croatian Parliament were elected by the following representatives in alphabetical order: Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Vedran Babić, Branko Bačić, Jakša Balojević, Martina Banić, Petar Baranović, Milorad Batinić, Arsen Bauk, Nevenka Bečić, Davor Bernardić, Goran Beus Richembergh, Vladimir Bileg, Boris Blažević, Valter Bjemunčić, Josip Boržanić, Davor Božinović, Miržanović, Miražanić, Mirjavić, Igor Brk Brkić, Kršimir Bubanić, Žažanić, Žažažanić, Žažažažanić, Žažažažanić, Žažanić, Žažažanić, Žažažić and Žažažažažažić, Zažak, Zavić and Žažić. The commission then found that on December 22nd, it began the rest of the parliamentary mandate for the representatives: Jadranka Kosor, Darko Milinović, Gordan Jandroković, Petar Čobanković, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, Đuro Popijač, Bozidar Kalmeta, Branko Bačić, Tomislav Karamarko, Martina Dalic, Davor Bozin Mlakar, Jasen Mesic and Tomislav Ivić, who, according to the results of the election for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, were elected, but act as members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is incompatible with the parliamentary duties. The mandate of those MPs will rest until the new Government of the Republic of Croatia is trusted. The Commission found that Article 9 was in line with Article 9 of the basic Regulation. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament due to the incompatibility of the parliamentary duty with the simultaneous conduct of the duties mentioned in that article acquired the conditions for the start of the term of office of MPs: Sinisa Hajdas Tončić, Ivan Jakovčić, Milan Jurković, Zlatko Komadina, Marina Lovrić Mercel, Daniel Marusic, Goran Pauk, Ante Sanader and Vladimir Šišljagić. The Commission has established that Article 14(1) has been complied with. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament reached the conditions for the start of a stay of the parliamentary term to the following representatives: Krešimir Bubalo, Josip Frisčić, Damir Krstičević and Vesna Škare Ozbolt. Political parties shall be based on Article 12. The Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament from their list of unselected candidates in election units has been set up by candidates for deputies, and therefore the parliamentary mandate begins to act: Zoran Dinkovic, deputy representative in the 4th election unit on the HDSSB list instead of Krešimir Bubal, Dunja Špoljar deputy candidate in the 3rd election unit as a candidate on the list of SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU, instead of Sinišija Hajdaša Dončić, Djivani Sponza deputy candidate in the 8th election unit as a candidate on the list of SDP, HNS, HSU and HSU members of the SSU team member, Mr. Ivan Jakovčić, Ana Lovrin is a deputy candidate in the 9th election unit as a candidate for the SDP, HDP-S candidate in the SDP-Krankažnik Group. In accordance with the said Mandate-Immunity Commission, pursuant to Articles 9, 11 and 14. The Law on Elections of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has decided that on December 22, 2011, the parliamentary mandates of elected MPs begin to rest, and that day the parliamentary duty begins to act as deputy deputies, I will read only the names of deputies. Once again, Zoran Vinković, Dunja Spoljar, Giovanni Sponza, Ana Lovrin, Ada Damjanac, Ante Babić, Zoran Vasic, Šima Djurđević, Branka Jurić Martinčev, Dinko Bošnjak, Igor Češek and Ivanka Roksandić. The conclusion on elected representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the decision to open the term of office and to initiate the conduct of the parliamentary office and their deputies shall be published in the National Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u84	Thank you very much to the President of the Mandate Commission. I'm opening a debate on this report. I am concluding the debate because no one has come to the vote, and I am voting on the following conclusion: a report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections held for the Croatian Parliament and the names of elected representatives, on the names of MPs acting irrevocably with the parliamentary duty, and their mandate rests, on the names of MPs whose term of office rests on their request, and on deputies who are starting to act on their parliamentary duty instead. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I now find that this conclusion has been unanimously accepted. Now we move to the 3rd point of the agenda, which is – 3. Advocacy of MPs Following a report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the elections carried out pursuant to Article 7. Rules of Procedure, I call upon you to join in your oath. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, and after that he shall call the representatives by name. A representative when called rises and says, "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Now we're going to move on to calling the MPs. Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u86	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u87	Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u88	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u89	Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u90	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u91	Jaksha Balojevic. Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u92	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u93	Peter Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u94	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u95	Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u96	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u97	Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u98	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u99	Nevenka Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u100	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u101	Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u102	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u103	Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u104	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u105	Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u106	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u107	Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u108	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u109	Walter Blondie.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u110	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u111	Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u112	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u113	Biljana Borzana. Biljana Borzana – I swear, Dinko Bošnjak – I swear, Miljan Brkić – I swear, Dinko Burić – I swear, Nada Čavlović Smiljanec – I swear, Igor Češek – I swear, I swear, I swear, Josip Đakić – I swear, Šima Đurđević – I swear, I swear, Igor Drmić – I swear, I swear, I swear, Ilija Filipović – I swear, I swear, I swear, Gvozdan Srđan Gjurković – I swear, I swear, Iljam – Žažažam, Žažažam Žažam, Žežam Žežam Žež, Žežak, Žežam Žežak – Željak – I swear, Žežažam Žežažažaž, Žež, Žežam Žež, Žežak Žežam Žežam Žežam Žežam Žežam Žežam, Žežam Žežam Žekov, Žežam Žekov, Žežam Žežam – Vržam – Vržamžam – Vrsžam Žaržam Žaržam Žaržam Žaržam Žaržam Žaržam Žaržam Žaržam Žaržam Gjur Gjur GjGurković – I swear I swear, Zažam Gjam Gjam Gjur Gjur GjGurković Gjur GjGurković – I swear, I swear I swear I swear, I swear, Vjem Gjm Gjm Gjum Gjm Gjm Gjm Gjm Gjam Gajm Gajm GJKKKKKK - I i GJKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK , Dragutin Lesar – I swear, Slavko Linić – I swear, Ana Lovrin – I swear, Franjo Lucić – I swear, Šime Lučin – I swear, Marija Lugarić – I swear, Gordan Maras – I swear, Dujomir Marasović – I swear, Natalija Martinčević – I swear, Damir Mateljan – I swear, Frano Matušić – I swear, Zoran Milanović – I swear, Mirando Mrsić – I swear, Zvonko Milas – I swear, Mršić – I swear, Mladen Novak – I swear, Milanka Opačić – I swear, Rajko Ostojić – I swear, Miranda Mrsić – I swear, Zvonimir Mršić – I swear, Mladen Novak – I swear, Milanka Opačić – I swear, Rajko Ostojić – I swear, Ranko Ostojić – I swear, Ranko Ostojić – I swear, I swear, Toseložam, Topoisežam, Tozen Piježam, Tozen Piježam, Andež, Andež, Andež, Andež. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , Jozo Radoš – I swear, Ivo Rajenović – I swear to you, Željko Reiner – I swear, Ivanka Roksandić – I swear, Zdravna Sponza – I swear, Željko Sabo – I swear, Josip Salapić – I swear, Tomislav Sauch – I swear, Gordana Sobol – I swear, Giovanni Sponza – I swear, Vojislav Stanimirović – I swear, Nenad Stazić – I swear, Davor Ivo Stier – I swear, Đurđica Sumrak – I swear, Ivan Šantek – I swear, Vladimir Šeks – I swear, Željko Šemer – I swear, I swear, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić – I swear, Denjesom Šojam – I swear, Dunja Špoljar – I swear, Boris Šm – I swear, I swear, I swear, Ivan Šam – I swear, Ivan Šam – I swear, Ivan Šukljjam, Ivan Šužam, Ivan Šukžam – I swear, Rukžam, Rukžam, Ružm, Rukjam, Rukžam, Ružam, Rukžam, Rukžam, Ružam, Ružamžam – Zamić, Ružam – Zamić – Zajkamić Vjamakkjamak – I [[The speaker speaks Italian, he doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much, everyone. Congratulations to all MPs and MPs on their sworn oath and I wish them success in carrying out an honorable and responsible representative's duties. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. Mr. Kerum is here. My colleagues and colleagues, I have one request before we go to the next item of the agenda. The only representative who's here in the hall, is now and has not been present before, so I'd like to take an oath if you agree. This is Mr. Zeljko Kerum. Do you agree to allow him to take an oath today? Thank you. Mr. Representative, when I read the text of the oath, I ask you to say I swear, and I am now reading the text of the oath: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u115	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u116	Thank you very much. Congratulations to Mr. Zeljko Kerum on his election and oath and I want a lot of success in my work. [[Applause.]] Moving to point four, that's four. Selection of the Vice-President of the Croatian Assembly of Articles 31 and 31 The Rules of Procedure have been found to have two to five vice-presidents. The same article found that if two vice-presidents were elected one is elected on a parliamentary majority proposal and the other on a parliamentary minority proposal. In line with the inter-party agreement, five vice-presidents will be elected, three vice-presidents are elected on a parliamentary majority proposal and two on a parliamentary minority proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure lays down that the proposal to elect a vice-president at a constitutional session may be submitted by representatives' clubs. The SDP, HNS, IDS, HSU's clubs submitted the following proposal: Mr. Josip Leko, Mr. Nenad Stazic and Mr. Milorad Batinic are proposed from the parliamentary majority. Do the club representatives want to explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate and we're moving on to a choice. Before we make a statement about the club's proposal, I would like to remind you that the election of Vice-President of the Parliament requires most of the votes of the representatives present. I am voting on the proposal for clubs to elect Mr. Josip Leko as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that the proposal has been unanimously accepted by 133 votes. I declare that Mr. Josip Leko has been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. I congratulate him on his unanimous choice, and I wish him a lot of success in his work. I am voting on the proposal for clubs to elect Mr. Nenad Stazic as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that the proposal was unanimously accepted by 133 votes in favour. I declare that Mr Nenad Stazic has been elected vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations and I want a lot of success in the work. I am voting on the proposal for clubs to elect Mr Milorad Batinić as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Against? Restraint? So I find that the proposal was unanimously accepted by 133 of our votes and declare that Mr Milorad Batinić was elected as vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations and I want a lot of success in the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 1st session of the Committee on Elections, colleagues and colleagues decided that the proposal for a decision on the selection of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament was established. The Committee on the Constitution and the political system of the Croatian Parliament is elected President Josip Leko, Vice-President Vladimir Seks, members of Tonino Picula, Nenad Stazić, Ivo Jelusic, Dr. Gvosden Srecko Flego, magistrate Marin Jurjevic, Goran Beus Richembergh, Dr. Milorad Pupovac, Dragutin Lesar, Ante Kulušić, Franjo Lucić, Branka Jurčev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u123	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am concluding the debate and voting on the committee's proposal. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I therefore find that, unanimously with 132 votes, the proposal of the Committee for Election, Designation and Administrative Affairs has been adopted and I declare that the Committee for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System has been elected: for President Josip Leko, Vice President Vladimir Seks, for members of Tonino Picula, Nenad Stazić, Ivo Jelusic, Gvo Srecko Flego, Marin Jurjevic, Goran Beus Richembergh, Milorad Pupovac, Dragutin Lesar, Ante Kulušić, Franjo Lucic, Branka Juričev Martinchev. Congratulations on the election and I want a lot of success in the work. We're going to point nine, and that's nine. Selection of the President, Vice-President and members of the Legislative Committee of Article 60 The Rules of Procedure have been established that the Committee on Legislatives has a President, Vice-President and 11 members of the Bureau and nine other members are appointed from the ranks of scientific and professional staff. Now again, I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointment and Administrative Affairs of Mr. Shima Lucin to present a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u125	Thank you very much. At the same session, the Committee set out the following proposal: for President Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Vice-President Josip Salapić, for members Vesna Fabiančić Križanić, Peđa Grbin, Dragica Zgrebec, Tomislav Saucha, Srdjan Jurković, Visnja Fortuna, Master Denes Soja, Nikola Buljanić, Stjepan Milinković, Ivan Shantek and Sunčana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u126	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the committee's proposal. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 131 votes, the Committee's proposal for selection, appointment and administrative work has been accepted. I declare them elected to the Committee on Legislatives: President Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Vice-President Josip Salapić, members Vesna Fabiančić Križanić, Peđa Grbin, Dragica Zgrebec, Tomislav Saucha, Srdjan Jurković, Višnja Fortuna, Denes Soja, Nikola Buljanić, Stjepan Milinković, Ivan Shantek and Sunčana Glavak. Congratulations on the election and I want a lot of success in the work. We're going to the 10th point. Ten. The election of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Justice is the choice of presidents, vice-presidents and members of the Committee on Justice. For the purposes of this The Rules of Procedure have been established that the Committee on Justice has a president, a vice president and 11 members of the Bureau, and 6 other members are appointed from the public, scientific and professional staff. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of Mr. Lucin to present a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u128	At today's session, the Committee also established a proposal for a decision on the election of presidents, vice-presidents and members, members of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament, they are elected president of Dr. Josip Kregar, Vice-President Ana Lovrin, for members of Peđa Grbin, Vesna Fabiančić Križanić, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Igor Radjanović, Nada Čavlović Smiljanec, Nada Turina Đurić, Davor Ivo Stier, Ante Babić, Ante Kulušić, Ilija Filipović and Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-12-22-0.u129	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am concluding the debate and voting on the committee's proposal. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I declare that, unanimously with 132 votes, the proposal for an election, appointment and administrative affairs has been accepted, and I declare that the Committee on Justice has been elected president Josip Kregar, Vice-President Ana Lovrin, members of Peđa Grbin, Vesna Fabiančić Križanić, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Igor Radjenović, Nada Čavlović Smiljanec, Nada Turina Đurić, Davor Ivo Stier, Ante Babić, Ante Kulušić, Ilija Filipović and Ivanka Roksandić. I congratulate you on your choice, and I wish you a lot of success in your work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have exhausted the established agenda and I am concluding the first session of the Croatian Parliament. But please just let me know. The first notice that the Legislative Committee is held at 13.30 in the Jelacic Hall, some call it the centre. 13.30 also the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system in the Chamber of Janko Draskovic. I think it's room 202. And at 14.30 p.m., the Justice Committee in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić, room No. 133. Stepan Radic. And on the bench you received a call for another extraordinary, yet you have not received but should arrive at any moment for the second extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. And I suggest that this session be held at the beginning at 1600 hours so that everything can be done on time and quality. And now there's gonna be a call for the session any minute. Should we wait a little longer? You don't have to wait, by the benches you'll get, so call for a session. He was supposed to be here, but here he is not yet. They didn't get to multiply. Thank you.
