ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75578	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a very short one, and very clear one. On 4 February this year, the Parliament elected the president and three members of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board. Among those three members and Dr. Antu Zigman. However, Dr. Zigman informed the Croatian Parliament that he was asking to be relieved of his duties in March. The Media Committee respected this, and launched a procedure for selecting a new member, discussed the candidates, all those who arrived within the deadline and who meet the requirements laid down in the law and forwarded the competition to representatives' clubs for compliance. There was no agreement, so the Committee on Information, Information and Media decided unanimously at its 42nd session, and in accordance with the Law on Croatian Radio Television, on the proposal of the clubs of the Assembly majority, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the appointment of Mrs Zrinka Malešević as member of the Croatian Supervisory Board for the remainder of the term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75579	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We move to the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. Proposer of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to resolve members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. Let's please get involved and vote on resolution. The result? The decision was made by a majority of 99 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and nothing against. In the text proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75582	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a very short one, and very clear one. On 4 February this year, the Parliament elected the president and three members of the Croatian Radio Television Supervisory Board. Among those three members and Dr. Antu Zigman. However, Dr. Zigman informed the Croatian Parliament that he was asking to be relieved of his duties in March. The Media Committee respected this, and launched a procedure for selecting a new member, discussed the candidates, all those who arrived within the deadline and who meet the requirements laid down in the law and forwarded the competition to representatives' clubs for compliance. There was no agreement, so the Committee on Information, Information and Media decided unanimously at its 42nd session, and in accordance with the Law on Croatian Radio Television, on the proposal of the clubs of the Assembly majority, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the appointment of Mrs Zrinka Malešević as member of the Croatian Supervisory Board for the remainder of the term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75583	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide when the conditions are met. We move to the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Radio Television for the remainder of the term of office. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the discharge of members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Radio Television for the remainder of the term of office. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? The decision was made by a majority of 95 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 1 against. In the text proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75586	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of MPs and MPs in front of you now is the final proposal of the Law on Roads. In December 2010, the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion on the adoption of the draft law and sent all comments, proposals and opinions to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal. In the preparation of the final proposal, all comments, proposals and opinions and comments adopted have been included in the text of the final draft law. The biggest consensus in the meantime was the agreement between the Association of Cities in the Republic of Croatia and the ZUCs which co-ordinated certain disputed points in the first reading of the law, i.e. regulate the relationship between crossing the county, present-day county roads in the area of large cities and county headquarters in the jurisdiction of large cities. With regard to issues covered by the applicable Law on Public Roads, it was necessary to regulate the law on public roads, the legal status of unclassified roads, which is the reason for the new law to be called the Law on Roads, not more the Law on Public Roads, to strengthen the provisions on the protection of public roads, and to comply with the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and in an appropriate way to install the provisions of new EU Directives in the field of road safety and electronic toll collection adopted in 2009 and 2010. Papers in law, proposed new solutions. These are unclassified roads in Articles 98 to 109 that have been partially regulated by the Law on the Communist Economy so far. The new Law on Roads according to the same principles as public roads will regulate the concept and parts of the unclassified road, their legal status, property-legal relations related to the construction of unclassified roads as well as the registration of land books. This law proposes to designate unclassified roads as a public good in general use owned by a unit of local self-government in which they are located. Unclassified road cannot be alienated from the ownership of a unit of local self-government, nor can real rights be acquired on it except the right of service and the right to build buildings in accordance with the decision of representative bodies, provided that the team does not interfere with the smooth movement of traffic and maintenance of an unclassified road. The Law on the municipal economy will continue to apply to the management of unclassified roads and financing. In addition, decentralisation of road management in cities is defined in Article 108. The 2005 Law on Local and Regional Self-Government contains the provision that large cities, cities with more than 35,000 inhabitants and cities of county headquarters should be entrusted with road maintenance jobs. This law leaves major cities to build and maintain the current county and local roads in their territory, and public roads stop being public and become unclassified. The funds for non-classified roads in the area of large cities and county centres, with the means prescribed by law, which is governed by the municipal economy under this law, are provided partly from the annual fee for the use of public roads paid in the registration of the vehicle and partly from the compensation for the financing of the construction and maintenance of public roads planned for Croatian roads in the state budget. The schedule criteria determine the proportion of unclassified roads that were formerly state, county and local in the total length of state, county and local roads classified according to a decision on the classification of public roads in state, county and local. County and local roads outside the area of large cities and cities, which are the headquarters of the county run by the County Road Society, remain in the jurisdiction. The law is also in line with EU directives and this is implemented in accordance with Directive 2008/96/EC on road infrastructure security management and is implemented in compliance with Directive 2009/750/EC on European electronic toll collection. Controls of inspection of unclassified roads are determined in a way that inspections by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure are carried out in large cities and cities of the county headquarters on unclassified roads which have ceased to be public according to this law. Inspection of other unclassified roads shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on the municipal economy. The registration of public roads and unclassified roads is defined in Articles 123 to 130 and Articles 131 to 133. All public roads built up until the date of entry into force of this law will be recorded in the cataster and entered in land books on the basis of a geodetic lab which has established the state and basis of the decision of the Minister by which the category of public road is determined regardless of the existing records of ownership in land books. Public roads are registered as public good in general use and as inalienable ownership of the Republic of Croatia. The same principle is also prescribed for unclassified roads. It has also been returned to the law on excessive use, which was evicted in late 2009, and in sources of public road financing, compensation for excessive use of public roads is returned. In addition, Article 29 defines the maintenance of overpasses, underpasses and other road facilities at intersections. The right to release toll payments and annual fees extends the circle of persons with disabilities who can exercise the right to release toll payments and to the category of persons who have been diagnosed with physical damage, sensed a vision of 100%. The normative solutions taken from the applicable Roads Act are the legal status of a public road which has since 2009 been defined as a public good in the general application of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia's latest amendments to the law of 2009 until the amendments and addition of the law of December 2009 had a legal status of public goods of general interest for the Republic of Croatia. The classification of public roads is 4 groups, which is on the trail of the 2004 Law, where they are shared on highways, state roads, county roads and local roads according to the criteria established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The bill set up a system for long-term and short-term planning of public road development through planning documents through a public road development strategy brought by the Croatian Parliament through a public road construction and maintenance programme for a 4-year period. So far, programmes have been adopted from 2001 to 2004, 2005 to 8 and the programme is now in effect from 2009 to 2012. Construction and maintenance and other management operations, public road protection measures, property legal relations in relation to construction, reconstruction and maintenance were based on the latest amendments to the laws implemented in mid-2009. Concession can only be given for freeways or for certain roadways with toll charges on the state road. Public road financing, the law regulates the financing of public roads from a series of public road charges paid by public road users. The use of highways and individual facilities on state roads may be subject to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since the fee for the financing, maintenance and construction of public roads is now included in the excise duty under the Excise Act, and the income is the state budget, is paid per litre of charged excise duties on energy, motor gasoline and gas oils worth 0.6 kuna on the account of HAC and an amount of 0.6 kuna on the account of Croatian roads. The excise duty law was adopted in July 2009 and entered into force 1.1. 2010. And the financial effects of this Act on the state budget for the implementation of this law shall be ensured by these resources from the state budget of 1.2 kuna per litre of fuel, and the annual fee for the use of public roads and tolls for the most disabled. In the 2011 state budget, fees for financing, maintenance and construction of public roads for Croatian highways and Croatian roads are provided in total amounting to 2 billion 780 million kuna with projections for 2012 and 2013 amounting to 2 billion and 800 million kuna per year. For the annual fee for the use of public roads and tolls for the most disabled, the national budget for 2011 provides for funding of €26 million, and the same amount is foreseen according to budget projections for the 12th and 13. How will the State Bureau of Measurement be empowered to issue a certificate of compliance with technical conditions and interoperability elements related to the European electronic toll collection in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012. The State Bureau of Measurement will need to provide additional funds of a total of 700 thousand kuna for that purpose. It is noted that, at the same time, the issue of certificates provides for an increase in the revenues of the state budget in 2012 by 400,000 kuna. In all respects, I propose that this draft be adopted of the final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75587	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? There's no interest. I'm opening a debate. And the first is on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivan Bogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75588	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a road law, this legislative proposal harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union. The public road is well of interest to the Republic of Croatia in general use and public roads cannot acquire ownership rights or other real rights on any basis other than the right of service and right of construction, for the construction of municipal water and energy buildings as well as electronic communication infrastructures and related equipment, and road land can be given to use for the pursuit of accompanying activities, the provision of public road users according to this property which is managed to build public road maintenance becomes generally of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The most important legal effect of declaring public roads is the exclusion of public road from the general ownership of the legal regime and therefore the possibility of obtaining property and limited real rights on them on any basis such as legal work, the law of the court or other competent authorities. As a result, public roads cannot even be implemented, they cannot be established forcible rights in insurance procedures, and public roads do not enter the property of persons authorised by law to manage them. It also provides special protection of public roads as a good of interest for the Republic of Croatia and lists the public road in land books on the basis of a powerful licence as a public good in general use and as inalienable property of the Republic of Croatia. We have a positive view that this Law proposes that unclassified roads be designated as a public good in general use owned by a unit of local self-government in which they are located. It is also proposed to determine which roads, which make up components of unclassified roads, are prescribed to register the same in land books as the procedure in solving property legal relations in their construction and reconstruction. I believe that this will enable and facilitate the units of local self-government to solve the documentation for road construction as quickly and quality as possible. The problem of public roads which have been built long before and not that they do not have a valid permit should certainly be noted here, most often they have not even done land expropriation, and today this appears as a major problem since we know that co-ownership has not been resolved most often, and it is very difficult to reach real owners mainly in catastrian municipalities that do not have land books and are in Croatia 283. Public roads are classified in highways, state roads, county and local roads depending on their social, transport and economic significance, in accordance with the prescribed criteria and the decision on classification is made by the minister of transport, sea and infrastructure. This law suggests that the county's districts remain in charge of the county roads and localities outside the area of large cities and cities, which are the headquarters of the county in which the County Road Administration manages. Road infrastructure management will be implemented in a way that leaves county and local roads in the large cities with more than 35,000 inhabitants and cities of county headquarters in the area of construction and maintenance in their area, which cease to be public and become unclassified roads particularly defined as city roads. The funds for maintenance and reconstruction and construction of unclassified roads in the area of large cities and county centres under the means prescribed by the law governing the municipal economy under this law are provided in part from the annual fee for the use of public roads paid in the registration of vehicles and partly from the financing of public road construction and maintenance fees planned for Croatian roads in the state budget. In order for public roads to be managed quality, built and maintained, it is necessary to draw up planning documents and this is the strategy for the development of public roads that brings together the Croatian Parliament, the programme for the construction and maintenance of public roads for the four-year period brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the annual implementation plans adopted by public road managers. The law also prescribes measures to protect public roads. I will refer to excessive use and exceptional transport where a more high-quality redistribution of funds is proposed for this basis. I will also mention article 50 relating to game damage. Article 2 is replaced by the following: "Responsibility for damage to the public road caused by a savage by a person or a vehicle is borne by a person who, in accordance with the rules governing hunting, master and hunting grounds." Article 2 "The driver shall be responsible for the damage referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article unless he has acted on traffic rules and signs." And paragraph 3. "A legal person who manages a public road or concessionary shall be liable for the damage referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article if the public road, at the request of the person who manages the hunting grounds, is not marked by traffic signalling and equipment in accordance with specific regulations." The HDZ Representatives Club has also submitted an amendment to this article, so I believe that it will be further discussed and improved. The proposed provisions in relation to the applicable Public Roads Act extend the circle of persons with disabilities who can exercise the right to release toll payments and to the category of persons who have been diagnosed with physical impairment of a vision of 100%. Since it is one group of people with the most severe disability. In addition, the law proposes to prescribe the responsibility of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure for more detailed regulation of the conditions and documents on the basis of which the law is exercised. Implementation of the procedure and adoption of a solution on the exercise of the right of persons with disabilities to the release of annual fees and tolls. The inclusion of the provisions of Directive 2009/750 TC on the European electronic toll charge will ensure the implementation of the European toll payment model in the Republic of Croatia and the inclusion of the Croatian road network charging toll in an interoperable toll system on the EU road network. Enc is a legal person who has the appropriate equipment to enable the ENC to collect toll, fulfils the conditions for the provision of the ENC service and is registered as an enc service register in an EU Member State in which it has its head office. Articles 138 and 139 shall set deadlines within which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt regulations and decisions, and the Minister of Time Regulations for which they are authorised by the provisions of this Act. This Roads Act defines the legal position and classification of public roads, regulates construction and maintenance and measures to protect public roads, concessions, financing and public road management. This legislative proposal is in line with the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and New EU Directives on Road Safety and Electronic Toll Charges, regulates issues of unclassified roads and addresses the issue of enrolment of public and unclassified roads in land books. The HDZ advocates' club will support the adoption of proposals by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75589	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Agent Ivan Hanzek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75590	Honored President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the front of us I would say a very successful product which is the result of the torment and work of colleagues and colleagues from the ministry as well as joint work with other institutions that participate in road use, road management and road financing. From the first reading to today's debate on the adoption of this law of engagements and associations of cities as well as representatives of ZUC's has helped us to jointly succeed in the final proposal of this law to include everything that has been felt or suffered for years by cities, municipalities, counties, in view of the division of roads to public and to some non-public ones. The argument we performed towards the ministry was not surprised by the ministry nor was the ministry resilient but clearly there are always other reasons when the promoter can't perform with the same views or pledges as the other participants. This time this was not the case, and here we have come to the proposal of the Roads Act, which regulates the issues of all the roads that are being driven by public traffic. Our argument was as follows, if the Road Safety Act applies on unclassified roads then it is clear that unclassified roads must be included in one such legal act. And I repeat, here is God's thanks in articles 98 to 109, which included the issue of unclassified roads, and we have definitely now covered all the roads with this legal proposal. This support I can present on behalf of the SDP club that we will support this bill is not subject to those but. Namely, but it could refer to that part that this law will certainly show through implementation that we have not solved all the issues, that we have not given answers to all the problems because I think it is difficult and among the most excellent experts to gather in one place the legislators and then say, all the dilemmas, all the problems of this law have been removed. And here's the big city observation. In fact, the criterion that funds will be allocated to unclassified roads, and so far have been county or state-wide for miles or meters is not perfect, but there should be government regulations and rules of the ministry to resolve this issue because some county and state roads are 6 or 7 meters wide, and some are four-way and the cost of maintaining kilometers is not the same. However, I do not think that this should hinder the raise of hands to support this law but rather to expect the ministry to suggest that the rules or regulations should be resolved. Anyway, we welcome the final draft of the law, and we believe that it is historic for one single reason but truly historic, which is that we can finally all, both the Croatian roads and the County Roads and local self-government, approach a certain state-of-the-art in land books when it comes to roads. A colleague outside the HDZ club mentioned it on the way. But the fact is, the secretary of state also mentioned it on the board, the Adriatic highway that was built in the '50s and '60s, and it's probably still going through the grant particles of individuals that are in one way or another. My experience from Zagorje is that until the construction of the highway Zagorje highway, the highway was also located on private particles of citizens who received a fair fee, paid and did not seek or raise a problem when the Croatian roads approached the book. But the fact is that regardless of the consent of the former owners or those who are registered as owners, the fact is that without the large funds and the allocation of large funds of the local self-government of Croatian roads, you cannot realize it. From the price of the services of geodetic institutions to all those costs which are not usually specified in the final cost of a job. Here I want to emphasise one more thing which is good, and I see that the Justice Committee has also pointed out the problem of the ENC or the electronic charge. It is known that, do not correct me, I have no intention of presenting the wrong information, that no other highway or building in Croatia except the Zagreb-Macelj highway is included, or the Zagreb-Macelj highway is the only one not included in the ENC system. According to information from the ministry, talks were held with the concessionary, and in this situation it is hoped that soon the highway will also enter the ENC system and simplify the traffic and speed of the charging stations to all those participants whose time makes money, and not break regulations in terms of the speed of movement on highways. But when it comes to the Zagreb-Macelj highway, now a little patriotic locality, there is one more thing to say. The price per km is mentioned which is the highest for all highways in the Republic of Croatia. There is a justification for why it is the most expensive, because it is in the price of maintenance which is recognised by the concessionaire and shares where there is no charge, which is from the Jankomir knot to the payment homes in Zapresic. In fact, there is an inequality of citizens because it means driving that highway you pay and maintaining the part where there is no charge until that is the case on the Ivanja Reka-St. Helena stock. I don't think it should happen in the future and that it would be good if, in a possible and potential correction of the concessionary's contract, it was trying to correct that mistake. Finally another suggestion, it is good that the Croatian roads bring a four-year programme of construction and reconstruction of roads that are in their jurisdiction based on Parliament's decision. I must say that some representatives of public companies are slightly ignoring or demeaning the decisions this House makes and are not important to them. And I therefore call on the Ministry to exercise control over the implementation of these four-year programmes, i.e. to provide for sanctions for those who do not respect this programme because I can tell you that Croatian roads often have an extremely high artistic freedom in the interpretation of the road construction and maintenance programme. I will not say that some times they have a political factor and influence because they are more often others, not politically, at least from my practice of experiencing these procedures. It didn't matter now in this case whether HSS or HDZ was on a particular stock but it was more important that the person on that stock was given priority. Here is another congratulations to all the participants who participated in harmonising these remarks, suggestions and suggestions on the final draft of the law. I also thank the ministry, and I have to thank it, I shouldn't thank it, but in this case, I have to thank it because it's one of the few ministries that are trying to bring these laws into line. And I call for future in everything that follows, and which is not specified by European criteria to continue and co-operation here, not only do I speak as a representative of the SDP and on behalf of the SDP Club but also as a representative of the Association of Cities, but I also believe in the talks that I have held in the Assembly all these days on behalf of all the mayors and mayors sitting and acting as parliamentary representatives in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75591	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, I'd like to invite the club leaders to call MPs and MPs, and we'll have a vote at 12 o'clock, so here we have more than an hour. Otherwise, I don't think it's going to take much of that vote, but we certainly have to be there. Here we go with the debate on this agenda point. It's time for the HSS Club and Ms. Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75592	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with fellow Members, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Peasant Party's club will support the Final Road Law proposal. We think that this solution that is present today contains a series of quality provisions and that for this reason it deserves and support from the club of representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party. It was necessary to regulate and register public roads, the legal status of unclassified roads, to strengthen public road protection provisions, and to comply with the provisions of the Law on local and regional self-government, and to include in the law the provisions of the new directives of the European Union in the field of road safety and electronic toll collection adopted in 2009 and 2010. This Act proposes to designate the unclassified roads as a public good in general use owned by a unit of local self-government in which they are located. Unclassified road cannot be alienated from the ownership of the unit of local self-government, nor can real rights be acquired on it except the right of service and the right to build buildings in accordance with the decisions of the representative body of local and regional self-government provided that this does not affect the smooth movement and maintenance of the unclassified road. Part of the unclassified road intended for pedestrians such as nogostop can be leased in accordance with the rules governing the municipal economy. The management of unclassified roads and financing will continue to be subject to the Law on the municipal economy. This Law, as we have already heard of large cities, leaves the construction and maintenance of the current county and local roads in their territory, and public roads stop being public and become unclassified roads. It's one of the kinds of decentralisation that should certainly be commended. We have heard from previous colleagues that through contacts with representatives of the cities of this provision they have received support. The funds for non-classified roads in the area of large cities and county centres under the means prescribed by the law governing the municipal economy under this Act shall be provided partly from the annual fee for the use of public roads paid in the registration of the vehicle and partly from the compensation for the financing of the construction and maintenance of public roads planned in the state budget for Croatian roads. The county and local roads outside the area of large cities and cities, which are the headquarters of the county run by the County Road Administrations, remain in the jurisdiction. I would like to remind here of the conclusion of the 2008 Croatian Assembly, which concluded that the County Road Administrations will register as d.d. This would ensure the return of VAT to investments of around 150 million kuna. Those funds aren't meaningless. The Croatian Peasant Party has warned several times about the obligation to implement the Croatian Parliament's conclusion. But here I can see that there is no such thing in this bill either, so State Secretary, I ask you to inform us in your final review of what time period this obligation is planned to be carried out, because we are aware, all of us coming from different counties with hundreds of miles and thousands of miles of running the County Road Administrations. With these current financial resources, it's impossible to patch up everything that needs to be patched up, let alone do some more serious reconstructions. For this reason, we think that we need to find a way to make ZUC's funding fairer. It was a matter of amending the rules on fees to be paid on registration. But we are aware of the moment in which we are living today, and that would add to it, of course, to the budget of our citizens, and of course, the part of it will, of course, give up logically. However, the fact is that there are models that have been agreed on, which have been reached in this body and which, in our opinion, should be implemented in order to actually help to improve the maintenance and reconstruction of the county roads. Control and inspection is certainly an integral part of this Law, no less important than the other parts. And it is determined that the Inspection of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is carried out inspection in large cities and cities of county headquarters on unclassified roads which have ceased to be public roads according to this Act. The inspection supervision of other unclassified roads shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on the municipal economy. All public roads built up until the date of entry into force of the new law will be recorded in the cataster and entered in land books on the basis of a geodetic lab which determines the state of play and, of course, on the basis of a decision by the Minister by which the category of public road is determined regardless of the existing registration of ownership in land books. We would also like to commend the provision included in Article 29. It is about maintenance of overpasses, underpasses and other road facilities at intersections. The Act lays down the jurisdiction of an entity managing a multi-group road for the maintenance of overpasses, underpasses and other road facilities at intersections. Since the current state of the buildings built is poor due to years of non-compliance with the law, a transitional period of 5 years for bringing these facilities into the prescribed state is determined. We also commend at the HSS club that this law extends the circle of people with disabilities who can exercise the right to release toll payments and to the category of persons who have been diagnosed with physical damage to their vision of 100%. According to the available data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health from the first half of 2010 the right to release the annual fee for the use of public roads can be achieved by a total of 24334 persons with a determined degree of physical damage, while 8453 persons are now performing it. I also want to ask some questions that we think should be more clearly defined and regulated, and one of them is the question when the electronic toll collection system will be introduced according to Articles 10, 11 and 12 of this Law on the Zagreb – Macelj highway. Also related to Article 27 relating to the maintenance of a public road through a settlement, it is defined that a legal person who manages a public road passing through a settlement does not maintain a system for disposal, public lighting, green areas, guides, supervisors, cycling pedestrians, tramways, or railway lines. We think the parking lot should be listed here along or on a public road. Also, when we talk about Article 33(4), we would like to ask why the adjustment of regular maintenance to a period of 4 years is limited, i.e. you wrote, it can be applied to 4 years. You do not give security to entrepreneurs, because contracts are mostly extended every year, and this is not excessively encouraging. In article 50, the damage of savages, we at the club HSS received a request from the Croatian Hunting Union, we seem to be worth considering. They suggest that article 50. The final proposal of the Roads Act shall be amended, as referred to in paragraph 1 for the damage suffered by third parties to the road due to an attack on game or if the damage is caused by game, shall be liable on the basis of guilt. And in paragraph 2, a legal person who manages a public road, or a concessionary, shall be liable for the damage referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, if the public road is not built, reconstructed and maintained in a way that can safely be used by all road users which are intended, or if, at the request of the person who has ruled... The road is not marked by traffic signalling and equipment according to special regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, this proposal of the Croatian Hunting Union has the basis, because if legal regulations remain as it has been so far, the existence of hunting associations in the Republic of Croatia will be questioned, because, under the current law, a hunting society that is not actually a part of the traffic is being charged with on the run-in of a game vehicle. I would also like to warn in the context of this debate, a particular problem that I think would be worth considering, not only in the Ministry of Transport, but also in order to deal with other competent state services. It is a matter of privatising the Sisak road, because I have to ask here why Sisak-Moslavina County has not delivered 8% of the shares on the Croatian roads by today, as decided by the County Assembly, and it is also not clear to us in the Club of Representatives of the HSS that in 2008 shares were purchased from workers, under the assumption that they wanted to prevent the bags, which would destroy the Sisak road, so the county government, or the county's top glass stake in the roads of Sisak of 55.98% and now announced that the road of Sisak was sold, and that the first nominal value was determined by 8 million kuna, after the Croatian peasant party warned that so much was worth the new machinery that was purchased, and if the land in Ladjar Street, the asphalt base in Petrinja, the Petarica, the Pesarnicarnicarica in Vukojevac, then it is clear that there are some of the obvious here. Namely, it is known to everyone that the Zagreb-Sisak highway is being built, that this stock has come to Lekenik soon, that 650 million kunas have been invested this year alone, and that it is necessary to provide and supply pebble material for the construction of such shares. It is interesting that just when Croatian highways are searching for such material, the county which is therefore in the majority share of Sisak road owners, instead of seeing it as its chance to put the gravel man in office in Vukojevac, and with this money ensures the existence of 200 workers who are employed there, but also enables further development of the Sisak road, the county sells its shares, for a very small nominal amount. Given that this is extremely speculative for us at the HSS Club, I would ask the secretary of state to look back at what I said, and I would also ask the competent services of USKOK and the State's Attorney's office to investigate what is behind the sale of Sisak Roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75593	Thank you. HNS's club, HSU's, Ms. Danica Hursa's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75594	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I will say that the Croatian People's Party Club and the Croatian Party of Retired Party will support the bill, regardless of what we are going through with the two amendments, and this amendment to Articles 50 and 92. Please ask the promoters to look at the proposed amendments, we believe that if adopted, the law will be more precise and clear. In implementing the Law on Public Roads since 2004 through amendments and additions... legal status of public roads, construction and maintenance of public roads, measures to protect public roads and traffic, concessions, management, financing, and supervision and inspection of public roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To date, it has proved more than necessary to regulate issues related to the entry of public roads in land books, of course I repeat again of the utmost importance of entering public roads in land books, managing public roads, or decentralising, and then tightening public road protection provisions, and in an appropriate way installing the provisions of the new European Union directives on road infrastructure security management, and electronic toll collection adopted in 2009 and 2010. I will look back at the part in the law that in the department reviews the necessary means of law enforcement mentions two places the formulation of the most disabled, two places. I don't think the formula used is appropriate, and I suggest that this form is transformed into people with the most difficult form of disability. Because I don't think mentioning the most disabled is appropriate and I think this is a better formulation, so Mr. Secretary of State please think about it and I think it's a more appropriate formulation. In the preparation of the final proposal of the Road Law, the Proposer says, and we have also testified, that he has considered all the comments, proposals and opinions of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, representatives clubs and representatives, associations of cities in the Republic of Croatia which were presented in the debate on the proposal of the Road Law in the first reading. Everything that has been accepted and proposed in this final version of the bill will certainly ensure better quality and more precise solutions. There is more that has been proposed, we believe that this bill may have been entered into, but we also accept the reasons for some proposals that could not be included under this reasoning. I'll look back on what wasn't accepted, and that's what I was talking about in my first reading. The applicant did not accept the remarks of the working bodies and representatives of the Croatian Parliament to extend the right to release from payment of the toll for all persons who have been diagnosed with physical damage of 100%. It is the article 88, which would further burden the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, it's an exact finding, but it's unacceptable as an explanation, at least for us at the HNS-HSU club. Even more based on such reasoning, it can be concluded that by such an approach, the Government makes additional injustice and discriminates against persons with 100% disability, which is both against the law and against the constitution. For small maybe comparisons, but not only comparisons but also constructives, we suggest where to find these funds. I know when that would be, and it would have to apply to all persons with 100% disability, not counting on those who achieve that cumulation I will remind you of some reports by some agencies that have submitted reports this year for even 2009 where it is mentioned that they have spent as much as 750 thousand kunas and are founded for the reasons of the non-existent. You'll know what agency it's about. So, the agency worked without any real reason, that measure that was supposed to have the agency doing business in 2009. And she spent 750 thousand kuna on it. I haven't read anywhere, I haven't heard anything about the agency being suspended or suspended. Here's a way and here's a modus where the funds will be found that will cover at least one part the necessary funds for 100% of the disabled that we would free by paying the toll. In my debate, I will start again a little bit from local issues because I am bound by the inhabitants of my Krapina-Zagorian County. All that I'm going to say again today, and I said in my first reading, I'm going to put it in the form of a parliamentary question because after the first reading, I didn't get any answers, not just as valid or satisfying or negative, none. So I will start again from the Zagreb-Krapina-Macelj highway which, as you all know, represents one of the most significant road routes in the Republic of Croatia, and has not and has not had such treatment in documents that speak of its fate and the effects it has produced. The highway from Oroslavja to Krapina was built so that the state road D1 or better known as the Zagorska highway from Oroslavja to the front of Krapina was installed in one of the new highways Zagreb-Macelj which lost a good alternative highway direction. Once again, I will repeat the highway without a quality alternative road for all categories of vehicles known as the only road, it is a world precedent because the highway must not be an exclusive road in a given area. Because of this fact, it was necessary to create an alternative connecting road between Oroslavje, Zabok and Krapina. That didn't happen. Since 2006, the existing local road that does not meet the needs and is dangerous for traffic has to be used after the introduction of a closed toll collection system on the highway. I won't accept it, and the Zagori don't accept the answer we received in the first reading and the comment that Mr. Cacic said that we can only dream of that interlock road. I ask the question when will the construction of the new Zabok-Krapino road begin? In 2007, we were assured of the start of construction, and today we are colleagues and colleagues in the middle of 2011, and of course nothing happened, so it is to conclude that the Government and the Resolute Ministry are persistently and unjustly bypassing us, we just need to be told loudly why. What is happening and at which stage is the reconstruction of the old Zagorje highway, on the road used almost I would say 100% Zagorki and Zagorac because of the overpriced highway. Here is also today your letter and number written on the Justice Committee that this Zagreb-Macelj section is really part of the highway that has the most expensive toll. Meanwhile, the master's degree was built, hence old Zagorje, 3 circular flows that must reduce the speed of movement to 40km, but due to the unskilled almost whole section, traffic is almost all the way to 60km. And if nothing is done, we will get a very bad and dangerous car walk from Mokrica to Zapresic, which should serve a really large number of Zagorac, as well as Zagreb, because there is an increasing change of employees to those two destinations. The fast roads Oroslavje-Bračak, Marija Bistrica-Popovac with a merger on Breznička Hum by its concept should connect about half of the municipalities and cities of our county and that part which is precisely due to bad or no traffic infrastructure lags behind the development of its numerous potentials in the economy, education, health care. Where it arrived with the first and really short section of the mentioned road from Mokrica to Brač with a knot in Andrasevec. From the beginning of this month at the addresses of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Croatian Roads and our parliamentary representatives from the 3rd constituency received a letter from the mayor of the Zagorje-Krabin County in that letter, according to a proposal for a road maintenance plan in the Krapina-Zagorje County, it is clear to us that only those destinations that are really up are listed. Without quality and emergency solutions in exceptional maintenance there is no development or economy or life in these areas, of course it is clear to everyone. And today from this place I have to ask Minister Calmet again when he'll provide an appointment for me and some mayors and mayors from my county or at least respond to a written request why he doesn't want to do it. The reception request was sent last year, to a situation that I reminded myself of when I first read this Law, in late 2010, and today I have to do it again. Mr. Minister, you are committing a great injustice to a part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, my Zagorje and I remind you that it is illegal and unconstitutional. As I said at the outset, the HNS HSU Club will submit two amendments to this Bill, one will go to Article 50, which talks about hunting sites and the situation and I think it will solve the problem better and more precisely. And on Article 92, I'm going to say a little higher what it's about. This Regulation shall enter The final proposal for a road law refers to the criteria for the allocation of funds to the county road administrations which are identical to the provisions of the existing Public Roads Act. In fact, the existing criteria determine the level of financial resources for the maintenance, reconstruction and construction of county and local roads and the funds are determined by the minister, that the allocation of funds does not satisfy the Krapina-Zagorje County since these funds are not sufficient with the regular revenues of the county road administration for enhanced maintenance or reconstruction, especially not for the construction of new shares of the county and local roads. The area of Krapina-Zagorje County is very specific, since it is the same in most areas that are subject to skating. According to the ZUC data in Krapina-Zagorje County, about 400 rinks are registered, some of which are active and some are potentially active. In the last year alone, more than 20 rinks have been registered for which large financial resources need to be allocated and for which ZUC has no possibility. Since the final draft of the law has remained the same as before, they should be changed in a way that adds another criterion to the specificities of certain areas, such as ours in Krapina-Zagorje, which is a large number of slides, and a specific configuration of the terrain or in Dalmatia dives. Now, in this sense we are submitting this amendment and once again the HNS HSU Club will support this bill proposal because a really big step and effort has been made and we are getting a much better quality law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75595	Thank you. One correction by Ms. Representative Ljubica Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75596	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague incorrectly said that the provisions of this law should apply to 100% of the disabled as you have told your colleagues. The disabled are already persons with disabilities, that's the first thing, and the second thing the provisions of this Act apply to those persons with disabilities when we talk about not paying the toll they apply to. Which means 100% disabled 5. Do you know that today in Croatia we still do not have this except for Croatian wartime military disableds who are listed in this law. That trial art is under way, the way 100% disability will be determined. Only then may we be able to talk about 100% disability and these provisions of this Law have extended the right to blind persons in Article 88, and I think this is the best and most qualitative solution at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75597	Thank you for the individual debate Mr. Representative Niko Rebić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75598	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I must say that in the beginning, it is a quality proposal because from the first reading to the final proposal of the road law it can be concluded that the bill has been significantly improved because the applicant has accepted many opinions and proposals from the clubs of representatives, committees and associations of cities and has properly installed them in the Final Proposal for Road Law. The law regulates the legal status of public roads and unclassified roads, the way in which both are used, the classification of public roads, planning, construction and maintenance, public roads management, concessions, financing and supervision of them. Namely, the Law that was passed in 2004 had several amendments and additions but until the amendments to the 2009 Law, public roads had a legal status of general interest for the Republic of Croatia and resulted in a whole series of problems, and above all I think about the property legal relations created by construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public roads. When the public road has the general good status of the entire property that was being managed to build a public road, it entered the general good regime. What did that mean? As a result, a significant part of the expropriated land was not used for the purposes to which it could be used, regardless of the fact that it did not enter the roadside of the public road. The adoption of this law would take over the regulatory approach of the applicable Public Roads Act on the legal position of public roads, align the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and the new EU directives on road safety and electronic toll collection. Unclassified roads would be arranged to resolve one important issue of enrolment of public and unclassified roads in land books. This law proposes to regulate the unclassified roads as a public good in the general application of the unit of local self-government in the area of which it is located. Unclassified road cannot be alienated from the ownership of units of local self-government or can be acquired real rights other than the right of service and the right to build in accordance with the decision of the representative body of the local self-government unit but provided that this does not affect the smooth movement and maintenance of the unclassified road. Part of it can be leased according to regulations, that's where it's meant to be. The law determines which roads, which makes all the components of the unclassified road, the enrollment of the same ones in land books. The decentralisation of road infrastructure management is carried out in a way that leaves the construction and maintenance of county and local roads in their area that cease to be public and become unclassified roads owned by the city. Under this law, maintenance and construction funds are provided partly from the annual fee for the use of public roads and from the state budget. According to this law, public roads are classified into 4 groups and the proposal is for the entry of an unclassified road which before the entry into force of this law and a new road was brought by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. There's something I'd like to say about the way this law is passed. This may be best spoken of by the representative of the Association of Transporters who supported this draft law on the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Relations. So they had a problem with the first bill, which led them to an unfavourable position in relation to EU carriers. In fact, it was that our carriers at the Schengen border had to spend many hours, so at the same time it made them uncompetitive because their waiting time was counting at the time of driving. And now as these in the EU carriers waited 20 minutes, ours waited 20 hours. And of course that was the problem, which this bill resolved in a way that would keep the existing legislation from the existing law until Croatia enters the EU, and then that part will be taken over. And I think that's what the Proposer had to hear and that's how good and good laws should be passed. I would point out that this is one of the few laws that has been passed in a way that gets quality law. What does that mean? This means that the profession performs and processes its proposal in quality, to conduct an extensive debate with all interested associations, committees, so here is the case with the Association of Cities. So, they all made their remarks and that it's not all happening in one hurry but that there's enough time and the result is this bill of law that I don't think there's a club or a representative in this assembly who won't support it. Thank you very much. I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75599	Thank you. Mr. Representative Milivoy Schwartz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75600	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Final Proposal of the Roads Act. Here are the clubs and so far colleagues in the individual debate all expressed their satisfaction and congratulated the ministry on the effort with all other relevant factors that helped to draft this law and we have a quality solution for roads in the Republic of Croatia. As has been said so far by the law of 2004 when we passed this law we had a large number of amendments and additions in the meantime. It is 6 and we are now passing a new law that will certainly affect the area of road safety by upgrading the legislation. In relation to the first reading in the preparation of the final proposal of the Roads Act, the Proposer considered and took into account a number of solutions, opinions and proposals and thus improved and specified certain provisions. The highways and state roads according to this proposal will remain in the power of the Republic of Croatia and on the management of Croatian highways, Croatian roads and concessionaries. County and local roads outside the area of large cities and cities that are county headquarters remain in the jurisdiction. In addition to harmonising with new EU directives in the field of road safety and electronic toll collection, the bill also complies with the provisions of the Law on Local Regional and Regional Self-Government. amendments and additions to the 2005 law, which stipulates that large cities with more than 35,000 inhabitants and cities of county headquarters in their area can also carry out public road maintenance tasks. But these powers could not be taken over because of a discrepancy with the Law on Public Roads. It is precisely a big novelty of this bill, decentralisation of road management in the area of large cities and cities of county headquarters. Therefore, these cities are left in charge of building and maintaining county and local roads in their territory. These roads stop being public and become unclassified roads owned by the city. The applicant is for this second i.e. the final proposal for a law has complied with certain remarks and proposals and has specified the status of unclassified roads and relations that are related to it. The funds for maintenance, reconstruction and construction of unclassified roads in the area of large cities and county centres under the means prescribed by law governing municipal legislation are partly provided for in the annual fee for the use of public roads paid for in the registration of vehicles, but partly for the financing, construction and maintenance of public roads planned in the state budget for Croatian roads. I hope that this funding will not be too much of the burden of certain county centres that we have to take care of, because especially when we talk about these roads, we bear in mind that individual county centres differ in number of residents who mate in large ranges, which ultimately results in a difference in revenues allocated to the maintenance of these roads and others. Because I have to remind you, my county seat of Krapina, which has 13000 inhabitants, has quite a road, there will probably be some problems, but I hope that the legislator if it comes to that jump. It is good that the proposer has added a new provision for this reading, a new article which prescribes that in the area of large cities and county centres of the road that meet the prescribed criteria remain classified on state roads until the city crossings are built and the conditions for these roads to also be left to the making of cities. So the continuity and roads of the state won't stop, they'll stay on, no matter what goes around the area of the big cities or cities of the county headquarters. The law will also update the issue of public road books in land books, which will also regulate the real state of ownership over public roads. We have already heard that this is in some way one of the most important provisions in this law. The issue of exceptional transport, over-use of public roads, connection and access to public road, public road work, use of road land, closure of public road, marking of traffic signs and other equipment is also regulated. All of these are more stringent measures to protect public roads that will contribute to the preservation of public goods owned by the Republic of Croatia, and thus contribute to preventing the safety of traffic on it. I believe that this bill will remove all obstacles that stood in the way of effective road management and maintenance and will fully fulfil its function. Let me be allowed, given that before each of my colleagues looked back a little on the local part of the problem, and especially was the apostrophe of Krapina-Zagorian County. So I have to say, it's not all as black as it looked from my colleague Mrs. Hursa's appearance because she tried and in certain public acts to say that there's no money for the Krapina-Zagorian County. I am pleased to conclude that the Batterment 2 programme took two of our directions, namely Laz Marija Bistrica and Stara Zagorska, which was mentioned here. I believe that according to the project of the very high level of Stara Zagorska will experience a renaissance in the next few months if this competition that was these days, and the price of 50 million to edit the sequels from Westgate to Zabok is numbered. I think it's pretty much money, and we have to be satisfied on that side. But I would ask the representatives of the ministry to hurry with this competition and the other two roads that have not passed yet, which is the D205 Dubrovcan-Risvica road and the Valentinovo-Petrovsko Krapina road. According to my information, the project documentation is complete and I don't think there's any obstacle, and according to the law that we adopted here in the assembly to get that contest done. For each county is important infrastructure, especially transport infrastructure, and most importantly I would say roads so that I agree that there is the most important infrastructure, which is a fast road. On the fast road there were many words and I would pray, I know the situation that the building permit for the first part of the 5 km from Mokrica or we say from Zabok to Brač, i.e. to Andrasjevec 5.2 km, we know that part of the land works or preparations on the 2.3 km section is almost at the end. All we have to do is go for a ride, blow up that part, it's a total of 5.2 km. It is reportedly a problem of building permit which should be issued these days due to certain consent on the route between the ministry and the Zagreb-Macelj highway, because it enters a space of 60 meters which is not within a restricted road, the Zagreb-Macelj highway, but is in one space that has been attached to them in that contract and now has to give some consent. I think it's on the desk at the ministry and I'm kind of appealing to do it as soon as possible. And normally, in the great development of complete Zagorje, especially the eastern part of the county depends on continuing to build a fast road, which is from Brac towards Zlatar Bistrica, i.e. to finally bring together our largest tourist resorts, which is Marija Bistrica which we particularly care about. There are projects, there's everything, and I think we should work on it specifically. She mentioned a colleague and I must say that it is true Zagreb-Macelj, the problem of including the state road D1 in the highway, but it is not true that nothing is done. I know that the project documentation at a high level of making that replacement route between she said Oroslavje or Mokrica, i.e. Zaboka and Krapina. I believe it will be made to do it in some way until the end. We mentioned one very important matter to the Justice Committee, I have highlighted it, an important thing and this is the introduction of ENC on the Zagreb-Macelj road and I appeal to the Secretary of State. I'm happy with the fact that it's going to be 2012, but so that it doesn't possibly go a long way. Thank you very much. I'll support the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75601	Thank you. At 11.31, it was time to report a ten-minute debate. Mr. Representative Zivko Nenadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75602	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As usual, life does not just write novels, but life also writes laws, among other things, and what is well seen here. Therefore, the Law on Public Roads has not been established by some important issues related to the registration of public roads in land books, road management and public road protection. Also, in line with our desire to install positive European standards, the introduction of road infrastructure security management and the introduction of electronic toll collection. We know that in 2008, the Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to approach the creation of a new Law on Public Roads with special emphasis on decentralisation of Public Roads Management. We also find that the Croatian State Attorney's Office has also warned of open issues of public road registration in land books. Here were more than enough reasons for this new Road Law proposal. The law defines the public road as a public good in a general application on which not only a right can be right, on which only the right of service and the right to build municipal and electricity needs can be exercised. Public roads are classified according to highways, state roads, county and local. And logically, highways and state roads are run by the state and the county and local county county road administrations. In line with the ambition to decentralisation but in accordance with the logic I would say that the most significant change is that the unclassified roads become public good in general use owned by units of local self-government in which they are located. And what is also important is to determine which roads, their entry into land books and specialities in solving property-legal relations in their construction, reconstruction, management and financing of unclassified roads. So it is proposed that large cities, the cities of the county headquarters, assume jurisdiction over the county and local roads in their area, so that they stop being public roads and become unclassified roads owned by these cities. Of course, it is also a major financial obligation for cities, so the law provides that part of the income from the annual fee for the use of public funds that we pay for registration as well as part of the state budget that is planned of course for Croatian roads goes to these cities. Here's all this would be hard to do without the possibility of expropriation, which is also envisaged and prescribed here. I'm glad that in the proposed changes let's say so we extend the circle of people with disabilities who can exercise the right to release toll payments. In this case, damage, 100% visual impairment. This shows an even greater sensitivity of the social government. I also welcome and I am glad that we have less consensus and that all parties in the Croatian Parliament, parliamentary parties accept and support this Law because there is no, I will not say politics, politics is at all. But there's nothing political because we're all road users or as drivers or as travelers or as pedestrians, and of course it's in everyone's interest that the better and the better it works. And so, I support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75603	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75604	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague, I absolutely support your debate, and I'm glad you've made it very clear how glad you are that this law extends the law when it comes to people with disabilities. But I think it takes a little bit of clarification for some of the reasons why I see that many people don't understand how this is exactly the legal solution at this point, best possible and most ideal. When the previous law has made this right even wider, so when it comes to all hundred percent I will say physical damage because it was not disability we must say and we must be aware that there has been a tremendous abuse of this right. I think you've made quite a point that this government is extremely social and it's not enough to be just social. The government and Prime Minister Kosor have to say this, and even at a time when she wasn't prime minister, she showed exceptional sensitivity to people with disabilities, but also justice. That's what's very important. This provision of Article 88 lays down, at this time, the most justly possible way at this time, what persons with disabilities may have the right to be exempt from payment of tolls, which persons with disabilities continue to retain the right to be exempt from payment of public road charges. That's not the same, and that's what's important to point out that we are, here's how this bill of law has just rightly determined which persons should use rightly in accordance with this law. 'Cause let's not forget the car was orthopedically helpful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75605	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75606	Clearly, because of a certain shortness of time, I mentioned, and therefore I am grateful to my colleague Lukačić for explaining this in a little more detail and, of course, agreeing with her replica. I thank you, and I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75607	Ms. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75608	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am in my personal debate to support the bill, but I am obliged to ask some questions that came from the ranks of the profession, from my Krapina-Zagorian County. Therefore, Article 3 states in paragraph 4 that road land can be used for the purpose of carrying out accompanying activities, catering, trade, gas stations and other activities. The use of road land is not mentioned but merely the pursuit of follow-up activities. Does this mean state secretaries that they will no longer be charged with using road land to approach, for example, guest shops, shops, gas stations, etc., which are on private land and have access to the public road. Article 7(7) says the minister, in agreement with the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, and the Minister responsible for Construction, who restricts the use, etc., that I do not read the whole item, it is said so well that this regulation is adopted, but perhaps it would be better if this regulation were adopted by the County Road Administration, County and Local Roads, with the prior consent of the Office of State Administration in a given county or that the regulation was adopted by the Minister, but on a proposal, that is, the opinion of the Croatian Roads and the County Road Administration. Article 20, priority in building and maintaining highways of state, county and local roads, and the need to develop public roads are established by strategy, must be based on spatial, transport, technical, ecological, demographic and otherwise parameters, and says the promoter, i.e. the profession to add the concept of geologically behind the words. Geologically, that's a suggestion. Article 26(2) of the extraordinary maintenance of public roads may be carried out only on the basis of a major or implementing project, he wonders whether this means that, prior to the competition for exceptional maintenance, for example for fences or vertical traffic signalling, they should order the construction of a main or execution project. Article 27 of paragraph 3 initially says this to the well along the public road, the profession says it might be more appropriate to write a pool on a public road or a pool on a public road. Article 52(1), if a connection or access to a state and county road, etc., the applicant, i.e. the profession, says that a local road should be added, or the beginning of this paragraph should be read if the connection or access to a state, county or local road. Article 59(3) speaks on the public road referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article where advertising is not allowed to be set up will be prescribed by the Minister. The applicable law contains that provision, Article 42(3) is now missing. Whether it is a failure or it is deliberately abandoned, in any case the provision should also stand in this new bill. And Article 73(2) of the terms and conditions of use of road land, conditions and procedure of verification and rights and obligations relating to the pursuit of follow-up activities, and again lists hospitality, trade, petrol, etc., does not mention the reuse of road land but merely the pursuit of follow-up activities, whether this same question means that the use of road land will no longer be charged for approach, for inn, shops, gas stations, etc. At the end of my personal exposure, I'm going to tell the next one. The situation in the road infrastructure of Croatia Zagorje is bad, we can paint it with black or gray paint so anyway and my task is as the task of all parliamentary representatives from that county to warn because road infrastructure means economic development, meaning life, and according to all parameters it is visible at which level our Krapina-Zagorje County is based. And another observation, and I personally say that according to this bill, a person with 100 percent disability cannot be divided into categories, people need to be free of toll payments in full, or there are not enough financial resources to be said openly, and we can't handle it. I'm still standing in the position of further discrimination being made in this way and with this proposal in this population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75609	Thank you. We have one replica and one correction. First replica, Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75610	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Danica, I must tell you, I must support you for this last finding of what you have said. In frequent contacts with people with disabilities, and especially with blind people, we have discussed it very often, or they have sued the problem of not being freed from toll payments. As I recall you're in, recently you've actually submitted an amendment that just referred to an extension of the toll release, to this very blind person, but that amendment has been rejected. Here's thank God today in the law it's included, and that's exactly why I welcome it. However, I still believe that this law, that is, this attitude towards people with disabilities, is discriminatory, and against the law and against the constitution. We heard today that the government is sensitive, that this is how the government's sensitivity is seen. Yeah, but I want it to be even more, or I want it to be more sensitive and fairer exactly to people with disabilities. It is also mentioned that before it was wider, or more people with disabilities were involved, and that there were often abuses. However, it is also to be resolved that it is not the faults of those with disabilities who seek it, but it was in fact necessary to control, or punish, those who have abused it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75611	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75612	Thank you very much. Comrade Bonačić, I am grateful to you for the replica and I fully agree with your presentation. In one sentence, I will say that I am sad and deeply concerned that there is no real and true entanglement for this area from those colleagues, or colleagues who should really advocate it. My colleague Lukačić, you have been given this criticism and I am deeply saddened that this is how you try to twist the facts and resolve the matter. That's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75613	Thank you. We have a correction, Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75614	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. President, I can't actually believe it, and I have to correct the incorrect allegations, I wouldn't make it all, but several of them are colleagues of the Hursa. Well, colleagues can't really believe that you don't understand what 100% disability is. So what this law says is 100% disability, and it's not exactly what you said about discrimination being committed. If you don't understand what 100% disability is, come to me. I'll explain. I was given an opportunity like you just said, and I understand this very well, and I wouldn't say it by heart without knowing what I'm saying. Therefore, you incorrectly determined when you were talking about discrimination with the basis of disability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75615	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It's Mr. Agent Luke Denon's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75616	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State with his associates. We have before us a law which, after the second reading, was sent to the final procedure and I think that in these two readings we tried in some way to fix some things in this law, only I regret that some of the key things we talked about on committees, but also in the associations of cities were not accepted and did not enter into this law. I agree that it is a fundamental change in this law that the great cities will now have, be managed and owned by the county and local roads that went through their coverage of local self-government units. However, on the question of how this will be done so that they can enroll in the catastra in this law there is no detailed and real answer. We suggested that in the case of the transfer of these roads to large cities, that, among other things, the width, the length, and I don't know what categories are acceptable to enroll these cities, must certainly put the quality of that road, the standard of that road. Since it will be owned by a large majority of roads that do not meet safety standards and that in their budgets for future maintenance of such roads it would be necessary to install this criterion at that road handover. I am also sorry that this acceptance in the second reading of the final proposal of this law did not respect the comments of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee to define in some other way the construction of the share of the large city and of the county headquarters in means of managing, maintaining and building public roads because we were saying that what life means should still be taken into account. And life is quite different. From that way of funding as it has been so far in the county road administrations that are getting part of the road compensation I think it would be good to take care of some companies having seats in some other counties, some companies have seats in some other cities. But their vehicles spend a whole year and more of their time working naturally in cities where of these road damages because of the traffic that is happening do not receive these funds, they go to other local units. It's not a big problem, that it could also be installed as a criterion to then and those roads that were county roads, but now they'll be in the city's authority to finance themselves in the same way. Also, we asked if it was possible for this way of financing as it is here from one litre of gasoline 1:20 and going to Croatian roads, going for Croatian highways, we asked you to try to find a way, we didn't talk about the figures, we didn't talk about how to do it, about the limes, about the quantity, but to find some way to get a concessionary that is 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is ARZ (Autoposta River-Zagreb), a concessionary who is 100% owned by the Republic to try and otherwise help that concessionary get part of the road maintenance funds that he got on board. I repeat, the concessionaire is not in the same relationship as some other concessionaires since he is 100% owned, since he paid that concession I think if I'm not wrong somewhere around 200m euros, that to get that concession paid by 200m euros he had to raise another 200m euros in credit to complete the Rijeka bypass. In any event, it would be necessary in a different way to treat that concession company. You'll probably tell me in response that then the equality of concession companies is disrupted. We already had that practice in the Republic of Croatia. Remember that... Istria as a concessionaire for that part of the fee they thought they would receive through a half-way payment due to the revolt of the citizens of Istria, the state jumped in, so it gave the concessionary the compensation from the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think a concession company such as the AZR, which because of these loans that have been raised, would be able to pay the concession and that a bypass could be built at the moment, would be burdened with these loans and would not be able to have enough resources for quality maintenance of its roads. I think that should take care of it and put it into the law or at least as a remark. Because in this way they get the certainty that they will receive some of the funds from the RS budget that will be insufficient to maintain such a size of the roads that are in their concession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75617	Thank you. And on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Tomislav Mihotic, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75618	I thank the MPs and the MPs for an extremely high-quality debate and suggestions. Some of the things I call upon those who have analyzed the law to report, so we'll discuss at a professional level the misunderstandings that were shown in the interpretation. But only a few things that were most repeated in the debate would try to answer. As regards the AZM and the price level on the Zagreb-Macelj highway, it was based on a concession contract and compliance with the cost of living, which was not the case with other highways where the state determined i.e. defend the price increase and not allow concessionaires, this was an obligation in the concession contract on the basis of which the price was adjusted and therefore higher than on other highways. As for the road in Krapina-Zagorje County, the old Zagorje highway is being reconstructed on the basis of the concrete, it is qualified, i.e. The performer was awarded during the competition and the reconstruction will take place up to a very high level. As far as skating issues and resources are concerned, it is possible for the rink, i.e. the formulation to correct the existing legal provision, should be stressed that the resources for skating and emergency situations that are allowed on the roads are foreseen in the budget of the Croatian Roads, they amount to 35 million kuna per year, and they focus where the critical situation is on these procedures. As regards the compensation for the connections, it is defined by the rules on the criteria for calculating the compensation for the use of road land and the pursuit of the accompanying activities, thus resulting from this Regulation and will, in the future, be charged and finally, what Mr Denona was saying about the ARZ and regarding its problems, we know the situation in the ARZ and the decision on the contribution of the state which should allow it to come out of this situation as it is, and as far as I have seen in one of the amendments, it is also encouraged to address the problem of the Krk Bridge where the local population freed from payment is not paid all together. Therefore, I think that this moment will be regulated, and that we will finally get the foundation. There you go. Thank you. Another thing about Zagreb-Macelj. The ENC and the introduction of the ENC is within the framework of negotiations on completion of 3.7 km not built on that highway, and in the context of this, the ENC problem will be resolved and according to their guarantees in 2012, we will have every assumption that they will be included in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75619	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide something later. Now we move to the Final Proposal of the Roads Act, there was a second reading, P.Z.E. No. 661. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted an amendment. In accordance with Article 166. The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Who is agreeing to hold the debate on the government amendment, please raise your hand? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? This proposal was unanimously accepted by 109 votes. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the amendment submitted. Tomislav Mihotic, State Secretary. Here you go. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The government of the Republic of Croatia,
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75621	Honored Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, MPs and MPs. The proposed amendment addresses the issue of liability for wildlife damage on the public road on the basis of guilt. Many amendments to clubs have been on the subject, therefore it is regulated in this way and is thus proposed to overcome this situation in connection with the damage caused by savages on public roads. It is also regulated that a legal person who manages a public road, or a concessionary, is responsible for damages on the public road from the attack of savages unless he has designated a public road by means of a traffic signal, as requested by a person who manages the hunting grounds. This is the most fundamental part of this amendment and I am at my disposal if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75622	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Representative Luke Denon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75623	Mr. President. So now we've heard the reason why the amendment amends Article 30. Road law. And in this explanation that we got on the bench, it's also nice to get rid of the amendment, and this law would properly settle the issue of responsibility for the damage from savages. In this contribution that the Ministry must have sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to respect the amendment, we have received, of course, some other papers attached to the amendment. So I'd like to say something else. This in an appropriate way, in order to address the game problem, I will read how the Government of the Republic of Croatia feels about it in an appropriate way. Since we do not know the date of the election, it is obvious that the elections are very close and despite the fact that the date of the election has not been announced, because in the letter of the Croatian Hunting Union, I will literally not read the whole thing: "I believe, given the political moment, that by adopting a law derogating the rights of Croatian hunters could negatively reflect the mood of the same towards the ruling party. For an additional explanation, please, I'm at your disposal. President of the Hunting Union." It is an argument that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is courting itself, advocating itself to one of its electoral bodies because it literally stands here we will return it to you in elections in a different way means to your party. I think it's tragic that in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, such documents can be seen how the Government of the Republic of Croatia works.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75624	Thank you. I am finalising the debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I am giving the amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a vote. Who's to raise your hand please? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Thank you. The result? 75 for, 34 against. A government amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to a statement on the amendments to this table here that have been delivered to you. I would like a representative of the motion secretary of state, Mr Tomislav Mihotic. 1st Amendment of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links to Article 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75625	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75626	This amendment becomes an integral part of the proposal. 2. Amendment of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links to Article 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75627	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75628	It becomes an integral part of the proposal. 3. Amendment of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links to Article 16?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75629	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75630	It's becoming an integral part. 4th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 50?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75631	It is not accepted for a reason because the proposal for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by its own amendment, has, for example, regulated the question of responsibility for the damage to game on the public road.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75632	They're withdrawing the club's amendment. He's retired. Thank you. Amendment 4. 5. HNS and HSU representatives' club on Article 50?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75633	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75634	Here you go, Mrs. Hursa.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75635	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must express my regret that the applicant did not accept the amendment of the HNS Club, HSU which much, much more precisely and more precisely regulates Article 50, or compensation for the damage caused by the savage. In the same direction on the same track was the amendment of colleagues of Hrelje and the club IDS. We're sorry you didn't accept our amendment and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75636	Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Six. The IDS representative's club on Article 50?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75637	It's not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75638	IDS agent club. There's no one here. We vote. Who is to this amendment that the government does not accept. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 7th Representative Silvan Hrelje on the same article?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75639	It is also not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75640	Mr. Silvano Hrelja. He's gone. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 8. Legislative Committee on Article 75?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75641	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75642	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Nine. The HDZ representative's club in Article 90(2)?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75643	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75644	It becomes an integral part of the bill. The 10th representative of Danica Hurse as referred to in Article 92?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75645	It's unacceptable. The proposed additional criterion is already contained in Article 92(1) of subparagraphs 3 and 5 and are regularly applied to the practice of establishing priority needs and the deployment of intervention funds to the county road administrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75646	Mrs. Danica Hursa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75647	Thank you very much. I must again express my regret that the applicant did not accept the entry into this law of a new standard for the evaluation and valorisation of roads. It's especially important in my Krapina-Zagorian county where the rinks are present. 200 are indicated, 20 are active right now. So, in our opinion, I certainly should have entered into the new additional criteria, and I am asking for a vote on amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75648	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11. The HDZ representative's club on Article 96?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75649	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75650	There is an integral part of the bill. 12. Legislative Committee on Article 108?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75651	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75652	It becomes an integral part of the bill. 13. The HDZ representative's club on Article 108?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75653	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-06-17-0.u75654	It becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Roads Act. Let's please get involved and vote on the final proposal with the amendments, of course. The result? This law was adopted by a majority of 96 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 1 against, together with the amendments adopted. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors! Here we continue with the session of this 23rd session with the agenda item - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW TO APPROVAL OF DECISION No. 1/2011 Stabilisation and Association Council between the EU and Croatia of 5/5/2011 amending and supplementing Protocol 4. Under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States from one side and the Republic of Croatia from the other side, in view of the definition of "products of origin" and of the way of administrative cooperation, with the final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 887. This is an emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 887. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. The government has submitted amendments and they become an integral part of the final draft law in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. Mr Ruđer Friganovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Here you go.
