ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79572	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you. Allow in a few short words only. So, the Law on Medical Products this Croatian Assembly adopted in 2008. Years. And in the further process of harmonising Croatian legislation with EU legislation, the need for certain additions to this law concerning Croatia has been demonstrated, therefore, slowly entering the European Union. This Law therefore provides for these additions to be made that, following Croatia's entry into the European Union, there is an obligation in accordance with the Directive on the entry of data on medical products. Therefore, certificates of conformity, distillations, data on entry into the European database. It is also abolished that the medical product can only be placed on the market after the registration of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, but it is not an obstacle to the placing on the market of a medicinal product, and the terms in this law are harmonised. In particular, one of the terms is no longer used by the term dentist that we then explained as proposings because the term dentist is related to doctor medicine while the European doctor of dental medicine is the one who graduated from our university of dentistry. With these changes here we are available for each further query. Yes, a single amendment has been given to the law and the government accepts the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79573	Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. He's the first one to argue on behalf of the MPs' club, no. There's no counseling club. So we have an individual discussion. First Mr. Andrew Hebrang's representative, please come in. Is it on behalf of the club or what? And it's on behalf of the club. That's why I'm looking. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Andri Hebrang, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79574	Thank you very much, Mr. President. An apology for misfulfilled the application, so I would like to say a few words on behalf of the representative club on the amendment of the Medical Products Act before us, which is a significant further step in the safety of the use and transport of medical products that are as important as medicines. Therefore, they must be subject to the same strict rules as medicines, because medical products can also have their adverse effects, and with this Proposer does not only comply with this Act with the Council of Europe's directives, but also contributes to the further safety of these products. The alignment is with several directives between '93. And '98. the year, and because of the coming moment of accession to the European Union, some specifics must be changed, i.e. they must enter into force. I'd only mention a few more important changes. This is a change in the article on registration holders, which is particularly relevant because it is an entry in the register of foreign producers. So far, all producers in the Republic of Croatia who represented foreign producers had to sign up for an eyewitness, and now it changes that item and says that the manufacturer's eyewitness with... in the Republic of Croatia, a legal person established in the Republic of Croatia representing the manufacturer is now being added new to the country based outside the European Union or the European Economic Area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the procedure for all those products already registered in an eyewitness in one of the countries of the European Union or the European Economic Belt is simplified, thus retaining safety but significantly simplifying the administration. It should also be mentioned in Article 4 which refers to which medical products are not subject to this Act. It does not apply to medicinal products, cosmetic products, transplants, etc., and is now extended to those in vitro products produced in an establishment that will be used either directly near that facility. Therefore, administration is made easier again in some ways, but there is still great safety for patients. Article 5 is also amended as regards the collection and use of cells and tissues of human origin. It shall be governed by the Council of Europe Convention and shall be added to what is to be available to the Agency, which data to allow such products to be introduced in the register, and shall also be specified there and added that the entry into the register of the manufacturers of medical products, i.e. the representative of foreign producers, must be introduced except those made by order of certain users. It must also have a certificate of consent, that it must have evidence of the vigillation of medicinal products, clinical trials, etc. Therefore, in some ways safety is strengthened for the user, i.e. the patient. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Which says that medical products can only be placed on the market if they do not endanger the health and safety of persons. An important addition is added here, which is that the instructions must be in Croatian. This ensures understanding of the medical guidance and when it is produced in one of the European Union countries. It should also be noted that Article 8 which states that medical products producers must be entered in the register, and here the minimum period of 15 days is determined and thus the safety of its use is increased again. Articles 26 to 28 governing the conformity of medical products here is added that, on the basis of a reasoned request, the Agency may use the consent of the Minister of Health and those medical products which have not been in the full consent assessment process, or compliance, but only in exceptional situations such as different extraordinary events, epidemics, natural disasters and these, shall ensure that they are made available in such exceptional cases. It may also be mentioned in Article 14 of the new amendments to the law which states that the transport of medicinal products to large extent can be carried out by legal persons based outside the Republic of Croatia, and in the European Union or the European Economic Belt, which, of course, represents an increase in security with less administration. It may also be necessary to mention an even more important amendment to Article 53 of the current Article 18 in the amendments relating to the holder of the entry into the medical product register and to determine that he must establish and maintain his own system of vigelance of medical products, i.e. the alert monitoring of any adverse events that could endanger health or life and collect all such data, evaluate the use of the product, exchange information on adverse events related to the use of medical products and anything else that ensures its quality of use and safety. At the end of the period of entry into force of this law, certain articles shall cease to apply until now, such as Article 31 which speaks of the holder of the registration of medical products in the eyewitness, Article 30 which speaks of the entry of the medicinal product into the market, and Articles 37 and 46 which provide exceptions to the import consent. Finally, these changes and additions not only bring our rules on transport, the placing on the market of medical products, but also increase patient safety and ensure simpler administration. Therefore, on behalf of the club, we suggest that these changes be accepted and complemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79575	Thank you. We have another individual debate, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79576	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So the medicinal product is an instrument, device, device, programme, material and other human use product that does not achieve its primary purpose based on pharmacological, immunological or metabolic properties and which is used alone or in combination with the software support necessary for its correct use. And the medical medicinal product is otherwise intended for diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment, disease mitigation, diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, control, relief... physical damage and deficiency, study, removal or replacement or alterations of anatomic and physiological functions and conception control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So from all of this, it is fully evident how wide the area covers and how important it is, so certainly without medical products it is unimaginable to live, but of course the health care activity is maintained and, therefore, it certainly stands that it is the same since they have, they can cause significant side effects, also have control over it as well as the medicines, according to medical products. Of course, there is therefore the mentioned 2008 law, which is always mentioned in medical products or medicines, therefore the quality and safety of the product, and these are products of particular importance. In this law, therefore, the Directives of the European Union since the 1990s have been partially respected. until '98, and as we are now under way, further harmonisation with EU legislation is under way, so these amendments are already mentioned. It is therefore necessary to mention, therefore, that this Article 4 is complemented, where the provisions of this law do not apply to... medical products produced and used in a health institution, or used in rooms close to the facility, so that they are not transferred by another business entity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is certainly necessary to mention the instructions that need to be pointed out, because we witness many times that these instructions on many products are very small, invisible and so that the instructions in Croatian must be clearly stated. It is safe and the eyewitness is important, therefore it is also a matter of enrolment in the European database for medical products, it is arranged that the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices must have the necessary entry data in the register of the manufacturers of medical products, i.e. representatives of foreign producers. Therefore, the same thing as already said that legal and physical products after the accession of Croatia to the European Union, the physical products made by medical products are mandatory within 15 days of the start of their activities, are required to submit an application for registration in the register of the medical product manufacturer running the Agency. Furthermore, as stated in this article, Article 14 mentions, but it is good to say that the concept of import consent is abolished which allows the transport of medical products and companies whose head office is not in the Republic of Croatia. The same termology is therefore changing in that part, and I believe that this law simplifies in a further way, harmonizes with the European Union and I will personally support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79577	Thank you very much. We have an individual discussion, Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79578	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. On the very trail of what my colleagues have said before, I am adhering to those representatives, or to the HDZ Representatives' Club, who will support this bill, for the reason that medical products are indeed something... Contemporary medicine cannot even imagine, so a colleague was just talking about what it is, and what it represents, so all that is used in medicine and there is no immune, metabolic or pharmacological properties, belongs to medical products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here, it's a very wide diapazone of products that are included, that is used in diagnostics, in treating, easing and pain-relieving, then all orthopaedic and other aids, then in vitro so-called. It produces reagents, instruments, and then products for self-testing and so on. Its most important active medical products that are surgically implanted into the body during operations, etc. What is important about these amendments and the additions to the law? Well, first of all, because they guarantee greater quality, greater safety of use of these products, and then in general and greater quality and even greater safety of health care in the Republic of Croatia. It is very important to mention, therefore, that this bill will give the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices even more power, even more power. And there was no mention here, so now I'm just going to concentrate on this one element because there was no mention of a very important element, so from the safety of medical products it refers to so-called. Vigillation of medical products. What's that? Therefore, the vigillation of medicinal products includes activities related to the collection, assessment, understanding and response to new knowledge of risks arising from the use or use of medicinal products, particularly harmful effects, interactions with other substances or products, contraindications, counterfeiting, reduction of action, malfunctioning and technical failures. So, this whole law and I would say maybe even a set of these laws that are now before us, including that of the Health Quality Act, refers to improving health care in the domain of the quality segment. And exactly the value of health care in one country is increasingly measured by no longer the number of beds, neither do I, the number of patients examined or the number of doctors but the quality of health care. Therefore, as one of the elements of improvement and quality of health care, I support this law along with my colleagues who have spoken here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79579	Thank you. Mrs. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79580	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here we are, of course, from the SDP, to join colleagues who support this law in terms of improving health care, since my discussion is almost identical to what I've heard so far, I would say very briefly that means quality and safe medical products are actually of particular importance to human health protection. Therefore, the applicable laws which have been so far since 2008 have established requirements for medical products, clinical trials, manufacturer’s register entries, conformity assessments, etc. Likewise, such a law has actually begun to bring domestic legislation into line with the EU acquis. However, this now proposed law allows for the further adaptation of domestic legal legislation. Here's a colleague who now spoke in front of me about Article 5, which I actually wanted to highlight, and that's all the data that should actually be given for enrolment in the European database for medical products. Among other things, these are the meanings of the certificate of conformity of medical products, the vigillation of medical products, i.e. the collection of data, i.e. knowledge of harmfulness, contraindications, such as technical failures, if any medical devices, etc. And of course, there should be data on clinical trials, medical products. Of course, this law also regulates the import of medical products, and it is clearly stated in Articles 14 and 15 who can actually import and how. Therefore, if medical products are imported from countries outside the EU, or European economic product, of course such importer is obliged to verify whether such producer has an authorised representative in the EU, or a European economic belt. This legislative proposal also contains solutions to which, after the accession of Croatia, legal and natural persons who produce, or make medical or product preparations or products must actually, at the latest 15 days after the start of their activities, actually submit a request for registration to the Agency’s medical product manufacturer’s register. Here, once again, we support this law precisely because it works to improve the health care and safety of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79581	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Products Act, was an emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 885, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments of the Committee and they became an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Medical Products Act. Let's get involved and vote. Score. This final bill is accepted by most votes, 75 votes for, this is the fact that, I had to, I guess I should have warned myself. 75 votes for, two abstentions and nothing against. ... /The noise in the hall./... Shemso, there's two of us in tandem. (Laughter) But along with the amendments accepted, it was accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79584	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So, during this meeting in 2007 and 2009, this Croatian Parliament adopted a Law on Medicinal Products that is in line with EU directives. What needs to be done now with these amendments and the additions to the law as it was in the previous law, which is to prepare for certain EU rules and regulations to be applied to the Republic of Croatia as well. Thus, these amendments and additions to the law introduce good clinical practice in clinical trials, introduce the obligation to supply data to the European Medicines Agency database, but also for the first time, take place in accordance with the fight against corruption and the exclusion of conflicts of interest in the work of the Agency itself and define conflicts of interest. In particular, two points should be highlighted. One point is so-called. Data exclusion, for those who are less known to be excluded, means that a particular pharmaceutical company that puts its new original medicinal product on the market has the right to keep this product on the market for a certain number of years without making it a generic competition, i.e. an identical drug that is not original. The period was in line with the directive and it was valid for 5 years. In 2005, by amending the directive it was increased to 8 years by applying for an additional indication to be registered within those 8 years when this medicine is used, it is entitled to another 2 years. The Republic of Croatia has requested a transitional period for this part, however, since the transitional period has become from the date of the adoption of the Directive in 2005 to 2009 for all Member States of the European Union, so it also refers to Croatia and considers that since compliance was such that Croatia must also accept this provision on the day of accession. On the other hand, Croatia warned that in the part of the registration of no clinical and clinical trials when the medicinal product is already in use that Croatia should use the right to obtain documentation from this, and that these non-clinical and clinical studies have to say here from extremely high costs and for the pharmaceutical industry, so that there are no problems in respecting the obligation to report or conduct non-clinical and clinical trials, there is a delay in the application of this to the five-year period, so that the procedures that started three years ago and the documentation for medicinal products that have been on the Croatian market for more than 10 years will be harmonised for all of these medicinal products in the period of delay. If there are any further questions, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79585	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, President of the Committee Mr. Andrija Hebrang, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79586	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. The Health and Social Care Committee discussed this Law at its 62nd session as a parent body. The opening argument was tabled by the holder of the proposal, and on this explanation, the applicant's representative explained that amendments and additions are necessary in order to bring domestic legal legislation into line with European Union legislation. The relevant law adopts the provisions of Directive 2001/83 of the European Community, of the European Parliament and of the Council since 2001, which has been a provision on medicinal products for human use that is prescribed that employees of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and experts who assess the medicinal product documentation should act impartially and should not be in conflict of interest. In order to prevent a possible conflict of interest, these persons are required to make a statement once a year on impartiality, i.e. on the absence of a conflict of interest, and this is the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest appointed by the Minister responsible for Health. It is also regulated for the procedure for granting marketing authorisation, the results of non-clinical and clinical trials will not be necessary from the date of entry into the European Union if the applicant can demonstrate that the finished medicinal product is identical to the reference medicine which was given marketing authorisation in the Republic of Croatia or in any of the Member States of the European Union more than 8 years ago. The proposed amendments to the Law also require the provisions of the applicable law to be aligned with Directive 2001/20. The European Parliament and the Council of 2001 on the harmonisation of legislation and other rules of the Member States relating to the application of good practice in conducting clinical trials on medicinal products for human use. This Directive introduces certain data on a clinical trial in a European database conducted by the European Medicines Agency. The Ministry of Health is obliged to provide other data on a reasoned request from any member of the European Union to the European Medicines Agency or the European Commission on a clinical trial. After the discussion, the members of the Committee decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79587	Thank you. An individual debate Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go. Okay, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm sorry, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79588	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, any substance or mixture of substances is intended to treat or prevent human disease and any substance or mixture of substances that can be applied to humans for the purpose of restoring, correcting or adapting physiological functions to pharmacological, immunological or metabolic activity or diagnosis. This substance may be human origin, human blood and human blood products, we will have the same discussion further, animal origin, micro-organisms, animals, parts of the body, animal secretions, toxins, extracts, blood products, plant origin, for example, micro-organisms, plants, plant parts, plant secretions, plant extracts, chemical element, natural chemical substance, chemical product obtained by chemical reaction. So this is all saying how important this is, and how important it is, and how important the drugs are, that I'm not talking about that financial moment if I say that more than 3 billion medicines are being used by the Croatian Health Insurance Office. Furthermore, surely all these medicines can have harmful effects and this is also important to underline here, so that the main moment of safety and quality is standing constantly but of course the legal framework that is needed to regulate this entire area. In this respect, the 2007 Act, which was nominated in 2009 and established the procedure for testing, placing on the market of medicinal products, etc. The same law has in some way installed the 2001 directive on medicinal products for human use, further, in 2004 for traditional herbal medicines. So, as we continue to coordinate our legislation with European Union legislation, these amendments and additions are going in this sense and the first one that is often mentioned in European practice, good clinical practice, this is in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use. The obligation to provide certain data in clinical trials is also introduced in the European database at the European Medicines Agency and is subject to that obligation by the Ministry of Health and Social Care. In particular, a number of times have been repeated at the moment of conflict of interest and, in order to take over the provision of Article 126b of the 2001 Directive, it is prescribed that staff of the Agency for Medicinal Products of Medicine professionals who, in the process of granting authorisation for the placing of a finished medicinal product and transport... documentation... must act impartially and must not be in conflict of interest, this was said by the president of the Committee that they must give a once-a-year statement in this regard and there was a lot of thought about doctors or experts who are doing lectures and one opinion that this should be regulated in a certain way. In particular, the place in this regard as a third thing is the placing on the market of medicines and in that part in accordance with the provisions of Article 15. The legal proposal of the applicant for authorisation for placing the finished medicinal product on the market will not need to be accompanied by the results of non-clinical studies and the results of clinical trials if it can prove that the finished medicinal product is identical to the reference medicinal product to be given marketing authorisation in the Republic of Croatia or from one of the EU countries more than 8 years ago. That's what the secretary of state was talking about both about exclusion and in that part extended, so it was five years ago, and now it's extended to 8 years and plus those other two years. I think in this part that, besides this harmonisation, this law will certainly further improve this important area and, for this reason, the HDZ Representatives Club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79589	Thank you. An individual debate. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79590	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. This is also another one in a series of these to say health laws, health laws that regulate health care and about direct health care and advances, and my support for this bill because, as in the previous law that I was talking about here, it is actually a law that contributes to a certain quality of health care, greater safety and compliance with European standards. Also one of the proposals for a law that can be a good example, I repeat as before, which are EU standards that are good, which are good and that is good that it brings us EU membership. So, despite those things that are also dangerous, perhaps even damage to Croatian society, there is certainly a way to achieve certain standards in all segments of society is the goal of the Croatian state and one of the laws that contributes to that as well. Therefore, the applicable Law on medicinal products has established the procedure for testing, placing on the market, production, labelling, classification, advertising, information, etc. However, this proposed law allows for further adaptation by repeating domestic legal regulations in such a way as to take certain provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. I would now, apart from what we've heard here from colleagues who used to talk, concentrate more on the so-called. Unbiasedness, i.e. to remove conflicts of interest in the procedure of placing the medicinal product on the market or for sale. In this context, in order to take over the provision of Article 126b of Directive 2001, the legislative proposal requires that employees of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and experts who, in the process of granting authorisation for the placing on the market of a finished medicinal product, assess the documentation of the medicinal product to appear impartially and must not be in conflict of interest. In accordance with this legislative proposal, those persons are in conflict of interest when the private interest of a person affects their impartiality in the conduct of the business in the process of granting a finished medicinal product to the market, as it can be reasonably considered that the private interest of a person affects its impartiality. Therefore, the statement of impartiality given to the Committee for the Decision on the Conflict of Interest in this context is of paramount importance because we know how much money is spent in the production of drugs in general and in any case one explicit provision of this kind of legislation with this kind of provision is welcome and a direct contribution is not only to the quality of health care but, above all, to the safety of patients. Soon comes we practically here behind this bill, the Quality Act, and then I'll talk about the quality of health care and social care, then I'll talk about exactly what it means to disobey the rules of the law and to act on medicines, to give medicines and the quality of medicines and to all the consequences resulting from it. Therefore, I tend to colleagues from HDZ who spoke before me, and I give my vote for this bill, which will make a surety contribution to better health care and greater safety of our patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79591	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products, P.Z.E. No. 886, Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Djurdja Adlesic. I would ask the proposing representative to be shown about the amendments tabled, a vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept so far. Let's see, the amendment to article 5 of Ms. Djurđa Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79593	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. We do not accept the amendment for reasons why the proposal does not correspond to the term in the applicable Privacy Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79594	Thank you. Let's see Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic's amendment, commentary.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79595	I'm asking for a vote because I don't understand your explanation. I'm sorry, I'm interested in the fact that the content of this amendment was discussed on the GSV and it was positively expressed, and I'm interested in what happened in the meantime, how did you discover this element that you just mentioned? I don't understand what's happened since.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79596	So it's just the legal nomenclature. Our legal services in the meantime have analyzed your proposal and it's about synchronising terminology. So your proposal does not correspond to the applicable Privacy Act. There are no such formulas in that law and such a law cannot accept this formulation of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79597	We'll decide by voting. That's what you've already said, but here's Mrs. Adlesic, when the government's representative spoke twice, she can do it one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79598	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Looks like we speak different language. I understood for the first time. You've told me exactly the same thing the second time, so I assure you, secretary, that I'm a good listener. I don't understand the content of what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79599	We'll vote and we'll see by raising hands. Who's up for this...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79600	But I'm asking for an explanation...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79601	What? Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79602	So we do not accept this same amendment because the proposal is already contained in Articles 9 and 10 of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79603	Ms. Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79604	I understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79605	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79606	I understand this and I take it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79607	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you, Secretary of State. I'm putting the law to the vote. Please include and vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Drug Act. The result is like this. This law was adopted by most votes, 76 votes for, 1 abstention and nothing against. We move to - Final proposal of the Law on the quality of health care and social care, emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z.E. No. 887 Proposer is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Care. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? Yeah. But first, here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79609	Mr. President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Article 223, and on behalf of 350 workers Đakovština, given the situation that is still in Đakov today and regardless of the meeting that will take place at 13.00 in the Ministry of Agriculture, wanting to meet the Croatian Assembly and all parliamentary representatives with the difficult situation of Đakovština workers, but wanting to meet the entire Croatian public on behalf of the HDSSB club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79610	As I was informed and yesterday you also asked for this to be discussed, however, the chairman rejected it and referred you to the use of that article that determines when and what should be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I am now unable to decide anything else than he decided yesterday to chair those meetings. Therefore, we are now in the middle of the agenda point that I have already read and we will continue, and you will choose to call on an article that allows you to reconsider the chairman's decision whether he acted in accordance with the rules of procedure or not. I can't derivate his decision yesterday, but please use your rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79611	Look, there was no such decision at all, because the Honorable Vice President Shakespeare violated the entire Rules of Procedure by giving me a warning because I was holding a tile like this. Then he took away my word for holding this yellow tile, and since you said it yourself last time, I'm a man who always agrees with my opinion. I am not one of those who often disagrees with my opinion I repeat the request given that you are the one who should respect this Rules of Procedure. It's not a point at all. I explained my request and no matter what the so-called. Legal expert on the Rules of Procedure, Statute and Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Shex, do not make his mistake. I'm asking you on behalf of these 350 workers, because we have the right to a break as a club.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79612	I'm not making any mistakes. I didn't break the Rules of Procedure. I'm acting in accordance with my business powers. You have the right to appeal to Article 209(1), which says: "If the representative is not satisfied with the further explanation, he may request that he submit his opinion to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79613	That's the cadiya suing you, the cadiya judging you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79614	That opinion should already be delivered. The opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall be decided without debate. So you can't in the process of discussing other points of the agenda ask such an ad hoc question that you already asked yesterday and get an adequate answer from the chairman. According to what I said, I suggest you use your business rights and we continue with the session of the Croatian Parliament and the point I have already started.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79615	So you didn't start the act when I asked you between the two points of the club break. In addition, I may be more instructed to appeal to the management of the Master's Department rather than you. So let's be open.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79616	Oh, look.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79617	Let's say this Parliament doesn't care about the fate of 350 people.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79618	No shit, that's not true. It's not a debate, nor is the Parliament...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79619	This problem lasts for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79620	The Parliament didn't discuss it at all, nor did it decide that he was interested or interested in any fate. That's not the way to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79621	Then let us...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79622	I'm showing endless patience over all this and please don't interfere with the work of the Parliament. I answered you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please use your business rights. Let's move on to this point I've already read.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79623	Mr. President to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79624	Please, come on! You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79625	Mr. President, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have the right to take a break on behalf of the HDSSB Club. I'm looking for a break so that we can even continue to attend this session of the Parliament, because there is obviously a double standard here for those who are looking for a break, for those who may be. I would like to remind you that the same vice president, in one hour and ten minutes for the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament, interrupted the work of the session of the Parliament solely because he was Mr Buric who was supposed to speak for the club during the direct transfer. I ask you to listen to the problems of the workers of Đakovština who, if you haven't looked, are in barbed wire.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79626	Look, you set that thing up and you got a response from the chairman in accordance with Article 209. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I direct you to seek your right on the basis of this article and should have already reached the answer because it says here that the Committee is required to respond within 24 hours to your request. You didn't demand, but now you're saying the same thing over and over again. But you got an answer from the chairman whether he's the vice president or president who has all the powers he has, because he's chairing the session. Therefore, he gave you the answer and I ask you to let the Parliament work because we are in the conclusion of the work of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79627	He gave me an answer. He's the chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79628	So write that down. What's hard to ask for?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79629	On the other hand, I'll rephrase my request. Here I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDSSB Club in order to further consult on the final proposal for a health care and care quality law or health care and social care is directly related to these 350 workers of Đakovština, and if we multiply this by an average of 3 family members, you come to 1050 inhabitants of Đakov, Slavonia and Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79630	I am interrupting the session by 10:30 and you will have 5 minutes to contact the Croatian Assembly, and please do not leave in 10 minutes we will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79631	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79632	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. In connection with this item of the agenda on health care and social care, the HDSSB club called for a break, and Mr Vinkovic. Here you go. Five minutes on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79633	I thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, which although you are not an expert on the Rules of Procedure in your words, I thank you on behalf of the HDSSB Club for allowing me to contact the Croatian Parliament, although it is decided by the Rules of Procedure that you must give the club which requested. Here is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Quality of Health Care and Social Care, and the HDSSB Club has no false care for the workers of Đakovština, nor the shed of crocodile tears as it is done yesterday by missing Vice-President of the Assembly Mr. Seks, we are not up to the stand, not to false health care and false social care, but to care for the fate of 350 workers of Đakovština, for 350 families who are currently in a difficult state, among other things thanks to more than 32% of the ownership stake through various funds of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The first request for resolution and maintenance of the meeting and for finding a solution was made on 8.1.2010, therefore not on 8.1.2011, but on 8.1.2010. How long it took the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the minister to understand the seriousness of this situation and to take into account all that was happening in Đakovština, because this is not a problem of stolen grain, it is just a grain of sand in a sandstone that is unwittingly leaking, this is about millions and millions of kunas for which the workers of Đakovština are damaged, but also the state of Croatia. In view of 32% of the ownership stake in the company, and given the two members of the Supervisory Board, the two ladies who received through policy and membership fees on the Supervisory Board, the most responsible is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, along with the management of Đakovština, who brought the company into bankruptcy and who brought the workers into the street. The problem begins even during the conversion and privatisation, when definitely the collapse of the agricultural industrial combination Đakovo and the work is not only the conversion and privatisation in Croatian way, but also the case of war profiting. The state's attorney's office, headed by another Mladen Bajic, has also been informed of all this, and until today, they have not initiated a single procedure to resolve this. What we are looking for, since I have only 5 minutes, we are asking that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Council of the Republic of Croatia, adopt a Law on the compensation of workers Đakovština, in the amount of 30 million kunas from which compensation will be paid to workers, to pay for the severances and to enable such a life, since all of these workers 350 of them, have ceased their rights at the Employment Service, that they have no more opportunities or find new employment, even though the indicators, or the removal of a tire from the Croatian Employment Service, if you do not show up at the course simply delete you from it. I'm not even going to mention this quick-cutting thing over the past year, and I'm not going to mention the suspicious loans that were coming to Djakovština, and they're on the list of suspicious loans, and I'm not going to mention everything that's been going on all these years, because I just don't have time for that. But I ask you as parliamentary representatives, especially those MPs who come from the constituency, I also ask HDZ, as well as the SDP which is obviously not here and is not interested in the problem of Đakovština workers, to ask the Parliament to make a request to the Government to propose a law on the payment of these severances, because this is the only option to save these people and their families. No one else can help them, except the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which bears the highest responsibility. They cannot be helped by God, by city, by county, by themselves, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not do so, and this is an obligation given 32% of the ownership stake. The company's gone, it's gone, but people are alive and they want to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79634	Thank you. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. Well, the first is Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79635	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I would only like to correct one thing, if it were incorrect, which is incorrect in exposing Mr. Vinkovic, which is the most responsible Government of the Republic of Croatia because of the collapse of Đakovština. It's the administration's fault that didn't take care of it and did no business in the spirit of the law. I would also like to say that it is incorrect that the problems can be solved by paying 30 million and that 30 million is a debt for severances, it is also incorrect. There is a real value that is foreseen for severances, which will be discussed today at a meeting in the Ministry of Agriculture, in order to make peace with workers. You don't need to over-inflate. And it is certainly true that you too buy barbed wire and that you make them perform in the square in Djakova.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79636	Thank you. Correction, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79637	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Vinkovic incorrectly said that in this country there was false health care and false social care. That's incorrect. There is also quality protection available in this country, which according to the World Health Organization's standards is high in 30th place. We are also very highly positioned in European frameworks. It is certainly necessary to mention stable hospital budgets. These days we witness successes in transplant medicine, a list of expensive drugs. Not to mention the social concern that the law was passed a short time ago, no rights have been denied and an inclusive addition and other things have yet to be passed. So your claim does not stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79638	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79639	Dear Mr. President, I'd like to ask you to give Mr. Djakic a warning because this is about the lies and the lies and the insult of one representative, since no one bought that barbed wire or did performance from the workers. So I invite him today because I know that HDZ has in the city cinema or the House of Culture Đakovo, the cultural centre, the presentation of an economic programme to walk there to Đakovština and ask them who bought the better wire and why they are in front of that Đakovština. It is not for sure that Zoran Vinkovic is working but for a policy that has kept that administration alive from 2000 to 2003. Management hasn't changed. And even after 2003, until bankruptcy, the same administration remained, only the Supervisory Board changed according to the political key and received fat money for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79640	Thank you. My only foothold is here, I don't know what it'll be worth to me in these discussions, is the Rules of Procedure. And the Rules of Procedure tell the representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure the President gives his word as soon as he asks as I have given it, right. The speech of that representative cannot last longer than one minute, and the representative must immediately state the article of the Rules of Procedure on whose injury is being spoken. So, neither did I know whether Mr. Djakic was right or wrong, that's his claim, and the claim on the claim, I have to trust the representatives. Therefore, there is no reason for me to warn him. And now we have another correction, Mr. Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79641	Thank you very much, Your Honor. It is an incorrect claim that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is guilty of bringing Đakovština workers into this situation. The truths for the workers of Đakovština are majority shareholders along with management. The truth of will is a bankruptcy. There are legal laws in Croatia that must be implemented in the event of bankruptcy. So the Law on protection of claims in the event of bankruptcy of employers, and it is implemented towards these workers. At the Employment Service, workers exercise certain rights. In the bankruptcy process, they report their claims, and until the bankruptcy process is completed they can only settle them. So I can't jump this distance Mr. Vinkovic warns of. It's simply a manipulation of workers. Workers should be told honestly what are all the legal means they can solve, consume and thus satisfy their interests. And secondly, it's a shame that they came out of the union and were self-shooters because if they had stayed in the unions then they would have that legal protection there, and this is how they were put into a situation that individuals because of their narrow political interests are manipulating them the most at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79642	We have two corrections of incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go. ... What about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79643	... Mr. Kunst violated Article 223. – no replica is allowed, and an incorrect quote can be corrected. [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]] But here's the answer, it's a union, and such unions have put workers in this position because they were in line with those who were supposed to buy the company. I call on the government to understand once again the seriousness of the situation and to realize that 32% was responsible for what happened to Đakovština because she gave the green light for the appointment of the administration, made decisions, and eventually politically resolved loans and suspected loans. And the whole time, a false report on the company's business was shown. It's the government's responsibility. Similar to the resolution of the Salonite and the compensation of the Salonite workers who suffer from asbestos. These people are starving, and you have to understand that, and a respected former union president.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79644	Thank you. No injured Article 223a, which states that the exposure of the president or vice president of the Club of Representatives and other club representatives if they are not... No replica is allowed to be corrected to correct an incorrect quote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's Mr. Kunst and he fixed it. Then don't refer to some such articles of the Rules of Procedure. And now he has a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79645	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 209, so Mr. Kunst was talking about what Mr. Vinkovic wasn't talking about at all. And he looked back at the ownership stake, and he didn't mention 32% of the state's ownership stake. Maybe he thinks maybe the state has 25% shares plus 1 so that's 26% of the shares.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79646	It's best that I don't comment any further because I'm taking a little bit of that kind of time too, so now we're done with it. We're going to move to the agenda point I've already started, so I stepped on to Article 159. The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Care. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. What are you looking for a word for, sir? ... Excuse me, Secretary of State, Mr. Vinkovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79647	Look, on behalf of the club, given the overall and comprehensive agenda and the short period of time and the mandate of this House, I have asked this Parliament to reach a conclusion by which it will oblige the Government to pay for the severance and to make such a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79648	Form that conclusion, hand it over in the procedure as the Rules of Procedure foresees so it will
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79649	And that will be discussed by the next assembly of parliaments.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79650	Then we'll put it on the agenda, please. So, formulate, we'll put it here for a vote, and with that we'll figure it out. And, Mr. Secretary of State, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79651	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. On 3 October 2007, the Croatian Parliament passed a health care quality law. At this point, the Law lays down the principles and the system of measures to improve and achieve a comprehensive quality of health care in the Republic of Croatia and is based on this Act as established by the Health Quality and Accreditation Agency. During her work, the Agency for Quality and Accreditation in Health has carried out all the complete preparatory actions for the implementation of the accreditation procedure in the Republic of Croatia, and practical first accreditation based on competitions opened by the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance is already launched under this Act. The accreditation system is a system which logically connects to the system of categorisation in the health system and you are quite informed from the public where in Croatia hospitals are categorized after 30 and a few years for the first time and where categorization of hospitals is therefore given the possibility of developing hospitals in those directions as outlined in health policy and where the accreditation process achieves standards from minimum to optimal standards and works precisely to improve health care in the form of the basic that this health care gives absolute safety to healthcare users. The Social Care Act adopted in May of this year introduces minimum standards of quality and social services as a condition for obtaining a licence for providing services in social care. However, there is also a need to define, in addition to the minimum services, optimal standards of quality of social services, i.e. to introduce accreditations in the activities of the social care system, which would also guarantee equality for social care users, i.e. guarantee equal provision of quality services in social care. You are facing today the Health and Social Care Act, which is in line with secondary sources of the European Union Directive and has been subject and negotiated in Chapter 28. Consumer and public health protection, which enables the Law to continue the work of the Health Quality and Accreditation Agency and the same Agency, given that the Agency is absolutely able to implement this and thus that it has already taken certain initial steps giving it the responsibility to develop and implement accreditation procedures in the social care system. We believe that by introducing accreditation in the social care system in such a way that it will enable the eternal issues to be resolved and to deal with the dilemmas of whether it is necessary in the system to provide only the minimum prescribed so-called standards and services, or, in particular, what is in the social care system and in the state and private sector, rather developed business will allow accreditation to create differences between those who provide their services and who make up the majority but provide in one good and quality way in the social care system from those individuals who, in the welfare system, call for minimum quality, sometimes do not provide even what is worthy of social care users. We have received an amendment from the Committee on Health and Social Care, and in the opening statement, we can say that the amendment is accepted and, if there are any questions, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79652	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Health and Social Care, the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79653	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, at its 62nd session, the Committee discussed this proposal and submitted this amendment as its parent body. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. In the opening statement, the proposaler's representative introduced members of the Committee to the basic reasons for the adoption of this Act. The 2007 health care quality law lays down the principles and system of measures to achieve and improve the overall quality of healthcare in order to ensure and reduce the risk to the lives and health of patients. The Agency for Quality and Accreditation in Health and the prescribed procedure for accreditation of health institutions has been established. The social care law of 2011 introduced minimum standards of quality and control of the provision of social care services. In order to ensure and improve the quality of social care services, the Law prescribes a way of terms and procedures for the holder of social care activities to be accredited. By accreditation procedure, the quality of the work of social service providers will be assessed on the basis of an assessment of the compliance of their work with the optimal quality standards set out in the debate that followed. The proposed Law will set up the Agency for Quality and Accreditation in Health and Social Care, as the legal successor of the Health Quality and Accreditation Agency, the new Agency will carry out the procedure for giving, renewing and abolishing accreditation to healthcare providers and social care providers. Following the discussion, the Committee members unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the proposed law with the following amendment: Amendment 1. In Article 40(3), the sentence "A single member of the Council shall be appointed by the Government on the proposal of the Croatian Medical Chamber and one on the proposal of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers". Reason: The proposed amendment aims to strengthen the influence of professional associations on the selection of members of the Governing Council, so we ask on behalf of the Committee to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79654	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to move forward? There's no application. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNSU Club, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79655	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law on the quality of health care and social care. So the news is that this Law is also involved in social care, it should be said that Article 39 is. The law provides that bodies, agencies, administrative councils, directors and other bodies are in accordance with the Statute. We believe that the Law should accurately regulate which additional bodies are the Agency, i.e. the Statute should develop certain provisions. In this way, it is possible for the Statute to regulate practically more than it is governed or determined by the Law. And the question is raised in Article 40 whether it is really necessary for the administrative board to have so many members. The new Social Care Act 57/2011 introduces minimum standards of quality of social services as a condition for obtaining a social care service license, as well as optimal standards of quality of social services for accreditation of social care operators, improvement and control of the provision of social care services, and monitoring of the quality of social care services. The aim of the final proposal of the Health Safety and Social Care Act is to speed up the implementation of social services in the social care system. However, that is a good intention. However, the proposal of the Health Safety and Social Care Act is just for us at the HNS-HSU club that it is only an attempt to through incomprehensible syntagms on raising the quality of health and social services to remain within the existing frameworks. Above all, it is doubtful that the social care system continues to be linked to the health care system, and this proposal retains the minor role of social care in relation to health care. This proposal also gives further space to the family ministry, intergenerational solidarity and, in some ways, suggests the structure and content of the work of existing ministries of health and social care and family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. The proposal is a logical sequence of the recently adopted Social Care Act, which has brought additional confusion into the system or has not yet been regulated by the system and the least genuine reform of social care. This law will have to be amended by each subsequent government, and then there is no point in adopting this law, which shows by no means how this will be encouraged and the quality of social services. The existing Health Quality and Accreditation Agency should become a new agency probably only because it expands into the field of social care services. There is no indication that the existing agency has significantly increased the quality of services in health since 2007 so far, so there is no guarantee that the new agency will do so even with social care services. The proposal stresses that law enforcement will not require new costs which cannot be true. The number of agency employees due to social care services must be increased. The formation of committees in welfare institutions and other social service providers must surely require additional costs. Therefore, the conclusion of the HNS-HSU Club is that the adoption of this proposal in this form is not necessary because it confirms the existing unsatisfactory situation in the social care system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79656	Thank you. It is the turn of the HDZ Club, Mr Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79657	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. I will take the opportunity here and in a certain way for the crumb for one moment may talk more about the quality of health care but also social care, not only because of the interest of fellow representatives who are now in the assembly and not the interests of those they do not have but also because of the Croatian public at the end that people hear more, understand what a quality of health care is. But I will answer exactly what we heard from Mr. Hrelje when he asked questions at all or questioned the implementation of the current supervision and improvement of the quality of health care. Therefore, my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club will be approximately conceived in a way that I will first and foremost express what it is to be the quality of healthcare, which so far has been undertaken activities related to this, hence including the adoption of the Health Protection Quality Act in the Republic of Croatia, the achievement and establishment of a health quality agency, the implementation of certain procedures in which accreditation enters, etc. And then I'll look back, of course, on this part of the law. Therefore, the founder of science on the quality of health care Avedis Donabedian's quality of health care is the extent in which care is really provided in accordance with the existing available knowledge and generally acceptable principles and practices. And the World Health Organization, about that, says, "The quality of healthcare can be defined as care or services with characteristics that meet specific requirements and that, with the current level of knowledge and available resources, meet expectations for maximum benefits and minimum risks for the health and well-being of patients". Therefore, health care is not by itself the purpose of itself, for it and for the best and best quality health care are interested in everyone in the health care system from medical staff, so from HZZO service providers who pay and finance in a certain way health care, but above all, perhaps so should be, patients for whom it is a health system. Health care in this context of acceptable quality is the one in which services are provided in accordance with available knowledge and accepted practice, the one in which there is safety from non-injuriousness and the one capable of responding to the values and expectations of users. Health care which is in line with available knowledge and accepted practice shall be provided within the previously established standards selected between three groups of elements of care. It is an element of the structure, an element of the implementation and the element of the outcome. And these standards are based on scientific evidence. Reli records based on scientific evidence and scientific literature, and as such reduce the gap between scientific conclusions and clinical practice. Now I'm coming to that segment that we just earlier than colleagues of Hrelja when he said, no, there's no record that the action of this agency has contributed to me not knowing how to improve health care. The improvement of health care is not a moment that happens, but is a constant action, constant monitoring, continuous interference, intervention and continuous improvement. Therefore, there is no approach, can't be seen or seen, so it can't be seen, especially when I bring it out, and later I'll bring out what the agency has been doing so far. However, in order not to be fooled and think that we in health care in the Republic of Croatia have certain problems and then no improvements are seen, I will only quote here that even in the most developed countries in the world, so from the recent literature, I quote these allegations that even the most developed countries in the world have been seen to violate the rules of conduct when it comes to quality health care and certainly social care. For example, even in Swiss clinical hospitals despite established standards, all patients who have myocardial infarction do not receive timely trambolic perphosphia and are not prescribed for all aspirin and beta blockers and... There are then significant variations in U.S. standards regarding the use of warfarin to prevent cellulent in patients with arthrial fibrillation. In Sweden, which should also be our role model, in primary practice, many patients with diabetes do not have satisfactory metabolic control, their feet are not examined, and their protein is not revealed in due time. Thus, the health system requires constant supervision and continuous improvement. In addition to these elements, the failures in the matter of organised health care and quality of health care we meet in health care and with various complications that are not directly due to some mistake, but which in any case require intervention and systematic monitoring, or monitoring. These include, of course, infections, anesthesiological adverse events, etc. So 20% of adverse events are caused by medication errors, and most often, 56% due to poor regulation. The wrong medicinal product or the wrong dose, and then 24% for the use of the product, the administration of an invalid medicinal product or the correct dose of more than 6% of hospitalized patients in the United States, Great Britain, France suffers from errors in this therapy, and 1% of the cases end in a legal outcome. Therefore, even in the most developed systems, the most developed countries are therefore evident and necessary and are doing so and in Croatia will be doing so and continued supervision of health care and quality control as such will be done. In stationary and ambulatory care, adverse events are visible quality markings, so they are valuable as a basis for implementing its improvements. It is important and accurate and to define and establish acceptable thresholds. The crossing of the established threshold warns of the urgent need for involvement in order to improve. What, in fact, is the quality of concern in practice, how is it measured, and by what means? This is really an improvement or improvement of the health condition and the safety of a patient in the health care process within the optimal health care system. To what extent do the measures go wrong in the treatments and the consequences, so because of these complications? One more quote, and then I'm done with it. The lack of quality health care in the United States stands at 8th of the leading causes of mortality. Even in front of car accidents, AIDS and breast cancer. So imagine what this means and imagine what it means not to have a quality control system as such. I would quote one of the founders of modern science about the quality of Mr. Ruben Eldar who, just before the adoption of the Health Quality Act, had one lecture here in Zagreb that said that I literally quote him we do not possess complete data that would show the state of health care quality in Croatia. But I believe there is no reason to assume that there is no problem in Croatia as well as in developed and rich countries. So I find that the decision... Croatian national programme system for improving quality care absolutely necessary and I welcome it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the greatest minds of today who know far more about this problem than many of us who are also dealing with this problem have estimated that Croatia has taken a step forward and welcomed this step. Now let me briefly for the public, but also for the promotion of the facility itself. So, I'm talking about the Health Quality and Accreditation Agency, and I'm briefly showing what the agency has done so far, that is, from what it's done and what we've heard here in the previous debate, whether it's out of ignorance or not, for what reason it won't. So the agency has actually started working since 2009. On the basis of the Health Quality Act, on a proposal from the Agency on the preliminary opinions of the competent chambers, the Minister responsible for Health has adopted a plan, a programme for insurance, promotion, promotion and monitoring of the quality of health care. They proposed to the Minister responsible for Health accreditation standards for hospital health institutions which were adopted in the form of a Regulation on accreditation standards for hospital health institutions. They were gone before that. Thus, no one can dispute that one important element in establishing a quality system in health care. In collaboration with the Croatian Medical Chamber, seminars were organised in the introduction of the system of accreditation of hospital health institutions held in Split, Rijeka, Zagreb and Osijek. The final phase of drawing up a manual on accreditation of hospital health institutions, a manual for self-evaluation of healthcare institution holders, and a regulation on the accreditation procedure of the healthcare operator is under way. The establishment of a mandatory system of quality and safety of healthcare shall be achieved through the mandatory application of the single system of quality of health care standards published in the Regulation on the quality of health care standards and how they are applied. There hasn't been one of these before either. So this came, too, from the establishment of the Health Quality and Accreditation Agency. The final phase of the manual on health care quality standards and how they will be applied is under way, in which clinical quality indicators will be published, the application of which will be mandatory. So if we have no standards, the parameters on which we evaluate the quality of health care, and we know that the quality of healthcare can be measured. Can't someone be that doctor I don't know what specialties, I don't know what qualities to say that works quality. He must demonstrate the credibility of his quality based on evidence. The same applies to health care institutions. Education of educators on accreditation procedures and accreditation standards was conducted in June 2011. At present, we have 17 certified educators who conduct education in hospital health institutions. No one can say that this is not a contribution to the quality of healthcare and that it will not cause it, contribute to better quality health care in the Republic of Croatia. And now maybe the most important thing. Educations on accreditation procedure and accreditation standards were conducted from June to October 2011 at the General Hospital of Zadar, Varazdin, Vukovar, Zabok, Slavonski Brod, Daruvarske spas, Stubic spas, Magdalena, Clinical Hospital "Magdalena", General Hospital Koprivnica, Bjelovar, Merkur, Sibenik, Pula, Crikvenica, Dubrava, Dubrovnik, clinic "Fran Mihaljevic", Gospić, KBC "Sisters of Mercy" and County Hospital Čakovec. The total number of participants in those educations was 527 who were educated in accreditation standards and accreditation procedures. That's not what happened before. So, people first meet that question. I repeat, if you were to ask people in Croatia how they work, they would say quality. Based on what, what is your evidence? They didn't have them. So, accreditation of an institution is an element that implements the agency and will implement it in a way that will actually be an assessment of the credibility of a particular institution in almost the same way, the one where when we come anywhere in the world and we pay for the hotel then of course we pay more at a hotel that has more stars because it has a higher level, higher standards, etc. I have here a whole series of other elements that work for agencies that have achieved that she has become a member of an international society for quality in health care to work and carry out certain other tasks mandatory from this segment. It is very important to note that a tender for accreditation of health institutions in the Republic of Croatia is under way, so where the agency announced that the Health Insurance Fund will be financed by 10 hospitals for accreditation, that 22 reported them. So people have learned what it's worth when it comes to the quality of health care and answer to it and it's very important. The quality of healthcare could be discussed for a long time and time does not allow me, and therefore I will now return again for a very short time and therefore conclude, on this part of the law, or on the Proposal for a Law on the Quality of Health Care and Social Care. All this stuff I've been saying about health care, this ministry, this secretary of state, the HDZ club, is also trying to bring social welfare. How? By setting standards in health care, by monitoring them, by measuring them, by improving them and by constantly improving social care in the Republic of Croatia. One of the instruments to achieve this is the introduction of therefore social care, the activities of social care within the Health Protection Quality Agency and social care. So within the agency itself, the agency continues to do what it has done so far, I would say expands, therefore to the field of social care, in the same way as health care and social care in the Republic of Croatia is organised, because often these two elements intertwine, including with our establishment of the Ministry of Health and Social Care. On behalf of the HDZ Club and in addition to this amendment brought here by Mr. President of our club, we support the adoption of this law, and we estimate that the Proposal for a Law on the Quality of Health Care and Social Care, with the final proposal of the law, will improve, further improve and health and social care in the Republic of Croatia, which is of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79658	Thank you. We have an ID, Mr. Agent Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79659	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would say that there are a lot of good things in this report, so let's understand each other right now, but I would point out something that we all have to take care of together, where the money of the health system is spent, and that, indirectly, it affects less quality. First of all, I think of the unresolved question of collective agreements in health, where the former minister, I think he was still Minister Ljubicic, brought, signed with the unions a collective agreement, and at the same time there was no provision for the payment of obligations which were therefore for employees who were solicited by the collective agreement, huge money in the health system is being spent on, even sent by one letter, here nothing has changed even during this ministry, a letter that the funds were secured through the value of the principal, points, etc., so that what comes to health institutions, as the money that should be to improve health care, the directors of the health institution are forced to spend that part of the money on payment of liabilities that they make out of the collective contract. It is bad, it is harmful and it is noose around the neck of health institutions, and it goes indirectly to the harm of the patients themselves, and the quality of health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79660	Thank you. We also have the HDSSB club, and Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79661	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague and secretary of state, since we are the same professions in medicine, in health care. I'm glad you're here with us today. And thanks once again to President Bebić for allowing our club, or colleague Vinkovic, to take a break in the difficult social situation, and this is somewhat related to this topic. My colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Buric, in his adjudication is actually a small debate, said what, in some segment, health care could be better, which is what, according to a collective contract, execution or non-execution, so that things like that can happen then with the director of a health care institution go to the expense of patients, i.e. health care. I would like something else, if there were much harder and worse things, but first of all, I must commend the Ministry, the Secretary of State and the Health Protection Quality Agency and the accreditation of health institutions, the institution of social care in its work and the effort to finally accredit and categorize health institutions. In doing so, when I talk about the establishment, from which I came to the Croatian Parliament, so General Hospital Josip Benčević, Dr. Josip Benčević in Slavonski Brod, which is by, the B category is second, I really must say that it belongs there and is among those three hospitals that are so categorized in the Republic of Croatia and that it is good. Unfortunately, I guess I no longer have access to that hospital by the board of directors and the chairman of the board of directors, Susana Bilić Vardić, because I was evicted from the post of surgeons as another anesthesiologist. I guess health care is better without one surgeon and an anesthesiologist experienced in the ship's hospital, so I guess Professor Bilic decided to act politically in such a way as to ban me from having any contact with patients. Here you see one of those, one of those things that works on the quality of healthcare is just mixing politics into health care. When I say that, first of all, I mean the local, regional or county structure, the structure of those who care about health care and social care in the county, each individual. Here's an example. In Brod-Posavia County, the head of the Health and Social Care Office is a professor of horticulture, because it is politically similar and belongs to the ruling circle, so that it is the head of a place that is absolutely according to its, every honor of its knowledge in horticulture, it does not belong there. But he's a member of the HSS, to be clear and loud. The president of the Management Council of the hospital in Slavonski Brod is a Croatian language teacher, I guess. The president of the board of directors at home of health seems to me to be a veterinarian, a veteran doctor in the boat. The President of the Emergency Service, Mr. Secretary of State, you've granted her these appointments most likely, and your party, is a graduate lawyer without a year's work experience. Should we talk about names? I don't know, if you want, I can name it. So, such a single political clientism and political action destroys everything that you, your good intentions, good intentions of the agency and not just political. It is clear that, after the influence of politics, what should be improved health care, and these are construction works in homes of health, in hospitals. Well then, at our Ship's Hospital, the shock room or the Anesthesia and Resuscitation Service has been building for two years and operating in unconditional spaces, although the hospital in Slavonski Brod has been highly accredited. Go, Mr. Secretary of State, we can go together to Slavonski Brod, and you'll see on the third floor of the surgery building what rooms, shock rooms, or she's working in unconditional premises on abdominal surgery right now, and for two years now, there's been a number of bumps, not to say maybe crime and other things that, a matter of police and repressive apparatus, are about to determine what's going on in the Brod Hospital, what's happening and how construction works are being shared, and that politics has gone deep into the hospital in Slavonski Brod. And I'm afraid that in other hospitals, too, there is a similar state of mind, so the impact of politics on health and medicine. So then this job of yours is noble, appreciated, of me personally appreciated, and of yours and agencies that have 17 credentials as someone here, Mr. Bagarić, throughout Croatia, therefore comes into question. It's the persuasion of everything, because I'd like to, and therefore this bill is acceptable to the HDSSB, but the implementation itself on the ground is a disaster. Here's an example of quality in health care, the same newly founded as the Emergency Service has an emergency station in the municipality of Vrpolje, here's Mr. Secretary of State, who doesn't work on Saturdays and Sundays. How can an ambulance not work on Saturdays and Sundays? So who is it, what is it? Who will work Saturdays and Sundays but ambulances? And you know why he's in Vrpolje? So because of the highway, crossing the highway VC Corridor and highway A3 Zagreb-Lipovac, not Bajakovo but Lipovac our Lipovac, Srijemski Lipovac. It is precisely where two highways cross, but if there is an accident or an accident that is worse on that part or on the local road to County Osijek-Đakovo-Kopanica The Emergency Service does not work but must go from Slavonski Brod 50 km to pick up, to act, intervene with possibly injured people. You know what it means to waste half an hour on a badly injured patient? You know as a surgeon as well as I do, we both did in war and after. So, every day I get a call from patients so that I can have the authority of a parliamentary representative and a former doctor at the Ship's Hospital after 35 years of training as a doctor and a surgeon to help someone with my personal acquaintance and authority influence the doctor in the eye department to receive him a little sooner or sooner to the time for surgery. I've got a call from Miss Požega to ask her to go to a maximum-surgery specialist's ear, throat, nose, and in our boat, it's expensive to open a tooth's abscess as soon as possible because it's ordered for 15.11. I've got a patient from Dubrovnik calling me if he can get to surgery early on the hip joint in Slavonski Brod because he needs to wait there, don't take this Dubrovnik or I don't know, because he needs to wait two years. Do you remember the health care, perhaps you're younger than me, Mr. Secretary of State, the health care I don't know 20, 30 years ago? I think they were waiting lists less. I don't want anyone to connect me with, thank God my parents were in prison for Croatia to connect me with Yugoslavia, but those who are age remember how it went. Homes for old and powerless – I was asked by one homeowner in Slavonski Brod to get support for the expansion of the home which has an excellent rating in accreditation so that it can expand its business. It cannot, because this activity does not fall within those measures of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it has an excellent home rating and is an excellent home. However, when it comes to the social extent of division and help with wood heating in the County of Brod-Posavina, then the political elite that the government there says has also committed a crime of about 300 thousand kuna that has therefore stolen from the most endangered, of the socially endangered. He's buzzing around the boat to lead a police investigation into it, and the responsible ones who did it to their shame first, not to jail, and the rest should really be ashamed. Maybe some of them sitting here in the Assembly, and they're from Slavonski Brod, maybe they know better than that. Maybe we could have something more to tell us. And in the end, let me say that at the Social Care Center, pensioners, or pensioners, Mr. Secretary of State, you might be able to answer how it's going to work out. Since you're here to take advantage of the opportunity. I get letters from women who turned 60, '51. are a year old, and you can imagine how many of them are in Croatia that are 60 years old, but they can't get their pension, and they've been taken off the Employment Service where they've had a fee of 1600 kuna and now they have to wait 3 or 6 months to get a pension. On the request of colleagues of Mirela Holly to the government of the Republic of Croatia what to do, what to live on or starve to death, or to die of winter because they can't pay for the heating, and winter goes. The answer was to contact the Social Care Centre. And then next year, the women who are in '52. Every year, then they'll wait nine months for their retirement when they're 60 years old. Are you aware of how many new social cases will arrive at the Centre for Social Care, and we boast that we have reduced the unemployment rate because these women will be removed from the employment register, and clearly that we have reduced the unemployment rate because they are not on the unemployment list. What wise tactics of reducing the unemployment rate? What these women are going to do, what they're going to live on if they don't have relatives or someone they can't raise credit for when they have nothing to pawn, when they don't have income, how they're going to repay the loan. I could tell you Mr. Secretary of State from our life in Slavonia and Baranja a lot of things about Srijem, maybe you don't know what's going on here in Zagreb or maybe they're misrepresenting or speaking to you, here's an example of a hospital in Podkrkalje that belongs to 4, 5, 6 villages around here can't receive patients because it has a slow Internet connection, so it sends them to Slavonski boat doctors, so why the infirmary in Podkkraj, clearly that it's a T-HT thing, or whether the ministry also doesn't care that this infirmary for people in Glogovica, Matkovic to small and Dubovic, Slatinik to the upper and lower ones doesn't care that I almost tell those citizens Croatian, Slavonia and Zagreb something else, given the standard of life. In order to allow those citizens to have access to basic health care, in the nearest place possible, it is in the municipal centre itself, which is Podkkkalalje. That problem has been for years, whether it's been solved in the meantime, it's hard for me to talk about it. And the polyclinic in Slavonski brod, I was happy to open up the polyclinic in Gospić the other day, and this magnetic resonance came sooner to Gosponic than to Slavonski brod, so let's not let our God give it a big space, so there's a lot of things that can happen so that there's a magnetic resonance, as a simple standard without which we can no longer be in health, we know you and I, most of it here, but when you look at it rationally, there's a Slavonic ship county on traffic, A3 and 5C corridor and that it deserves both polyclinic and magnetic resonance. But the polyclinic in the Slavonian ship is born as if it were going on a mission, you know, those who are doctors know, just a second, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79662	This is the time to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So we are for this bill but let's take a look at what's going on down there under the quotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79664	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by Ms. Zastava Nedelja Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79665	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would correct the incorrect allegations of Mr. Agent when he says that certain cases, certain people went to welfare centres as social cases. Mr Grubisic, I am indeed raising my voice and this is indeed an incorrect allegation because definitely people who are users of services are also entitled to the title that ensures the first Law on Social Welfare and all other laws, and which the Centre for Social Care and Centres conduct as a public institution must not be a stigmatized person but rather set things up in a way that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in this implementation of its regulatory arrangements or in the jurisdiction of the Social Care Centres in order to protect the existence of every citizen and citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79666	Mrs. Susana Bilić Wardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79667	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleague Grubisic, who attributed such power as I am not aware of, and I do not have it, which is that thanks to my merit, he was expelled from the Brod Hospital. That is incorrect, because it is true that MP Grubisic has a contract to return to work at the hospital, and after the term of office was completed and according to the law he had to transfer his book here to the Croatian Parliament. As far as his question is concerned, the question of his participation in the ship's hospital duty has been answered by the director, has not requested that he be on duty, and therefore is not on duty. so that these structures, which the representative Grubisic is serving, might be better off dealing with them in Brod-Posavina County, whose member of the assembly, and so well talks about the same hospital, I don't know how the hospital, by all categories and criteria, received a very high grade in the health ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79668	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79669	Mr. Vice President, I don't know what article of the Rules of Procedure is something that when a representative is not telling the truth this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79670	You can't do that. You can't say by hurting the Rules of Procedure that he's not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79671	He's lying, that's not nice. If I can't, Mr. Vice President, fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79672	You know very well. You claim one thing, a colleague claims another, an individual debate. Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79673	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In today’s debates, the most common word of quality and security was heard throughout the morning. And in terms of medicines, in terms of medical products, now in relation to all health care, of course, and social protection. I don't believe I'm going to say anything new in that part, but I can certainly join the support of this law because quality is never enough to worry about or never enough speech. So let me repeat some of the things we have heard and that is that the 2007 health care quality law is in force and that are the principles and system of measures to achieve and improve the comprehensive quality of health care in the Republic of Croatia. The Agency for Quality and Accreditation in Health and the prescribed procedure for accreditation of health institutions of companies carrying out health care activities and private health professionals, all for insurance and risk reduction in the lives and health of patients. Finally, it should be mentioned that a tender for accreditation of a health institution is completed. However, as we have adopted in May the Social Care Act, where it is clearly stated which are the main tasks of reforming the social care system but also sets minimum standards of quality of social services as a condition for obtaining a service licence and optimal standards and quality of social services for accreditation of social care operators, improvement and quality control of the provision of social care services and monitoring of the quality of social care care services. Of course, it is necessary to pursue optimal standards, and certainly in that part we need, and from whom we will ask. We will ask social care institutions, religious communities, associations and other legal persons, foster families, natural persons as a professional activity within the family home, counselling or providing home care services. So it may be necessary in this place to mention this help and care in the house, and even in the health care system, the health care system in the house has been getting years of significant results and certainly contribute to the quality of life of those most needed, and it is certainly a major contribution to the quality of health care. But it is also necessary to mention the help and care in the house where here are the units of local self-government contributing and many of the needed in rural areas here are getting here also coming from the county in which it is very high-quality and well-regulated. Quality and, of course, my unit of local self-government in this part contributes and I think it is very important to mention and that in this part it should continue to contribute to health care and better quality social care in our environments, I think it is important to mention it, but of course continue to license, continue and license those who provide services. And licensing is the process of determining compliance with the prescribed conditions and minimum quality standards and providing certain types of social care services provided for those social service providers, and the accreditation process assesses the quality of the work of social service providers based on an assessment of the compliance of their work with the optimal quality standards established which will be relevant to their more favourable position and service price. Now that's very important to mention. I believe that this last word will motivate many to further improve the quality of their work and their services. And surely this law is necessary to bring about, therefore, compliance with European legislation, in particular Chapter 20. Consumer protection, so the agency can continue to work and social care is integrated into this law. In that sense, like I said, I'll support him.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79674	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79675	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have noticed well, and I can confirm it from the field where I come from from Požega-Slavon County, that the reform of the health system and directly and indirectly affects the improved quality of health care. What exactly does this mean for us in Požega-Slavon County, and regarding three existing hospitals, the General County Hospital in Požega, the Hospital in Pakrac and the Special Hospital in Lipik? Here are the data from recent months related to additional investment in hospital facilities to increase service quality. For example, at the General County Hospital in Požega these days, the work on a completely new polyclinic building, which these days and equipment, should be open and put into operation soon. These days also continue equipment and hospitals in Pakrac, which is almost completely renovated after the Homeland War's death. Getting better and better equipped according to the highest standards, which also provides even more quality health services provided by our doctors and medical staff at the hospital in Pakrac. A particularly good story stemming from this reform of the health system is the Special Hospital in Lipik, which, in three years of careful management, has earned and saved 5 million kunas in its account today, which combines with the resources of the Ministry of Health and will be completely completed with those money with 13.5 million kuna reconstructions of the Special Hospital in Lipik, meaning Dom 1 and the Roman Baths, which have suffered the last two facilities in the Homeland War and these days will be the beginning of the works after the joint funds with the Ministry of Health. And all of this would not have been possible if a quality reform of the health system had not been implemented, if all three hospitals had not done business here for the second year, positive and thus by means of their means, they provided even more quality services in the health care sector than they have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79676	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79677	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad my colleague that you've presented these positive examples of health system reform and I'm really glad that these indicators are good from your town, of course, from Lipik, who have suffered so much and I'm really happy about it. And to confirm that fundamental goal at the beginning of the Ministry of Health and Social Care is the first financial consolidation. I come from the middle, too, from Koprivnica-Kristevina County where there are also positive indicators. Over 200 million kunas have been invested in the health system, the hospital functions and watch miracles now those who care about health care these days are their main issue and priority on how to replace the council and how to set up a new administration that would work differently. Here is a confirmation of that approach to a constructive work that is necessary for good and for quality health care and... and not to deal with politics, means to collapse just for the purpose of destroying and showing the muscles. Here's the point of that positive contribution, which is to improve health care, the health system. And I congratulate you on what's in your midst. But we also have a different example where here is simply in some environments trying to show the muscles not to worry about those who need quality and available health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79678	Thank you. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it's almost all said. I would also personally contribute, therefore, to the individual debate on this bill. But I would now look more at the health system in the Republic of Croatia. ... an opportunity to talk about it, but therefore the occasion is also to mention in a certain way what is all the prerequisite of the quality of the health system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand, so we have all those shops that we've arranged here that belong to the so-called. the internal quality control of both those committees and all that is done in hospitals in order not to be followed permanently improved the quality of health care. And it's so-called. This narrow video circle if you can show quality control elements. There's that outside too. We also talked about him and this is the accreditation of health institutions and here in the future and social care institution. However, it must certainly not be forgotten, confused with the mind and the totality of the environment in which the health care works and works. So that's all a country has when it comes to the health system. These are all health institutions, regardless of what level they were on primary, secondary, tertiary, I don't know what level. It's actually a way to educate healthcare professionals. So it's schools. The level of education on them. They're not organized education, doctoral studies, etc. It's all actually a prerequisite for quality health care. Now you see. So how can we measure how we can even measure the health system’s effects? There are three elements. There's no other way. Everyone else can put themselves in... One element is the health condition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what are the effects, the parameters that the health system achieves. And if we look at what effects the health system in the Republic of Croatia achieves, then it belongs safely to the world, amongst the perhaps 25 to 30 best, the most qualitative, especially if it compares how much money is spent in health care, and the effects are achieved. The second element to be followed is pleasure, pleasure to whom? Those who are directly in the healthcare system whether to provide services, whether to receive them. They're patients and they're healthcare professionals. As a rule, there is no country in the world and with best health care when you ask patients if they are satisfied in the rule they will generally respond that they are not fully satisfied because people rightly expect more and ask for more. And that's logical, and it should be sought to increase that satisfaction. On the other hand, however, the satisfaction of healthcare professionals should also be considered. Healthcare professionals in the Republic of Croatia are extremely satisfied when it comes to their March, their engagement and best evidence is actually their product and that is human health. And there no one can dispute their quality. However, they are not satisfied with their salaries and cannot be, nor can the Croatian state be satisfied in a certain way with highly qualified health professionals have relatively, large relatively low wages. And that's actually a matter to deal with and deal with the government, so the government had to reform the health sector. I wouldn't mention here all the elements of that reform as such. However, if it hadn't been for these elements, there would have been no stabilization of the system as it was done and how it was done. And all those shifts that were made to, I don't know, debts and hospitals and total spending in healthcare were, in a certain way, necessary to maintain the system as such. And on this side indeed the Government of the Republic of Croatia has and should have all the pluses on that side because it has made it necessary to maintain the stability of the health system. I remain in that the salaries of healthcare professionals begin from those I do not know either at the level of the middle medical staff to the highest safe compared to what they do and what they give is not satisfactory. And Croatia in its period of entry into the European Union tomorrow will surely achieve some opportunities and must find opportunities for additional funds to make these people pay more. Because whoever has had one experience of staying in Croatian healthcare institutions knows with which mari health care professionals approach, work, give themselves to the most difficult departments and where it is the hardest I would say even with the most love and interest. Now we see. And the third element, to conclude with it, with which to measure the health system is also so-called the so-called health system. financial risks, impacts, etc. The ones we just told you about. Now all that's going on right now and what we're tracking in health care already, here's a certain way we can say for years, now this ministry, the present secretary of state here, wants to bring social welfare. And I think we should all be happy. So we actually need to realize that it's over, the question is why and so far we may not have acted in a certain way when it comes to social care in this way. We can distribute as much as we want to if the best way is this approach or that approach. We can open the question of whether perhaps the agency could be designed to monitor quality only in social care. However, given the rationalisation and need for rationalization, keeping each kuna then there is really no place to create another institution. I think this law is on the trail of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision that in this crisis, difficult economic time, on the economic side, it actually responds with the most impact, and I would say by relatively least means. Because if we already have a Quality Agency in health care, so by adding a segment of social, social and social welfare issues, we're actually going to round up one whole of the system monitoring both in health care and in social care. Since I'm a doctor, I believe that's what other doctors share. We're a little jealous of that health care. We, I want to show actually one here no concern, but in any case I want to point out that in introducing social care to the Agency, let's say for the quality of health care so as not to dull the blade of monitoring the quality of health care in health institutions. I know it won't be like that, but it will also require that new people at the agency, new skills at the agency, and more resources. And I want from here and from this place of course to commend the agency's work at the head with its director Mr. Mittermeier and his colleagues because he managed to develop the network, so to make contacts and interest people on the ground the best indicator I say for this interest, and the type is that there was a tender for accreditation in health, and accreditation is a voluntary procedure, so it is not mandatory in the Republic of Croatia, so the competition reported to the 10 designated hospitals, for 10 hospitals, 22 health institutions reported. So we become more and more aware of quality, we become increasingly aware that quality is not in itself understandable and that it is not understood, it was at a time when Communism should not even ask a question of quality, because who could ask the question of how someone did something during the communist period, quality than what. However, they did not have any arguments or quality indicators, as it was proved that even in the most developed countries of the world quality can only be maintained by monitoring and constantly improving. There is no level of quality that can be satisfied, especially when it comes to health care, because always, always and always can be better. I'm also saying about social welfare. Once again, here I am in an individual debate, supporting my support for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79680	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here comes colleague Bagaric, I fully support your debate. I'll look back on a segment you mentioned, which is a pleasure. So the satisfaction of providing health services, the satisfaction of health care professionals, but also of the user, I think it's of paramount importance. Earlier, a colleague named Milinkovic mentioned health care in the house. I think that providing health care in the house is the future and that it must certainly rise to an even higher level in the Republic of Croatia. Why am I saying this? I think equal provision and social services, so social care services are just as important and important, because I think in many cases this is somehow connected. I will specifically say when it comes to people with disabilities, who we expect are often sick, if they are given adequate medical care in an appropriate way, we can often avoid the hospital, often it is, not often but cheaper and cheaper for the health system, and I think that's the future. At this point, the health care facilities in the house seem to me in some way still unsatisfactory because of salaries that are not so large, but are then dissatisfied and users. We need to raise that healthcare in the house to one level, and I believe that this law will also be one of the preconditions for that to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79682	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79683	I thank you for your replica. I would just perhaps, in answer, extend that thought of yours, that is, open another question and that is the question of approach. So you were talking about access to services as such, and the approach itself is also one of the elements of quality, so you can have a conditional statement that I don't know what quality health care or social care, but if you don't have access to that healthcare, then it can't possibly be quality health care and health care. Croatian society is socially-oriented and the Croatian state is such, it should be, it should remain, and in any case I do not know at all times whether it is privatising this part or that part of the sector, it should always retain one level of control by the state in order to achieve exactly what you say. Because there is no health care institution or any social institution that will actually and, which will ensure the same quality of the care received compared to that, if that is the same, therefore the intervention that is being taken home. Therefore, I fully agree with you, with your replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79684	Mr. Representative Davor Huška.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79685	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bagarić, you have made a great count of how to measure efficiency through the health effect of the satisfaction of patients and employees, and of course the financial impact. I would, however, say a few words about the conditions that should be created that the effect at all could be measured in some way, and I think that in the first place is the editing of a quality health system which I believe we have just achieved in these last two years, and it gives its results. Furthermore there are health institutions, institutions essential conditions of accommodation for patients, for patients, which we have increasingly arranged throughout Croatia. Further equipment of health institutions, which is also followed by the follow-up of European and world standards, and what is most important we have people, we have extraordinary people from those of the lowest employees in healthcare institutions, to medical staff, medical technicians, nurses, to doctors. This proved crucial here I will say again and in that end of the war-torn hospitals in Pacrac and Lipik, where we did not have almost any material conditions for the accommodation of patients, for providing health care, but in the second time, people came to see what kind of staff they were meeting, we had more and more patients, and it basically saved the hospital in Pakrac to survive, it saved the hospital in Lipik to develop, people were ready to come to Lipik hospital and we didn't have a roof on spas, and it was provided quality health care service, health care, precisely because doctors and medical staff were engaged in particular, and I think that this is the most valuable thing that we have in Croatia, and all of what the Ministry of Health is doing today is just one upgrade through the quality organization of the entire health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79686	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79687	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my dear colleague, you've impressed me, because you're not a health care professional, you're not a professional, but in a very nice way you've actually translated what it is to say in the theory of quality health care, and you've practically translated it into one language completely understandable, and lifelike. So you were just talking about that element of the so-called. the structure, so there are three elements that, which affect the quality of health care, it's the structure, it's the implementation, it's the outcome, and each of them has their standards that can be monitored and improved, etc., and that's exactly what you said, so if we don't have health institutions, if we don't have quality doctors, if we don't have quality education, then we can't achieve the effects we want, and that's the extraordinary one, actually here on your end and show it. Therefore, in my debate, I have already highlighted the importance of everything that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does and everything that the Ministry of Health does to ensure the framework, so to speak, to ensure stability within this framework and then within it all possible preconditions that I do not know either good doctors do good services and to the satisfaction of patients. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79688	HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric, 5-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79689	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So we have already stressed in our debate that we support this bill, but in these few minutes I would like to point out a few more life problems that health care professionals face, and what also affects the quality of health care. In fact, it is clear to everyone that, and it is known that health institutions today are doing more or less in the vast majority financially negative business. And there are several generators, so objective reasons for such business. They're non-profit institutions, none of them and they don't expect to do business with any profits, it's not their job, but this negative business has its own causes, but ultimately and consequences to the overall quality. One of the most important generators of this loss is what I had mentioned was the existence of a collective contract in health, and no means of respecting these rights and obligations in the government of the Republic of Croatia, in the competent ministry. The second generator is a multi-year discrepancy of the increase in the entry costs from the price of water, from the price of electricity, from the price of fuel with the value of water, or from the value of the main price. In fact, the latest change in the value of water, i.e. the chieftain, has already happened we have forgotten it when, and we witness every day that prices and fuels grow, that prices of electricity, gas, water and what I said grow. These costs must be settled by health institutions, and they come from the total of the same large funds that health institutions receive. So if this month, I'm going to caricate, I'm going to get a bill for the electricity of 10 thousand kuna, and the next month, 13 thousand kuna for a smaller home of health or so, for larger health institutions, it's even worse, and every month you get the same amount agreed, then it's clear that you're going to be left with less to carry out health care alone when you have to spend a lot more money for a cold drive. And I'd like to make a special point. I'll give you an example, Mr. Secretary of State, I'm glad you're here today and we'll talk to the constituencies about one, it's not just the specificity of emergency medical aid in Osijek-Baranja County, it's probably the other facilities. When it was re-edited to emergency medical care, then it was, until then, we had health care homes. So we had a health care unit contracted, and then we went to a reunion on the direction of the ministry of a single medical emergency. The problem has arisen that when we have unique emergency medical care, but with 6 dislocated checkpoints, so also at the House of Health Beli Manastir, Valpovo, Donji Miholjac, Nasice, Djakovo and Osijek as the sixth city he is not troubled. Until then, you have an ambulance that's organized uniquely, but in those areas when an ambulance comes out on the ground someone has to stay. The Croatian Institute of Health Insurance does not recognise, or pays any nurse or medical technician who must remain physically in that space during the emergency on the ground. You can't lock that door to any patient who'd come looking for an ambulance comes across a locked door. We appeal that, therefore, I am glad that you are here today, we appeal that it affects the Croatian Health Insurance Institute to change that rigid attitude and admit it, it is for 5 of these outcast points of road 4 sisters to cover 24 hours, it is 20 employees. It's for emergency medical care, they finance themselves, you know how much their salary costs a year? Between 2 million and 3 million kunas. And we take it directly from that, from the total emergency medical aid because we can't afford to lock the door and the patient will come, imagine that someone with a child comes and that nurse and the technician inside can provide emergency medical attention, and imagine a disaster for any of us to come and kiss the locked door. So please appeal to that. And the last thing I'm going to say is that there's access to health care. It is one of the fundamental principles on which health care in the Republic of Croatia rests. So, her availability. Let's not let savings bring less environments that you have, today poverty is everywhere, I'm going to give an example to the House of Health of Lower Miholjac, who is on the periphery of our county. It's hard for that grandmother from Krčenik in the last place or from Podravska Moslavina, there's no money to get to Miholjc, let alone Najsic or Osijek, to bring us closer to the patient's specialist consular health care because eventually, if we start treating that patient in time, we'll save the health system. The sooner we start treating the less developed complications, the more expensive it is to treat complications. Then it's a long-term treatment and then it's a question of the outcome. Here, I only wanted through these few examples of therefore the generators of the negative operations of health institutions, the problems with which emergency medical care outside the City of Zagreb meets. You know, it's easy in Zagreb, it's easier in Zagreb. You've got a hospital in every neighborhood, and that ambulance can get a patient to any hospital fast. However, if we have emergency medical care which is distributed in a wide area, then it is not equal to bringing the patient from Djakova to Osijek, especially now and the highway, from the White Manastir to Osijek, time often decides when emergency medical care is also the final outcome, the matter of life and death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79690	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 16 hours with debate on the final proposal of the Social Labour Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79691	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Quality of Health Care and Social Care, the emergency was procedure, P.Z.E. No. 887, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Health and Social Care. During the debate, the proposing representative accepted the amendments of the Committee and did not vote on them because they became an integral part of the final draft law, in accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Quality of Health Care and Social Care. Please, let's get involved and vote. This final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79692	Dear MPs and deputies continue with the afternoon session as announced by point 7. - Final bill on social work activity, second reading, P.Z. No. 752. You received the proposal by mail from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session, the amendments were submitted by the HNSU Club. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79693	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you. Here you can only allow in a few short lines, here is a proposal for a law on the activity of social work, which this Assembly has already discussed in its first reading this year and I want to know that, in accordance with the debate held in the Croatian Parliament, we have complemented this proposal with a clear distinction between competence on the authority of the social worker and social worker of the Master of Social Work which came out of the debate during the first reading in this House. What this Law is about to achieve is to say that for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, it regulates the activity of social work, which means that every user in the social care system, in the system of education, in the justice system, in the health care system that needs social service, in any way now can be convinced that this service will be based on a professional basis and it is now unquestionable as already discussed today, and this is the basic part of the social worker, therefore, this law ensures that social workers, which they deserve and have their own chamber, that the chamber oversees the work of social workers and that social workers get their licenses, thus guaranteeing quality safety and providing services to social system users. I'd be this much now, if there were any questions, I'd thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79694	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Not that I can see. I open the debate, the right to the clubs, on behalf of the HDZ Club, is a respected representative, Sunday's Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79695	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The social work activity is an activity of public interest for Croatia and this legislative proposal can be managed both in working relationship and in private practice. This legal solution also regulates the establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers as an independent and independent professional organisation with the status of a legal person with public authority. Professional development of the profession will ultimately have a positive impact, as we have already heard in the opening statement from the State Secretary to the users of services and their environment. The general objective of general social work is to help and support individuals, groups but also to the community with a purpose of raising the quality of life. Social work is a profession based on humanistic ideals and human rights as defined in international documents. THAT scientific discipline teaches human behavior and human behavior, making it logical to try to improve them. So empower people to promote their well-being. Social work also intervenes in people's interactions with their environment. In particular, the aim of combating human rights violations, inequalities and social injustices, all forms of discrimination and interventions with different levels towards individuals, groups and the common community. There is a very wide scope for the implementation of social work activities, which are social care, health care, science, education, education, justice and until the adoption of this Act in Croatia, this activity has not been regulated legally. Therefore, in April this year, as one of the measures in the strategy of further development of the social care system, this government introduced the adoption of a law governing the conditions for the performance of activities, content and modes of action, standards of education, responsibilities, as well as professional supervision of the work of social workers. The higher education system has also experienced certain changes in the last 10 years and in order to bring the modern standards of higher education in the countries of the European Union closer. That is why there has been a change in the titles, and social workers are persons with completed graduate studies and the calling of the Master of Social Labour, the Master of Social Policy and the completion of the undergraduate study and the calling of the first-graders of social work. This law properly refers to graduate social workers and graduated social workers engineers as well as social workers with higher professional training. All of them are committed to constantly renewing acquired titles and adopting new and skills. With the text that is before us, the Law distinguishes the differences between the social workers and the university's prime minister, as it accurately defines areas in which the activity of social work is carried out. The adoption of this Act will create conditions for a more successful operation of the social work profession in the process of redesigning social care systems and other current social changes. The social work is carried out in the field of social care, education and education, health, justice, family and intergenerational solidarity, civil society, religious and humanitarian communities and as an independent professional activity. So far, social workers have had the opportunity to act through membership in Croatia and its beginnings date back to a distance in 1954, and now there are about 800 members from all areas of activity. The Croatian Association of Social Workers is a member of the International Association of Social Workers founded in 1926, and the European Association is organised as a legal person and numbers 156 thousand 600 members from all parts of Europe. Our ministry data suggests that in 2008, a thousand 250 social workers were employed in the social care system in Croatia. The HDZ Representatives Club considers it necessary to establish a single employee register with regard to types of public action. This is because at this point we do not know exactly what is the total number of social workers employed in the field of health, justice, education and education, internal affairs in units of regional and local self-government, in the private sector, in religious organisations and civil society associations. Furthermore, the HDZ Representatives Club welcomes the provision that the expert who passed the expert exam in his professional preparation in another activity is no longer under the obligation to pass an expert examination in the activities of social care. The HDZ Club also considers a quality solution to professional supervision of social care services by the ministry, and supervision of social worker services is within the competence of the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers. This refers to all activities and private practice, which is extremely important because of possible irregularities such as working on black. It is also good that experts in social care activities are mandatory to be members of the professional chamber. It is also qualitative that social services as professional services that only a social worker can provide are in line with the new Social Care Act that entered into force on 2 June this year. Finally, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this text in the second reading because it guarantees further progress in the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79696	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79697	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So this law is necessary and important because it regulates the field of social work that solves adverse situations in the community whether it is an individual or a group. Social work is a profession that affects social change, solving social problems in human relations, empowering people, and so on, the whole community. It supports the socially endangered, helps and protects vulnerable members of the community. In the field of social work, citizens are increasingly users of social services from year to year. Various forms of assistance for users are provided in 259 social care homes and 80 welfare centres with 24 branches and 11 Social Care Centre Offices in Zagreb. It is particularly important to regulate the level of education and knowledge for all persons who work and operate in the social care system, because in this field of action, the centre of action is human. A person who decides on this human profession should especially be sensitive to the problems of others and has the motivation to help such individuals need to be emotionally stable and motivated toward helping others. A social worker must be well trained to carry out his job in quality and therefore must constantly learn and develop skills in working with social assistance users. It should also be pointed out that there are sometimes unpleasant situations in these professions, as social workers often encounter people in distress who are very frustrated and even unpredictable. These angels suffer so that they can be called social workers, they usually face misery, poverty, misfortune, mourning, all human hardships. Therefore, the number of employees of social workers in Croatia today is insufficient for me and I think it even increases double to not be enough with regard to the number of users of social services. Because of the under-employed social workers often question all the qualities and quality of work that a social worker must satisfy. Although sometimes important humanitarian actions are organised as is certainly to welcome "A Week of Love for Homeless People", this humanitarian action has been organised by the Society of Social Work Students since 1999 before Christmas. The goal is to bring the poorest, most marginal part of the population closer to the traditional value of helping and Christmas spirit. It would not harm social care centres to organise various humanitarian actions that would help socially endangered categories of people, and in particular to carry out such actions at the level of units of local self-government. It is a special occasion to mark International Social Work Day 15. March with a series of humanitarian actions. To welcome the fact that this law also regulates the establishment of a Croatian chamber of social workers as an independent and independent professional organisation, a place where different experiences will be exchanged, a better connection between professions and finding the best solutions to how to deal with the challenges of social conditions in global society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79698	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79699	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Kunst, you mentioned one of the problems in your debate, which is an insufficient number of social workers. I could agree with you here, given that I have long-standing experience in contact with social workers when it comes to people with disabilities, so one of the groups that very often, not to say most often, is using social care services. So, the closest and most closely cooperate with social workers. However, I think this law will help future social workers, so I agree that there should be more employees, but that through lifelong learning to educate themselves to work with such particularly sensitive groups. I don't just think about people with disabilities, but all the other categories of people who are in need, and everything that's doing is making them better involved in the community. I think it is absolutely necessary because today's experiences show that they can specifically tell people with disabilities, that many are not entirely satisfied with the provision of services by their social workers, i.e. by not providing services, in the sense that they give them something, but to guide them on the right path, to guide them where and how to achieve their rights. I therefore believe that this Law will also bring about a better and better solution in order to be satisfied with both social workers and social service users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79700	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79701	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You're actually just a little bit stronger underlining what I've highlighted, because whoever really decides about this job, the job of a social worker, it's a really human interest like I said, and that person needs to be particularly sensitive to the problems of the people he's facing. Because as I said, unfortunately, she only encounters problems and logically that this person must then be particularly educated in how to communicate with such people. Surely there are more employees in this activity, that we can say that then the service should be better quality. That should make sense. Because given the insufficient number of employees sometimes, unfortunately, this quality and this relationship sometimes come into question with these sensitive groups with which social workers, in fact not most often but actually meet constantly in their work. So in any case, I believe that and this law will be the best contribution to improve and educate, and I believe that according to the financial opportunities to hire another additional number of people in this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79702	Thank you. And in the individual debate, the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić is in turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79703	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is another of the more important laws that regulates the important activity and the finding that so far the activity of social work that is of public interest has not been regulated. Also, the conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to passing this Law with its social development strategy, and we are happy that the Government has fulfilled this promise and is passing such an important law and regulates such an important activity. In particular, this activity is also important because social care workers who are involved in social care are involved in both health care and science and justice. I would, since I'm the last one in this debate, and since we have more important laws, I'd like to conclude my presentation next. Since this is a very important activity, we expect the support of all in this assembly. It's inadmissible to say for one of these laws, we don't have the support of everyone. If they are not present for the debate now, they would expect to come and vote for one of these laws. Otherwise, I think another place could be opened for one social worker at least in the House because social workers are involved in social work, and it is a humanistic activity, studying, dealing with human behavior and human relations and with the aim of improving them. I'm not saying I couldn't use a lot of other people, either. But it would especially be helpful for those who actually react to escape in front of all obstacles. And on every occasion they almost behave equally. And I think they're sending a very ugly message to make it look like tomorrow's government that they're going to do when they're dealing with the problem, they're actually reacting to escape. In this case, it would be their turn to be there when this Law is passed and to support this Law. Otherwise, I suggest we do as I suggest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79704	Thank you. Would the proposaler's representative like to conclude a few words? There's no need. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79705	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Activity of Social Work. Second reading, P.Z. No. 752. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HNS representative club, HSU. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Mr Drazen Jurkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care on amendments submitted by HNS, HSU amendment first to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79706	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The applicant does not accept this amendment because the proposed supplement does not comply with the conventions adopted by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79707	Thank you. Since there are no club representatives, we're going to have to vote. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? No one. The amendment was not accepted. We move to Amendment 2 to Article 8 of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79708	Therefore, the promoter also does not accept this amendment for reasons which he considers necessary continuity in education and knowledge-checking, especially in such a sensitive profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79709	Thank you. There's no proposal, so we'll vote. Who is for this HNS amendment, the HSU that the government does not accept? No one. The amendment was not accepted. We are moving to the third amendment to Article 12 of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79710	Therefore, this amendment also does not accept the proposal on the grounds that the proposed Article 12(2) precisely determines where the social work is carried out, and would allow the proposed extension of the activity in such a way that the article no longer has the necessary purpose, since it would cover everything in society that is not the meaning of regulation of social work activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79711	There is no representative of the promoter. I ask that we make a statement about a proposed amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 4 to Article 26 of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79712	Therefore, this amendment is also not accepted because the applicant considers that Article 26. All competences and activities of the Chamber shall be fully covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79713	Thank you. There's no proposal. Who's in favour of this amendment? No one. The amendment was not accepted. I am now giving the final proposal for a bill on social work activities to be voted on. Let's please get involved and vote on the law, the bill. The quorum hasn't changed, so we don't wait for the re-establishment of the system and in order to save time, please vote manually. Who is for the Final Proposal of the Law on Social Labour? Thank you. Against? Restraint? There isn't. The final proposal of this law was adopted unanimously with 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79714	We move to the eighth point of the agenda, which is - The final proposal of the Law on Education and Rehabilitation, second reading, P.Z. No. 755. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Act. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. The amendments were filed by the HNS Club, HSU. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's just a few words. It is, therefore, about another law dealing with the same problem as it was in the previous debate, and this time it is also about education-rehabilitation activity. In the first reading when the law was before you then there were doubts that the educational rehabilitation activity was trying to be classified into these activities, activities where those professional workers were then in the welfare system and that the associations were not for it. It's literally that dictionary. However, in talks that were held after the debate in the Assembly with associations as before, so to associations of educational rehabilitators. They clearly and unanimously supported the adoption of such a law which allowed the creation of a chamber, the introduction of standards into the system of education-rehabilitation activities or what was once called a defectologist and where it would be arranged that in the welfare system educational rehabilitators were professional workers, and unlike the education, health and other systems where they were professional associates. From the debate held in the Croatian Parliament, suggestions and suggestions have been accepted that the responsibility of first-time graduates of education-rehabilitation activities from the Master's Department of Rehabilitation activities that have been done here and here we can say that, if the Croatian Parliament accepts this previous proposal and this proposal today for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, and we can say in previous times two activities finally get their own, so that is to say, thanks to over 3,000 social workers who are working specifically in the Republic of Croatia and over 2 and some thousands of educational rehabilitators who in the Republic of Croatia truly provide with great enthusiasm within their powers of the users who need it. There's so much for now, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79716	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Susana Bilić Vardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79717	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community has considered and examined the Final Proposal for the Law on Education and Rehabilitation activities and will support its adoption. I will also point out that this law, as well as the Social Labour Activity Act, is part of the implementation of a comprehensive reform of the social care system in the Republic of Croatia. At the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we welcome the insistence of the proposings, so the Croatian Government and the Ministry of Health and Social Care, that, in the light of the model of compliance of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union in the field of regulated professions in health care, our country also regulates activities in the welfare system which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. And the activities of educational rehabilitators, former defecologists as an integral part of education, social, health and scientific activities, and the activities of rehabilitation and employment are indisputable from the public interest in the Republic of Croatia. We support and welcome what the draft law as well as this final bill proposal has been done in cooperation with the profession and professional associations, because it is a guarantee of the quality of the law and then its quality of application and implementation. Since education-rehabilitation activity is not regulated at present, which is particularly important because this profession is active in several resolutions and areas of action, and as it has affected the gray market of services of questionable quality, in the interest of improving the profession and activity of the status of employees, and all to the ultimate purpose of the well-being of users of rehabilitation educators, this law needs to be passed, as users of educational and rehabilitation services are children with developmental difficulties and age-old groups of people with disabilities, who have difficulties in social inclusion, resulting from the specific needs of rehabilitation, rehabilitation, education and support in everyday life, regardless of the development, functional or biopsychological origin of the difficulty in functioning. About 5% of the population are people with disabilities who need educational rehabilitation services, continuously throughout their lives, rarely only during early development and education, and in a larger or smaller range of targeted support. Users of consulting psychosocial and educational support services are parents, i.e. guardians, other family members and persons who are professionally and/or related to children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities. Do we know that the assessment I have already stated that 5% of people with disabilities who need educational rehabilitation services in Croatia have graduated somewhere between a thousand 350 and a thousand 500 defectologists of the comparative current profile of the educational rehabilitator in Zagreb, we understand that in the Republic of Croatia there is a lack of these experts who are seen in all areas, from educational and social care, which is currently estimated to be a minimum of 30% of the experts of this profile. So we have data that in 2008 in the social care system, 371 educational rehabilitator was employed, and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports provides information that 148 of these experts were employed in the preschool system. The devastating data also contributes to the fact that the 30-student registration quota has not changed for years, so we at the Croatian Democratic Community club hope that the relocation of the educational and rehabilitation college from Ilica to Borongaj, as well as the debate on this law, will contribute to the hearing of those who decide on the registration quotas, as well as in particular I stress that we will be heard by young people who opt for the choice of profession which is highly deficited and need our society. I therefore state that today's study is also organised as a pre-graduate university and graduate university study, which gives the Master's of Educational Rehabilitation and the university's first grader of educational rehabilitation. The proposal of the Law on Educational Rehabilitation Activity therefore regulates the content and mode of action, the standard of education, the conditions for the exercise of educational and rehabilitation activities, the duty and the professional supervision of the work of magistrates, or university graduates, and the implementation of educational and rehabilitation activities in the Republic of Croatia. The law also states that after completing the education of the Master's degree in Educational Rehabilitation and university graduates are required to train themselves for independent work by determining the traineeship for a year. The traineeship is carried out in health institutions, institutions for education, education and rehabilitation, primary schools, preschools, social care homes and other legal persons providing educational rehabilitation services. All listed legal persons shall be obliged to receive an apprenticeship of the Master's Educational Rehabilitation, according to the criteria set out in the Regulation, with the previous opinion of the Chamber, the Minister responsible for Social Care Affairs. The traineeship of the staff shall be carried out by the magistrates of the educational rehabilitation who performs private practice, who has at least 5 years of working experience in the profession and who shall be empowered by the minister responsible for social care affairs. A professional examination shall be carried out clearly after the traineeship has been carried out before the committee of the Ministry of Social Care. The conditions for performing a traineeship and passing a professional examination do not apply to citizens of the Member States of the European Union, for which it is prescribed that they may carry out educational and rehabilitation activities in the Republic of Croatia, but that they must know the Croatian language at least at the level necessary for uninterrupted and necessary communication with the user of the educational and rehabilitation service. After a professional examination of the masters, i.e. the university's first graders of the educational rehabilitation, will be enrolled in the directory of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators, and in the chamber there will be an authorisation for independent work or licence, proving the professional capacity to carry out the educational and rehabilitation activities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The licence shall be valid for a period of 6 years and shall be renewed under conditions to be determined by the chamber. Therefore, the law also lays down the obligation of permanent professional training by participating in professional seminars, courses and expert meetings, as well as the obligation of the employer to enable professional training to be completed within the scope necessary to renew the authorisation for independent work. The proposal for this law, as well as in the social work activity, prescribes the establishment of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators as well as the obligation to associate educational rehabilitators for the purpose of professional development of profession, promotion, representation and coordination of the interests of educational rehabilitators and supervision of the responsible and legal work of educational rehabilitators. The Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators is an independent professional organisation with the property of a legal person and public powers whose founders are the Ministry of Health and Social Care and the Association of Defectologists of Croatia. The chambers shall be subject to the following public authority: giving, renewing and withdrawing the authorisation for independent work, managing the directory of the magistrates and the directory of the university's first graders of the educational rehabilitation and the directory of the master's directors of the educational rehabilitation who carry out private practice, as well as professional supervision of the work of the magistrates and university graduates of the educational rehabilitation. Finally, since the proposed law fully and uniformly regulates the activities of educational rehabilitators, which is particularly important, I repeat, given that this profession operates in several resolutions and areas of action, which is also a prerequisite for faster and better quality implementation of national social inclusion policies for children with disabilities and persons with disabilities, but also for the promotion of the rights of these citizens of the HDZ club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79718	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the distinguished representative Neda Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Here, as counterpart Bilić Vardić said, the activities of the educational rehabilitationist i.e. The defector as we previously called it is an activity of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia, that they belong to the professional group of workers and the areas of their activities are also education and education, social care, health care. This activity until the adoption of this law as well as social workers has not been legally regulated, so one of the measures in the strategy for the development of social care adopted by this Government in April of this year and the adoption of the Law on the Regulation of this activity through professional chambers, as well as this activity. As we can see, it is therefore important to organise this activity in a unique and complete manner, given that it is operating in several resolutions and areas. It is of particular interest to arrange this activity because, as we also heard, children with developmental difficulties and all age groups, but just all age groups, persons with disabilities and also persons with difficulties in including in the wider social environment. We must also point out once again that about 5% of the total population are persons with disabilities who need educational rehabilitation services throughout their lives, and this is not a small number. The adoption of this law has an effect on faster and better quality application and national social inclusion policies for children with disabilities and persons with disabilities, as well as on progress in the exercise of the rights of these citizens. So, all the rights that other laws guarantee that we don't tax them now. This law will also combat the gray market of services that would be in some way questionable quality and will also encourage private practice, monitor the needs for the staff of certain specialities, and from the previous debate we also noticed that we are holding this shortfall. It will also encourage new services as well as a network of service centres. The differences between the Masters of Educational Rehabilitation and university first-graders have also been developed. The improvement stems from the Social Care Act. So it's a fundamental law that regulates all of this. That an expert who has passed the examination in his professional preparation in another activity does not have to do so anymore. The Social Care Act also gives rise to the obligation to involve, i.e. the membership of professionals in the activity of social care in professional chambers. However, here I will use, I hope not to abuse this pay phone, but I would also have to look back at certain reflections, and in the previous debate of our dear colleague, Mr Bagaric, when he said he was sorry that there are no people present on the other side of this assembly definitely and social workers who, by their own discussions, could contribute to the improvement of this activity. I share an opinion with Mr. Bagaric, even if I say so again, it was a debate under the previous law. But these are the two laws they have, which actually intertwine and assume actually progress and guarantee progress both of which are actually professions in the same activity. What is also to be pointed out and I will allow myself to notice that in no way will the number of more employees of social workers in any activity of social care, health care, justice, units of local and regional self-government, education education, science itself will not be able to do anything by itself by dear colleagues. We need to sensitize the general public, and the Social Care Act, which came into force on 2 June this year, clearly states that each user needs to "work" under quotes, I say "work out" an individual care plan. An individual plan to care for a respected colleague and colleagues means that all experts participate in the team, teamed him with a special emphasis on what our user expects us to do. His participation in his individual care will be a major step forward and a major step towards his involvement in the life of the wider community. So I'm sorry that on the other side of the assembly, I'm going to say, and in a saying here from the SDP, those people who should think the way we think now and at this point are not here to support such important laws. Let us not think when often we can expect certain reactions from our citizens and from the social case, that is not the case. We definitely need to start thinking that the people who are in need and the services of social work, the people who are not disabled, but this particular handicap of theirs should be an inspiration to us, these are the reasons why I will support the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79720	Thank you, we have three replicas. First is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79721	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Klaric, when you mentioned in your discussion of persons with disabilities, then I will briefly look back on this, in Article 3 of this Law, the activities of educational rehabilitators, what they do, most of them refer to children with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities. What is extremely important and what is visible from this Law is that it is finally also the activity of former so-called activities. Today, educational rehabilitationists have taken up one social approach no longer medically as they once did. So, to give these individuals the opportunity in an individual approach that is guaranteed here that those about their health condition, so those who are able to say something. That they have a choice. And when you mention colleagues from the SDP that aren't here today when we're discussing such important laws, I'm going to look back on the fact that they've all recently sworn in their social programme that is the best and most quality that just guarantees this social approach for people with disabilities today when we're talking about them, that's enough proof how important things like this really aren't important to them. I support this Law and believe that it will be extremely important when it comes to children with developmental difficulties and persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79722	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79723	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, colleague Lukacic, I am pleased that you are so warmly supporting the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the life of the wider community. I'll tell you one thing, how much to actually explain that your actual justification and argument that if we're not all going to empower each other that we're going to be talking from the pay phone and behind the harvest microphones because we're not going to do it in action because it's going to be really hypocritical and we're able to implement certain things. I'm going to tell you an example not for reasons to brag but precisely for the reason that I want to back up the fact that if we don't get involved in this Act from all positions, then as such, it won't come to life. A person with disabilities, deafness, who is a young girl, who has legal conditions specifically to be a nurse in an institution for old people can freely establish a working relationship. That's the case I spent, in my home for older and powerless people when a young deaf woman, a single mother, who doesn't have parents yet, got a job, happy and well accepted by her working environment, was also accepted by the people she provides services to, and that's definitely the best way to open the way for people with disabilities to start and realize the quality of life they deserve and behind the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79724	Thank you. Replica's esteemed representative Boris Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79725	Thank you very much. Well, you colleagues have well noticed that it would be good that at this point the representatives of the Kukuriku Coalition are here, because it may be a problem because they are suffering from collective groin disease and perhaps this coalition has been infected by the lead singer and the Kukuriku coalition Milanovic, since he has groovy diseases, this point is just rehabilitating and there it would be good to hear how to treat, I think it would be good to ask whether these sick people will be resuscitating that part of the salary, for this time that will not come to work, and they are paid by Croatian citizens who have low income and barely patched up with the end, and they are paying these sick pins that aren't right now on this point where they might be able to learn how to right through rehabilitation to cure this disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79726	I would like to thank the reply to the replica of the distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79727	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On the other hand, there are fellow Kunsts who should really participate in the adoption of these truly high-quality laws because our citizens and citizens expect us not only to pass a Law that will provide them with support for maintenance, which is such a percentage of the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia, but also to say again with my own efforts and sensitisation towards persons who are in need of social protection needs and in their midst. One of these is also my colleague who definitely also worked at the Social Care Centre, just as in Sibenik, and I am sorry that she has fallen behind in this debate because also behind her local environment, and Sibenik and the County of Sibenik-Kninska could take good steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79728	Thank you. And replicated representative Susana Bilić Vardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79729	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, you said you were sorry, I will tell you, I am not sorry at all and I hope that those who watch this transfer and listen to this debate these two laws, especially those users who are intended for social work services and educational rehabilitation activities, will be able to recognize and value this absence from the assembly. But that's not why I answered, I answered for your debate because I wanted to tell you about the chamber itself, the register and the directory that in both laws, and especially about the educational rehabilitators that for the first time, we will see how many of these experts we have. It's not just a lack of educational rehabilitators in social care and preschool education. The promoter told us that the lack was expressed in the regional centres of Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka, however, an example of my town of Slavonski Brod and a school for children with developmental difficulties where the years-old, hence the long-standing shortcomings of these experts, who, when this law comes into force, are being trained in education and education to solve and bridge unprofessional, therefore unquality replacements. In that sense, I will also use this replica to invite young people to attend this university because there are jobs for these experts in our country. And I welcome the establishment of a chamber that will also contribute professionally to a better position of this activity in the field of social care.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79730	Thank you. Reply to the replica, distinguished representative Neda Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79731	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague Bilić Vardić, I agree with you. We have few of those experts. But what I would personally put into priority is love for that job. Twice, it is not by chance our Secretary of State, Mr. Ante Zvonimir Golem, pointed out that this is an extremely humane activity, extremely this is a colleague and colleague of the true bloody business. The job of a social worker is an extremely human job, a job that looks for the whole man. And without that love for the job, we definitely won't be able to hold out for long. And the people who endure and do their entire working life and get a pension in this activity, I think they're actually big and they've confirmed themselves as great lovers. On the other hand, I share your opinion that we really need to gather into one unique register of all those people who work in other dams, and not only in social care activities, because by connecting them all in one place, we are going to come to what we are now talking about a unique and complete solution in the legislative framework, and we are also going to do this strategy for further development of social care not only through transparency, it's transparent, it's being brought to an end and it's being implemented and ended in the day-to-day operational life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79732	Thank you. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79733	I support this bill. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79734	Thank you very much. Does the Proposer want a representative? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the necessary conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79735	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Educational Rehabilitation Activity. That was the second reading. P.Z. No. 755. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HNS representative club, HSU. I ask the motionary's representative to show himself about this proposal. Mr. Jurkovic, who is State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Amendment one to Article 24.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79736	I would like to thank Mr. President, Your Honor. Therefore, the amendment to Article 24(1), where it is proposed to delete the provisions and to determine and implement disciplinary procedures, is not acceptable because it is precisely monitoring and implementing the procedures that is one of the basic public powers of the Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators alone, would be suspended for public authority which other chambers in the Republic of Croatia have and implement in their professions.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79737	Thank you. There are no representatives of the club, so it can't even be declared. That is why I put this proposal to a vote, this amendment, in fact, to a vote that the government does not accept. Who's for this amendment please raise your hand? Who's for the HNS amendment, please raise your hand. If someone got confused, could they fix it? No one. No such amendment has been accepted. Please yes, we will now vote on the final draft law on educational and rehabilitation activities. Please, let's get involved and vote on the law. Let's turn ourselves on because the system's working. The result? This final bill was adopted by a majority of 76 votes in favour, 1 abstention and nothing against.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79738	Moving to point 9. - Final bill amending and supplementing the Blood and Blood Products Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 892 Proposer Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Ante Zvonimir Golem, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79739	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore a matter of amending and supplementing the Law on Blood and Blood Products where the proposed amendments are absolutely in our EU accession process direct transposition of the Directive. And let me just say that since it's a little bit of a nomotechnical dictionary, it always seems a little vague to explain what it's really about. There are transfusion activities in the Republic of Croatia in 9 centres that are divided into two activities, one is collection, analysis, blood treatment and blood preparations. And another activity is the very activity of transfusion medicine. These two activities as such, regardless of what takes place in the united area, are separate activities and fall under special arrangements. Since the Croatian state has decided to develop a transboundary service on equal availability of all citizens and also on the basis of voluntary donation of blood as one of the largest humanitarian gestures, so in negotiations with the EU, we have shown in such a way that we believe it is necessary to maintain these transfusion centres and that we need our tradition to continue in that part. What is clear from the whole part of the European Commission and by the European directives has been indicated that there must be a central body in Croatia, a body that will control the production of all blood preparations, blood testing, and we have assigned this role to the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine in a law that this House has already voted. What we are now offering with this proposal is that the Institute will control through the responsible person in the production of blood in these 9 centres in the Republic of Croatia, meaning Zagreb, Osijek, Split, Rijeka and other smaller centres such as Dubrovnik, where we are crucial in collecting and distributing blood as such. So that the institute would not be in conflict of interest, because at the same time as it controls, it has been responsible for collecting all the information on the side effects that may occur when blood from transfusions is administered, so the register of all the events that may occur from the Institute of Transfect Medicine is moved to the Ministry of Health and Social Care. I would like for further discussion, here I am open to all questions, but Mr. Vice President, allow me, since this is one of the last proposals in this session of the Assembly which, on behalf of the promoter, I suggest that I thank all of you for your extraordinary cooperation and help her in the last 8 years how much I've been doing the duty of the Secretary of State for Health and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, I've had many occasions and beautiful and ugly moments to spend and I can say that I've had great, great support from you too, so I thank you all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79740	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Not that I can see. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79741	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, under the concept of blood within the meaning of this law, blood is taken from donors and for further transfusion treatment and therefore further processing. And it's very important here, so to mention the donors again because with special respect to that group of people here for years I've been in this business with respect and I welcome them from this place wherever they are because they really deserve it. And it is necessary to say that we have blood donations at a very high level, although there are certain differences between counties. Otherwise 4% is somehow at the level of the Republic of Croatia, but there is also a county here where there is much more than 8% and that this is extremely important. Of course there's a transfusiology that's there, so the clinical discipline that might be a little bit is I'd say neglected many times. But when the summer time comes and the need for blood and blood products is needed, many remember. And that part of transplant medicine, and it is primarily necessary to remind these days here and in transplant medicine how great the results have been achieved, and of course in this part we are also at an enviable level although blood needs are increasing every day. Of course there are certain risks in the transfusion process. It is indisputable both from and from the donor, but of course also in processing etc. So, what was Mr. Secretary of State talking about? But in order not to be for donors, in order not to be at risk, it should always be mentioned that there, before each giving is done, is the procedure from that general examination. There are also useful pages in that section from the general examination to testing on HIV, hepatitis, and in any case we have many times witnessed that many such people are here and there is a health thing being discovered. But of course, it's always better if it doesn't happen. It is certainly necessary to say that this must also be regulated legally and regulated by the 2006 law, which states, which regulates the supply of the population of the Republic of Croatia with blood and blood products covering a system of social common measures, activities in the field of planning, collection, and blood tests, and production, storage and distribution of blood products. That law therefore complied with certain provisions of the European Union Directive 2002. That therefore determines the quality and safety standards for the collection, testing, processing, storage and transport of human blood, the blood components amending and supplementing the Directive 2001/80. Right? Furthermore, we are under way, therefore, to further comply with the legislation of the European Union, and in that sense this Law is also. And therefore, this Law takes certain decisions in the 2004 Directive and refers to certain technical requirements, and as I said it was, therefore, it was also in some way a criterion for closing this Chapter 28. And we've heard that, that these two parts of the collection and distribution are separated, and in that part are, therefore, certain changes, and we've also heard that certain harmful moments happen. And in this sense, so far proposed, the Institute of Transfect Medicine has had the main word I would say in this job, and now it is intended to achieve social care for ensuring effective quality and harmless blood products provided by the Republic of Croatia that the Ministry of Health as a competent authority is proposing to establish a single national system of reporting harmful and unexpected events and reactions related to the collection, testing of blood and production, storage and distribution of blood products that could affect their effectiveness, quality and safety. It is also proposed, therefore, that the register of serious adverse events and serious adverse reactions is conducted by the Ministry of Health, not by the Croatian Institute of Transfused Medicine, as it has been arranged so far as not to let us say the conflict of interest as it has been formulated. Therefore, it is also also important in terms of the control of these nine centres themselves, as Mr. Secretary of State said, in which the production of blood products is carried out, a responsible person who will be employed by the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine and who, with at least five years of working experience, will be provided. These are all the above mentioned things. Such a system is already present in the economy. They have controllers of various these control companies that in this way and that is certainly a further promotion in that part. It'll be in that business and expenses. Two thousand kunas are scheduled, so for next year. And I believe, therefore, other than this harmonisation with EU legislation that these amendments will further improve this important area. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79742	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79743	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. And we as representatives in this, at least in this term, I don't know about the one before, but we were able to communicate with you politely and normally, and in the context of clearly any opposition or positional possibilities regarding the representation part. So I've always been happy to communicate with you about any problem you've encountered, because we're from the same place, from the same profession. Well, here's when you've already told us and not to say a kind of commendation, so here we are to you in our own name and in the name of your club. Today is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Blood and Blood Preparations. The reorganisation of the Croatian Transboundary Service is under way according to the instructions on the implementation of the reorganisation, transfusion service, according to the Ministry of Health, social care since 25 March 2010 and according to the network of transfusion activities for blood and blood products, so the National Journal of 2010 is to be implemented in three phases. The first stage is centralization of blood collection, production of blood preparations and blood tests. The second phase is the centralization of serological testing of donor blood. The third phase is the introduction of a NAT blood test on the donor. The deadline for all three stages was 31.12.2010. Two regulations have been passed, Mr. Secretary of State, which regulates the work in transfusion activities, one refers to the work of blood banks, and the other to clinical transfusion medicine. What's been done according to all these plans so far? The Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine has spent part of its obligations, and the other centres have made a huge effort to comply with the existing legislation and have equipped themselves with decentralised funds mainly, and have made the funds that have come to them do what they can. So we have passed legislation, and there are no preconditions to do so, above all, financial preconditions, so only one part of these directives and these instructions of the Ministry of Health have been reached. And now that the Ministry of Health has made a decision and has therefore made certain instructions, this model does not correspond to our accession or to the European Union directives. Then why in the first place did we bring this model of transfusion service in 2010 and everything that goes on? More questions are being asked. Did the proposal, this legal proposal pass or was the opinion of the medical chamber requested? As far as I know, it's not. Furthermore, the Health Committee is most likely to have discussed this proposal, or was it not? It is. Are the funds provided from the state budget for the employment of new people in the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine? These 200 grand? Furthermore, would you or would you prefer to say, and literaryly, a superior who is actually coming from the ministry now, not from the Croatian Institute or the Croatian Institute of Transfused Medicine, be the person who can manage the hospital, to say to order or determine the purchase of materials, the schedule of staff work and so on? You don't know that either, so that relationship with the hospital's administration. Is the issue of blood production financing defined? I don't think this legal proposal is. Is the position of this person in the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine defined and what should this person do in hospitals, so her task in hospitals? He correctly counted the secretary of state that the institutions that serve and work on blood collection and distribution, the distribution of blood through the Croatian Institute of Transfusiological Medicine of Rijeka, Split, Osijek, clearly Varazdin, Slavonski Brod, Pula, Zadar, clear clinical centres of Zagreb, alone, I personally donated blood and I think I gave more than 20 times blood, and in the Homeland War the boat hospital, the Slavonski-ship hospital was the largest war hospital in Croatia, and the consumption of blood at that time was, but can only be measured on tonnes, not on doses, not on liters, but on tons of blood. And then we didn't have any special complications and there was never any blood missing. There's never been a blood shortage in the war. It was also clear that thanks to the enthusiasm of the citizens, the enthusiasm of the Croatian people, and that this donation was something that was completely common unlike today when I have often called for the Slavonski-ship hospital's transfusion service that since I'm 0 positive, blood 0 blood type, to come help and donate blood. This is if I hear an explanation or answer more closely to these questions that I have asked, not because I have studied this legislative proposal in detail, but because they are comments from the Transfusion Service, or transfusiologists working in hospitals and clinics. The legal proposal itself will be decided by the HDSSB club when the conditions are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79744	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79745	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So this is also another law that improves health care in the Republic of Croatia and my colleague Boro, I honestly don't understand what is so big, I didn't understand what is so worried about this law, because I didn't experience it that way. So I have experienced this law exclusively as a law that provides for additional standards of protection and quality, so in the process of collecting, examining, guarding, trafficking of human blood and blood components. So far, some activities, or activities related to security monitoring, the effectiveness of this transfusion medicine and the reporting of so on. The adverse events were within the jurisdiction of the Croatian Institute of Transfused Medicine. Now it's in a certain way I'd say even more stringent if we could say so and it's in the jurisdiction of the competent health ministry. So I don't see it here, I honestly don't see any problem, and I don't see a problem in particular, because now in every health institution that deals with these jobs, it's going to be about collecting, or keeping, etc. blood and blood derivatives, that will be one person directly from the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine and will be literally an active person, therefore an employee of the office. So I think this is just another column of quality assurance that we've talked about so much today. I do not understand, therefore, that Mr. Secretary of State is here, so he can explain it to us, but I understand only this law as a law that provides even more security in this very sensitive area. Because we know what blood is, which are its preparations. Here, therefore, as in all the other laws of boredom that we have spoken of my support and this bill, a law which I further say will ensure the safety of the health sector. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79746	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is Honourable Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79747	Thank you. I don't think you listened well to what I said, and I think we're on to the same intention. So, to make it truly good service and maximum good work and to benefit our patients and all those in need of blood and blood preparations. But I also have to say that what you didn't listen to me about, which is that I got and that I was informed by the transfusiological departments, the transfusiologist, and I asked the questions they're asking the secretary of state, the one I said. In fact, I even forgot to say something, and that's the question is whether it's a consulting profession or not. The Committee for Transfusion Medicine at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare. Apparently, the meeting of this committee was called for October 17th, so post-festum. And the law is here today on the 13th on the agenda and in the parliamentary debate. And the Committee for Transfused Medicine at the Ministry of Health has been convened in connection with this for October 17th. So now you tell me, did I have any particulars to say the right to debate and this is the way I've been discussing it? We're clear, again in the final, the ultimate goal is to make everything as good as possible. And one more thing, when you're already here to say it, I won't say it, I won't say it, I won't say it, I won't say it's in any way legally justified, given that I won't say it's a conflict of interest, that so, like former decrees, that a man from the Central Office of the Croatian Transit Service is delegated to these centers. Seems a little bit like this the old-fashioned way, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79748	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79749	I thank my colleague for this replica. I wouldn't really want to answer it here because it's really addressed to him and I accept your concern, but I didn't experience that someone would be delegated or what they would say in the army I don't know sent there, but I think they're going to hire that person, the new person, but they're going to be in status, so in a working relationship with the Transfon Medical Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79750	Thank you very much. And we have another replica, the distinguished representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79751	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Bagaric, and I don't share my concerns, and I don't share them for any more reason. One reason is that we have blood donations at a very high level. There are differences, of course, but now that we've started a little bit, my colleague Grubisic said I'm a donor. So I come from a community where the percent is 9%. 9% of donors are in my community, but let's let it go now. It's a very important moment that blood donation is very important. But, of course, in the professional section, it's going to improve here. So this system, I said, in some ways these doctors who are in processing facilities, who will be there, this system in the economy will sort of already work. And in that part of these days, we've heard many times about conflict of interest, potential conflict of interest, etc. This is therefore very, very much heard in the EU and is extremely careful. It's a very important moment. And the third thing, so this is about harmonising with EU legislation. And we certainly have to do that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79752	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79753	According to Article 209, a colleague named Milinkovic hates you as if I were a donor of blood, so you are constantly calling for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79754	Excuse me, what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79755	Yeah, well,
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79756	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79757	I said what article and don't make a fuss because I'm gonna get out of here and you're gonna talk to yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79758	Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79759	Don't talk, please. I'm entitled to an injury. You can't silence me.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79760	Thank you very much, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79761	Well, that's what you tell yourself, but I have a real breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79762	No, that's what I'm in charge of telling you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79763	I don't admit it to your court.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79764	Thank you very much. Sit down. That's right, yeah. Thank you very much. That's how we ended this part of the debate. On behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, pardon Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health and Social Care Ante Zvonimir Golem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, as I assumed, and that's why I'm in the opening statement and I'm saying that there's going to be possible thinking that's unclear, and that's why I've been trying to figure it out in maybe a simpler dictionary, and now I'm going to try to be even simpler because everything I've heard today in the debate is just going in that direction. First, clearly and loudly did not give up the reorganisation of the transfusion service in the way the plan was done, it was accepted as a national plan and this is in line with that plan. Secondly, what is now being introduced is not the introduction of any special novelty, something that is not known in Croatia, although in Croatia we already have such a system because the quality control system that happens in the economy is that way. Therefore, those institutions, those institutions that have a quality control system and where it takes 24 hours for the controllers to be present in the manufacturing process of the controller and know to whom it corresponds. Why is it going like this? Because if there is therefore a collection at the same time, I am talking here about collecting and processing blood where the institution responsible for it should have a responsible person, but there is a conflict of interest if it is the same competent person. So, the director of the health care facility is also responsible for the complete system of quality collection and control and on the distribution system, which is called blood transfusions, which the colleague knows very well. What we are now getting, that this same institution, everything as agreed in the transformation, is that the person responsible for the quality of the procedure is the person who is not the director of the institution, but becomes the competent Croatian Institute for Transfusion Medicine. This would be said in a very simple dictionary that people who have done so so far become employees of the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine, thus gaining that independence in the system and thus, conditionally speaking, will answer that quality. What would that mean in practice? if there is a problem with the production process, if a certain deficiency is observed, it will not issue a quality certificate and that blood cannot be used. Why does it matter? Exactly because of our voluntary donors. You are aware that we have and we have had a good system and we will have it and that we ourselves have determined many things that have been happening in the system and that it wasn't philosophical, you know about a few things that have been followed in public. We just want to strengthen and give that security to the citizens, and everything in line with the European Union directives. And in such a way, why I said clearly and loudly that the funds were not needed. No, they're not. Why? At this time, employees have their own salary, and that is the basic cost, on the agreement under this law that will be concluded between the institution where this process is taking place and the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine, will determine the place of work, working conditions, determine how much we call it, cost the institution that quality control, and on the other hand, that money that the Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine gets for this service goes to the salary of that employee who works there and who controls it. Therefore, it is a closed process and there is no fear, so neither does new costs appear, whether new employment will be needed. That I believe is not absolute. For what reason? For the reason that these people are doing work in institutions at the moment, and in the Law, we said that a health care facility would be authorized to have a responsible person. It must now provide the person responsible or staff of the Office. So, clearly and loudly, there is no big change on one side but there is a crucial and significant change only in that part that we have secured independence in that part of the control is one plus on everything we have in the transfused medical control system today, and we are not talking about the collection of testing and conduct, because you have to, and you know that today we have a new cause that is transmitted by blood, which is already being prepared for emergency tests in the whole world, there will need to monitor novelties, it will need to ensure Croatia's introduction and supremacy, therefore, these are things that will definitely strengthen the quality system in this amendment and supplementing the law on the one hand, I will explain, on this one hand to the European Union, which is by the directives and how the countries in our environment are already acting, which are members of the European Union and on the other hand will not only strengthen the quality system, and not only not only that it does not go away, I will explain, this is done for over three and a half months, this is how this is done, this is done, this new level of the new level of trust, which we are now, which we'll be made to the new level of the new level, which we's, which we are now, which we's, which we's, which we'll be made with the new, which we's, which we's, which we's, which we's, which we's are going to the new, which we's, which we's are going to the new. And I have to remind you, that's the way the division was welcomed, and that's why it will be accompanied by an IPA project in the area of blood, tissue and cell safety. Thank you. I apologize, Mr. Vice President, in order not to be misunderstood, I thanked the MPs but I would like to thank the staff of the Croatian Parliament for their cooperation over the years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79766	I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79767	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Blood and Blood Preparations was an emergency procedure of the P.Z.E. number 892. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Blood and Blood Preparations. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result is that this final bill was adopted unanimously by 77 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79768	Moving to point 11. - Final proposal for a law confirming the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 888. You received the proposal by post, on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent procedure. Article 159 is replaced by the following: The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, and by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. would the applicant's representative further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Barica Novosel State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79769	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia signed a contract on the protection of classified data. This Treaty lays down a legal framework for the protection of classified data common to be created or exchanged between the Contracting Parties, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract are to be designated, equivalent degrees of secrecy, treatment of classified data and obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data shall be established. Mechanisms for the transmission of classified data and provisions on classified contracts. In order for the contract to enter into force, it is necessary to confirm it by this law and is proposed to confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79770	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79771	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of a Law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the mutual protection of classified data. This Treaty will be supported, this Law will be supported by the law almost identical, I think this is the 7th or 8th Croatian Parliament has already passed 8 laws confirming contracts concluded between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the countries in an environment in Europe that regulates issues of mutual protection of classified data. During 2007 and 2008, Croatia fully regulated the information security area with several laws and sublaws, so the Data Security Act, the Information Security Act, the Information Security Act, the Information Security Measures Regulation, the Security Security Standards Regulation, the Data Safety Standards Regulation, the Data Safety Standards Regulation, the Organisation and the Safety Management Regulation of Information Systems and the Standards of Business Cooperation. This is how Croatia fully and fully regulated this matter in application within the Republic of Croatia. However, there is a need for an international exchange of information and material that is classified and marked by a certain degree of secrecy by national legislation. Of course, in international co-operation, it is extremely important to exchange such data for reasons of security problems, but of course because of the need for effective fight against organised crime, corruption, terrorism, that all crimes or certain activities that do not know certain limits and that international co-operation is necessary in the fight against them. In this respect, it is an international exchange and protection of classified data that has been generated as common data or protected data of a particular country under the agreement or contract. In accordance with these established standards and solutions in these regulations that we have stated, here we have before us the adoption of a law confirming an agreement signed in April 2011. Between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a framework for and rules for the exchange of mutual protection of classified data is established. Of course, as the State Secretary has said, to repeat that contract, a legal framework is established to ensure the protection of classified data generated jointly or classified data of a particular Contracting Party, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract, equivalent degrees of secrecy, treatment of classified data, obligations regarding national measures for the protection of classified data, transfer mechanisms and specific provisions on a classified contract. So it's the matter of this law. We can say that all these provisions are actually typical and that they are almost identically arranged in agreements and laws that we confirm these agreements in almost identical ways. Here is the confirmation of this contract and this agreement will become part of the internal legislation, and the exchange of data will then be arranged not only in the collapse of the Republic of Slovenia but in an identical manner will be arranged in the area of the co-negotiation state in this case of the Republic of Slovenia. Here is why effective implementation of security measures, cooperation in the fight against the most serious forms of crime and terrorism, the HDZ supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79772	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, distinguished and respected colleagues and colleagues. If I say a few, I'll get a heads-up from Vice President of the Parliament. In April of this year, a contract was signed between the governments of the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia, and today we are holding a debate today in order to vote and confirm it. This kind of contract or confirmation of the contract has been done already with 7 countries from our environment. But I have to say something about this material itself, something in this title says mutual protection of classified data. Unfortunately, in our near history in our time, we know for ourselves how certain classified data from the Republic of Croatia were delivered, how they were available to all those who should have been and who should not have been available. We also know that with the Republic of Slovenia very quickly silenced the capture of spies, even drunk at the Croatian-Slovenian border, etc. We still don't know and perhaps that's how the content was agreed in all the elements of the arbitration agreement between Slovenia and Croatia, and in connection with the trial agreement, I would like to say the judgment of the Savadria Vale. We know that the Croatian Government, or whoever was responsible, has allowed some foreign secret services to pull together to say this in Slavonia according to our phonograms according to our classified and not classified materials. I'm just saying this as a warning, it's not A.B.'s warning. Šimić rather than as a reminder that everything has happened in this recent history, so I hope that the confirmation of this agreement will at least protect this part of the classified data relating to the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79774	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. It is up to the distinguished representative Ivo Grbić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79775	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out that I support the proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the mutual protection of classified data. A number of legislative and sub-legislative rules have been adopted in the course of 2007 and 2008 to regulate the area of information security in a unique and comprehensive manner, thus establishing a basis for establishing professional standards for adequate regulation of the protection of classified data both internally and internationally. This need for an international exchange of information classified or marked under national legislation by one of the laws of defined degrees of secrecy stems from close foreign-political relations between states and an increased need for mutual and coordinated action to address modern, mainly security issues that often go beyond national frameworks with their complexity and comprehensiveness. By agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the mutual protection of classified data signed on 15. In April 2011, a legal basis was established in Ljubljana to ensure the protection of classified data common to or exchanged between Contracting Parties, whether it is a matter of establishing identical degrees of secrecy, obligations regarding national measures to protect classified data or to determine the competent authorities for the implementation of contracts, transfer mechanisms and treatment of classified data, arrangements for visits and meetings of experts, and procedures in the event of infringements, security as well as issues of costs incurred in the implementation of the contract. For the purposes of this Decision, and since the Croatian Parliament confirms the contract in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 140(1) of the Treaty. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and I support the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the mutual protection of classified data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79776	And distinguished representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79777	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, before us, there is an urgent process of the proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on mutual protection of classified data. So it's one of the usual and standard contracts that we've had in the parliamentary ratification procedure so far. Here's my colleague Lovrin said there were seven or eight of them. So they'll probably be followed by more in the next period. As indicated by the ratification of this contract in the Croatian Parliament, its provisions will comply with Article 140. The Constitution shall form part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the contract itself is concerned, he's signed 15. In April 2011, in Ljubljana, therefore, with the aim of ensuring the protection of classified data that is created or exchanged primarily between the parties under this Treaty, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as public or private institutions of the signatories, of course, in accordance with national laws or other regulations. Since the contract has already been signed and cannot be amended or supplemented at this stage of the procedure, so amendments and additions to the text will not, in my debate, refer to the details, therefore, which and the provisions set out in this Treaty. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm just going to do it again, and I'm going to point out what's being defined by it. Therefore, with the determination of national, security authorities, the degree of confidentiality of data, security principles, access, use and transfer of classified data, their multiplication, translation and destruction shall be governed by the way in which they visit each other for direct access to classified data, the conduct of parties in the case of violations of laws and regulations relating to the protection of such data, as well as ways to resolve any disputes. And here is the end, so this Treaty very precisely regulates the rules of mutual protection in the field of information security and the protection of classified data I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79778	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when they get the necessary conditions. This concludes today's session. Tomorrow we'll continue with point 12. Final draft law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 857. Thank you very much, and I wish everyone a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2011-10-13-0.u79779	We move to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on mutual protection of classified data, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 888. Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the mutual protection of classified data. Please, let's get involved and vote. The result? This final bill was adopted unanimously by 7 votes. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and counsellors. As announced we will continue the session of the 24th session with the agenda point - final proposal of the Law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 857 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Yeah. Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic, Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
